                        RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                 OCTOBER 12, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                      Staff:

Gary Cannon                                       Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                      Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Evan Matheson                                     Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Monique Mortensen
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

In the absence of Chair Jon Gilchrist, Commissioner Evan Matheson called the meeting to
order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Pledge was led by Commissioner Darren Park.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     MARX PRIVATE LANE, PLZ-23-2030, A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
              APPLICATION TO ADD ONE LOT TO A PRIVATE LANE TO BE LOCATED
              AT 11997 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD. APPLICANT - RYAN MARX.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is for
a Conditional Use Permit. The proposal was to add one lot to a private lane for property
located at 11997 South Redwood Road. Mr. Prestwich reported that the public hearing was
noticed to neighbors within 300 feet. Comments were received from two adjoining neighbors
asking for additional details. The applicant, Ryan Marx, is working with a realtor and
designer. Mr. Prestwich reported that approval is needed for the private lane to proceed
with a subdivision application. If the Conditional Use Permit is approved, there will likely be
a separate public hearing in the future to address the subdivision request from the applicant.

The subject property and the other two lots on the private lane were each zoned RR-22. Mr.
Prestwich reported that they were the last RR-22 Zone lots in the area. Properties to the
north, south, and east, were zoned R-3. Property to the west, along Redwood Road, was
zoned commercial. There is an existing home on the subject property. The location and
orientation of the home limits the options for future subdivision of the lot but there was a
desire to subdivide. A new lot will need to be positioned to the south, which makes it
necessary to use a short segment of the private lane to access the potential new lot. An
aerial image of the property was shared to better illustrate the challenges with subdivision.

Mr. Prestwich shared street-view images. He reported that the private lane is approximately
22 feet in total with 18 to 20 feet of pavement. If there are more than two users, the ordinance
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  2
October 12, 2023

calls for 25 feet of pavement. If there was a desire to add more users to an existing private
lane, the existing lane needed to be brought up to code.

The Concept Plan was shared. Mr. Prestwich noted that the subdivision was not being
formally considered at this meeting. The Commission was being asked to consider whether
the private lane proposal was feasible. He asked the Commission to consider whether the
applicant could expand the existing private lane to add one new home and if the applicant
could stub a new, short private lane to access a potential new lot. The Commission was
also asked to consider the following questions:

    • Does this qualify for a private lane?

           o A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property
              to construct a public street; or
           o It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically
              subdivided with public streets and that development on a private lane would
              not impede the extension of any adjacent public right-of-way either now or in
              the foreseeable future; and
           o The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining
              properties as required by the Master Transportation Plan.

    • What will the private lane look like?

           o One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width;
           o Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width;
           o Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only
             where the lane meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.

Staff believed the subject property was a lot of record that was preexisting and has no
frontage. Looking at the subdivision, it would still be considered preexisting with no frontage.
Mr. Prestwich explained that Staff believes that the request meets the three requirements
for a private lane. As a result, Staff believed it qualified as a private lane.

Mr. Prestwich wondered if the Commission was comfortable approving the expansion of the
existing private lane and adding the new stub. The new lane needed to be discussed
because of the layout of the existing home and the location of the proposed new residence.
Staff noted in the motion that the new lane would be 20 feet to accommodate two users but
the existing lane would need to be widened to 25 feet to accommodate the four users.

There had been communication with the two adjoining property owners. The next-door
neighbors, the Fisher Family, were part owners of the lane and also owned a 10-foot strip
along the north side. Mr. Prestwich identified the 10-foot strip on the zoning map, which was
shown in orange. The neighbors were not aware of the application before receiving the
notice but were willing to speak to the applicant about what was needed. There were no
objections to what was proposed. The other neighboring property, Denny’s Auto, was not
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
October 12, 2023

opposed to the development but did not have any land to give. As a result, if the applicant
needed to widen the lane, land could not be obtained from Denny’s Auto.

Mr. Prestwich believed the Fisher Family was willing to have a discussion with the applicant.
If a private deal could not be finalized, the item would not come back to the Planning
Commission. It would be tabled until an arrangement is made. If the Conditional Use Permit
was approved, the applicant could start working on those negotiations. He noted that the
applicant would need to hire an engineer and have some surveying work done for the
Subdivision Plat. The Conditional Use Permit would trigger a lot of future actions, including
speaking to neighbors about an agreement to expand the lane.

There were fire standards for turnarounds as well as code language related to the width of
private lanes and the locations where No Parking signs must be posted. Mr. Prestwich
explained that the requirements would come into play during the subdivision review process.
The Fire Marshal would look at everything to ensure that all requirements were met.
Mr. Prestwich shared the proposed motion language and reviewed the suggested
Conditions of Approval. He shared additional information about Condition #3, which was as
follows:

   •   Private lane shall be at least 25 feet wide paved, drivable surface from Redwood
       Road to the new private driveway and any further east as necessary to meet
       requirements for a fire turnaround as determined by Unified Fire Authority.

Mr. Prestwich also highlighted Condition of Approval #7, which was as follows:

   •   The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and emergency response.

Mr. Prestwich explained that the homes on the lane were addressed off of Redwood Road.
He believed there would be a desire for that to remain, with one additional address added,
but discussions would need to take place with the County and emergency response.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the additional property on the north side of the existing lane
was necessary for the lane to be expanded. Mr. Prestwich confirmed this. He stated that
the Fisher family let the City know that they own a 10-foot strip along the north side and were
willing to have a discussion with the applicant. He thought it was a good sign that the
neighbors were open to having those conversations. Commissioner Rushton wanted to
know if an agreement is normally finalized before the application comes to the Planning
Commission. Mr. Prestwich shared information about previous applications involving private
lanes. He acknowledged that this is an unusual situation, especially because the neighbors
were willing to discuss the land needed with the applicant.

Commissioner Rushton thought emergency turnarounds were normally considered ahead
of time but noted that they were included in the submitted documents for the Conditional
Use Permit. Mr. Prestwich explained that the Fire Department does not typically review
Conceptual Site Plans or anything conceptual in nature. He was not worried about the fact
that the applicant had not submitted anything conceptual as far as the emergency
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              4
October 12, 2023

turnarounds as this was not the time when that type of information is normally reviewed. He
recognized that there are some challenges on the site but working with the Fire Department
and an engineer would clarify how to proceed with the proposed project.

Commissioner Park was struggling with what had been submitted. He was not sure why a
Conditional Use Permit was being requested when acquisition of property was needed from
another property owner to move forward with the lane widening and turnaround. Without
discussion or an agreement with the property owner who needed to give up that property,
he was not sure the matter should be before the Planning Commission for consideration.
Commissioner Park felt those details needed to be resolved first.

Mr. Prestwich acknowledged that there are challenges with the site. With a subdivision,
there are a number of agreements and easements that need to be worked out. Those are
normally finalized after the Planning Commission Meeting. Some are crucial to development
and required beforehand. In this case, final approval was not being granted for the
subdivision as the request was for a Conditional Use Permit. As a result, Staff felt
comfortable bringing the application to the Planning Commission even though there were
still some unanswered questions. The Conditional Use Permit would allow the applicant to
start looking into the different options and start to move forward.

Commissioner Cannon believed the property to the east was one acre, which was confirmed.
Mr. Prestwich explained that each of the three lots shown is one acre in size. Commissioner
Cannon wondered what would happen if the other owners of one-acre lots wanted to
subdivide their properties in the future. He also noted that it was important to consider
whether the infrastructure underneath the pavement was adequate to take on another home.
Mr. Prestwich reported that each of the lots can be subdivided without doing any rezoning.
If desired, the property owners would need to come back to the Planning Commission for a
Conditional Use Permit for the private lane and go through the subdivision process. In the
case of the other two properties, the stub private lane would not be needed due to the
orientation of the site. All private lane requirements would need to be met to subdivide.

Commissioner Cannon questioned if there had been a Development Review Committee
(“DRC”) Meeting on the application. Mr. Prestwich said that there had been a brief
discussion about the Conditional Use Permit but no formal meeting on the matter.
Commissioner Cannon pointed out that the Fire Department would be present at a formal
DRC Meeting and clearly state what needs to be done to obtain approval. That would occur
during the next phase of the process. Mr. Prestwich explained that fire hydrants would need
to be considered. He did not know what the current fire hydrant situation is in the area and
noted that they could add significant cost to a development.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the applicant was required to increase the width of the
asphalt to where the property was subdivided or along the entire lane. Mr. Prestwich
identified the areas where widening was suggested in the motion language but noted that
the language also referenced any additional areas required by the Fire Department. If the
Fire Department felt that the full length of the lane needed to be widened, that would be a
requirement. The Commission could modify that Condition of Approval.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
October 12, 2023

Commissioner Cannon had walked the property. He stated that the location of the existing
home created a lot of challenges for the site. That being said, he applauded the lot lines
presented as that took a lot of creativity. He had seen some amazing things done on private
lanes. He pointed out that private lanes reduce the workload on the City because the owners
of the lanes are responsible for handling the maintenance. He stressed the importance of
having a Maintenance Agreement for the entire private lane.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the lane on the north property line of Denny’s Auto needed
to be fenced. Mr. Prestwich stated that it would not be required but it could be discussed
during the subdivision process. He reported that a written comment was submitted from
Denny’s Auto. A response was provided by the City to let Denny’s Auto know that if the
Conditional Use Permit was approved and the process proceeds, another notice would be
provided prior to the next public hearing. Commissioner Cannon encouraged some kind of
Maintenance Agreement, especially if the trees shown remain.

Commissioner Matheson asked about fencing on the north side. He wondered if there was
a future requirement for that. Mr. Prestwich explained that it would be discussed and
analyzed during the subdivision process. He noted that a rezone had not been proposed
for the subject property. If the property remains zoned RR-22 and there is not a masonry
fence between that and the R-3, it would trigger a masonry fence requirement. That being
said, the property is under two acres and would qualify for the conditional use exception that
specifies that existing fencing can remain on subdivisions on less than two acres.
Mr. Prestwich explained that there are provisions in the Code that address infill
development.

Commissioner Park reported that Commissioner Cannon brought up an interesting point
about infrastructure and the possibility of future subdivision requests in the area. He wanted
to make sure everything was sized correctly and that there is adequate capacity for hydrants,
water lines, and sewer lines. He asked what the plan was to ensure that all infrastructure
needs are met. Mr. Prestwich explained that there was interest in working with the residents
to make sure future use is contemplated. Staff cannot participate in negotiations between
the neighbors but could share information and be a resource.

Commissioner Park asked what would happen if the Fisher Family developed their space
fully. He wanted to know if there could be a situation where the private lane needs to be
developed wider than 25 feet. Mr. Prestwich explained that there is a provision in the Code
that specifies that if it is more than a certain length or has more than a certain number of
users, the Planning Commission could add requirements for the curb, gutter, sidewalks, or
additional width. That had been applied in different ways over the years, where sometimes
it is required and other times not. There was Commissioner discretion. Mr. Prestwich
reminded the Planning Commission that this would be a future discussion.

Commissioner Rushton asked to further discuss fencing between non-compatible zones.
He believed there was a requirement to have masonry between commercial and residential.
Mr. Prestwich explained that the subdivision would change the configuration and ownership
of the parcel. The fencing requirement would kick in for the entire parcel. Six-foot solid
masonry would be required in a certain location with an eight-foot fence in another section.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
October 12, 2023

As for the north side, he did not believe anything would be needed there because of the
lane.

The applicant, Ryan Marx, introduced himself and noted that his realtor, Annie Cannon, was
also present. Ms. Cannon reported that she assisted Mr. Marx with the purchase of the
property last year. There were discussions at that time about the potential to subdivide.
Mr. Marx currently rents out the residence and plans to sell one of the two. It was also
possible that a garage would be built on the property. The intention was to make the best
and highest use of the property. Mr. Marx reiterated that he will sell likely one of the
residences and keep the other and subdivision was desired.

Commissioner Rushton questioned whether Mr. Marx had researched the private lane issue
ahead of time. Right now, it seemed that he was requesting something that is not possible.
He pointed out that there needs to be an agreement made with the other neighbor.
Ms. Cannon explained that based on the conversations with the planners, it was not clear
beforehand that the private lane needed to be widened. They were told that the property
could be subdivided as it was already zoned for one-half-acre lots. Once the matter was
pursued further, the private lane was brought to their attention. According to South Valley
Sewer, the sewer is more than adequate. Mr. Marx apologized that there had not been
discussions with the Fisher Family previously. He was still trying to figure out the next steps
and how to best proceed. As for the need to purchase property from the Fisher Family for
the lane, he had only recently discovered this needed to be done.

Commissioner Park explained that the lack of contact between the applicant and the
impacted neighbors was of concern but he understood that this was a learning process. He
asked about the different requirements and if this was still considered a feasible project.
Mr. Marx noted that it was still to be determined. His preference was to try to work out the
issues. He was not sure what would happen with the fire turnaround but that would be
discussed further before a subsequent meeting. He reported that there were no concerns
with the sewer or the utilities. The main unanswered question pertained to the fire
turnaround and whether it needed to be on the stub lane as well.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing.

Dianne Fisher reported that her family owns the neighboring property discussed. Moving
forward it seemed that there was a need to work out a fire turnaround, utilities, and No
Parking signs. She questioned whether this meeting was the appropriate time to discuss
those matters or if it was better to work out those details before the applicant comes back to
the Planning Commission. It was noted that the requirements could be worked out at a later
date.

Commissioner Park noted that Ms. Fisher recently learned of the application. He wondered
how the family was feeling about what was desired based on what is known. Ms. Fisher
explained that the family is interested in having a conversation. No final decisions had been
made but the family was open to discussion.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              7
October 12, 2023


Commissioner Rushton did not believe there was a basis for an application because the
applicant did not have sufficient property to do what is desired. Without an agreement with
the other property owners, he was not sure that the application should be approved. It would
be possible to work out some of the details with the Fisher Family outside of the meeting.
Commissioner Rushton noted that there are still a lot of unanswered questions. Approving
something before there is any type of agreement did not seem appropriate.

Commissioner Cluff commented that the motion language states that the applicant needs to
obtain those agreements. If the Planning Commission denies the application, it would make
it more difficult for the applicant to work out an agreement with the neighbors. Things like
fire hydrants and fire turnarounds are not normally considered during this stage of the
process. As a result, she did not see a reason to deny the application. Commissioner
Matheson agreed with the comments shared by Commissioner Cluff that the motion
language covered some of the Planning Commission’s concerns. If the application moved
forward, those details would be discussed further at that time.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-23-2030
“Marx Private Lane”, to be located at 11997 South Redwood Road with the conditions:

      1.     The private lane shall follow the Riverton City Code for development on
             private lanes.

      2.     Approval is for one (1) additional lot access onto an existing private lane
             for a total of four (4) lots accessing the private lane.

      3.     The private lane shall be at least 25 feet wide paved, drivable surface
             from Redwood Road to the new private driveway and any further east as
             necessary to meet requirements for a fire turnaround as determined by
             Unified Fire Authority.

      4.     The new private lane shall be at least a 20-foot wide paved drivable
             surface.

      5.     The private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according
             to the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.

      6.     The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the
             standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
             Specifications.

      7.     The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and
             emergency response.

      8.     The private lane shall be signed with "No Parking" Signs as required by
             the Unified Fire Authority.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
October 12, 2023


       9.     The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall
              conform to Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not
              limited to width, number of driveways, and separation distance between
              driveways.

       10.    The private driveway shall be maintained by the homeowner, no City
              maintenance will be performed on the private driveway.

       11.    The applicant shall obtain any permissions or agreements necessary to
              expand the use of the shared private lane.

       12.    The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval from the Planning
              Commission prior to any construction commencing on the subdivision.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Park-Nay;
Commissioner Matheson-Aye; Commissioner Rushton-Nay; Commissioner Cluff-
Aye; Commissioner Mortensen-Aye; Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion passed
4-to-2.

       B.     PLAYGROUND SPECIALISTS, PLZ-23-2029, A CONDITIONAL USE HOME
              OCCUPATION APPLICATION FOR PLAYGROUND INSTALLATION
              SERVICES TO BE LOCATED AT 2326 WEST BLAZER CIRCLE.
              APPLICANT - CARSON ZENGER.

City Planner, Lisa Halversen, presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is
for a Conditional Use Permit for a Home Occupation, “Playground Specialists,” at 2326 West
Blazer Circle. The property is 0.25 acres in size at the end of a cul-de-sac with approximately
46 feet of frontage on Blazer Circle. It backs up to the Utah Salt Lake Canal. The applicant
was identified as Carson Zenger and the property is zoned R-4. All of the neighboring
properties were also in the R-4 Zone. It was noted that the applicant installs playground
equipment throughout the State of Utah. Some employees come to the home, leave their
vehicles there during the day, and take company trucks to the work sites. The application
was shared with the Planning Commission. The item has been on the Planning Commission
agenda in the past but was pulled off to work out outstanding details.

Ms. Halversen reviewed the application. According to the applicant, there are no employees
who work at the home but there are five that will come during the day to park. As for business
vehicles, there are two white trucks and a dump trailer used for the business. She shared a
copy of the notice that was sent to neighboring properties. Something that made this
application unique was the fact that the City heard back from almost every neighbor. Most
of the comments were in opposition, but some were in favor.

The applicant was requesting use of outside space for his business. There is a detached
garage on the property that the applicant uses half of for his business storage. The applicant
was asking to use much of his non-landscaped space for employee parking. Previously,
employees had been parking on the street. The applicant had gone to his neighbors to ask
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
October 12, 2023

for permission to do this. Some neighbors stated that this was acceptable but could not give
permission to do something that is not in the City Code. There needed to be compliance
with the City Code regardless of what the neighbors are or are not supportive of. Mr. Zenger
previously ran the business in another city. He had not been in Riverton for too long and
was unaware of some of the requirements.

Ms. Halversen shared information about the Fixed Standards. She explained that Fixed
Standards are not supposed to be changeable but the on-site employee language states
that only one non-resident employee may work at the home at one time. However, it also
stated that the Planning Commission may grant an exception to the requirement if there is
sufficient space to accommodate all of the vehicles and on-street parking is not necessary.
Mr. Zenger reported that it is possible to comply with that requirement. The next requirement
states that vehicles shall be screened and out of public view. That did not seem to be
possible on the site. Ms. Halversen shared information about how the vehicles would be
parked on the property. With previous Home Occupation applications, the Planning
Commission required that vehicles be screened behind a fence or a gate. She was not sure
how that would work here.

An aerial image of the detached garage was shared. It showed where the personal use and
business use would take place in the garage. The Parking Plan was shared. Ms. Halversen
reported that the plan was to use the driveway for personal use. There were four additional
spaces. Overnight, the work trucks would be parked on the side. The employees will come
to the site at 7:00 a.m. and the work vehicles will be pulled out and the employee vehicles
pulled in. While the vehicles are not parked on the street, it was not possible to screen them
from view. Images of the site were shared. Those images showed that it was possible to fit
employee vehicles there during the day.

Ms. Halversen shared the sample motion language and reviewed the proposed Conditions
of Approval. Condition #5 stated: “Business vehicles must be parked off-street and be
screened with a fence and gate. Fence must be installed before a Business License is
issued.” She explained that this was what had been done in the past, but the Planning
Commission had the discretion to change that or leave the Condition of Approval as drafted.
Condition of Approval #6 stated: “All business storage must be screened or enclosed.” The
first time she drove to the site, there was some playground equipment lying out in front of
the detached garage. The applicant had been made aware that those materials needed to
be enclosed or screened. There were previously some rubber mixers on the property, but
those had since been moved to a different location. Condition of Approval #6 stated: “No
business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.”
Ms. Halversen explained that a few of the neighbors indicated that employees had come
before 7am to begin work occasionally.

Ms. Halversen reported that the public comments received were linked in the Meeting
Materials Packet. She noted that there were several images of the site included there as
well. Commissioner Cluff referenced Condition of Approval #5. She wondered if the term
“business vehicles” was inclusive of employee vehicles or if there needed to be additional
specifications. Ms. Halversen felt the term accounted for employee vehicles but more
specificity could be added if that was desired by the Commission. Commissioner Cluff
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 10
October 12, 2023

pointed out that the Code states that 50% of garage space could be used for business. She
wanted to know if that division of use was verified in any way. Ms. Halversen explained that
the City trusts property owners to adhere to that division. That being said, there would be
follow-ups to ensure that there is compliance in the event a complaint is received.

The applicant, Carson Zenger, introduced himself and noted that there were a few changes
made to what had been presented. The vehicles are now parked in the side area and pulled
back. There had been some confusion about screening. He initially thought the screening
was for vehicles with logos, which none of his vehicles have. Mr. Zenger explained that it
would be almost impossible to install a fence in that location in a way that would still make
parking feasible. Mr. Zenger reported that he purchased the home to run the business from
there. He shared information about the type of work he does and the services he provides.

Commissioner Mortensen asked for additional information about the dump truck. Mr. Zenger
explained that it is off-site approximately 95% of the time work is taking place but there are
instances when it is not needed and will be parked on the property. He informed the
Commission that work is done year-round. Commissioner Cannon wondered if there was
another Business License currently operating at the property. Mr. Zenger did not believe
so. The previous owner might have had a Business License on the property but he was not
sure. He reported that his business was previously in Sandy.

Commissioner Rushton asked what happens on-site in terms of the use. Mr. Zenger
explained that the shed is mostly used for equipment storage. There is miscellaneous
playground equipment but full units are never delivered to the home. Some replacement
parts might be delivered from time to time. There is a lot in Bluffdale that is also used, which
is where the majority of the equipment is stored. Commissioner Rushton wondered why the
primary business was not operating out of that lot. Mr. Zenger explained that the Rental
Agreement was based on the equipment being stored there. There had not been any
discussions about storing employee vehicles there or having employees access the site.
The lot had been rented for approximately five years. He had traditionally stored the vehicles
at the home to keep an eye on those items and prevent theft.

Commissioner Park noted that Riverton tends to be business-friendly. If the application was
approved, he wondered if it would be possible for the applicant to meet the Conditions of
Approval listed in the motion language. He wanted to make sure the applicant can meet the
requirements proposed, especially in terms of screening the equipment. Mr. Zenger did not
believe it was possible to screen the area. There is a fire hydrant that splits the lot, which
creates issues. If fencing with a gate was added, he was not certain it would be possible for
the vehicles to access the site.

Commissioner Cluff reported that five employees come to the house and two business
vehicles. She questioned how many employees are in each truck. Mr. Zengler reported
that there are two crews, each with three people, however, one employee insists on driving
to each site separately. There are six total employees but only five come to the home.
Commissioner Cluff asked if it was possible to have only two employees come to the home
to bring the trucks to the site. Mr. Zengler believed this was something that could be
considered but was not something that had been done before. Commissioner Cluff asked if
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               11
October 12, 2023

the business is growing or if it is stable. Mr. Zengler explained that the number of employees
has not grown since moving into the home. Commissioner Cluff asked how many
employees would be too many at the home. Mr. Zenger believed an additional crew would
result in too many employees at the property. That being said, he did not plan to expand
the business beyond where it is currently.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing.

Martha Zenger reported that she lives in the subject residence. Part of the reason they
purchased the home was because of the land. It was intended to be used as part of the
business. All of the neighbors in the circle have approximately five vehicles parked along
their driveways, some of which include work vehicles. She was surprised that there are
screening requirements considering the many other neighbors with numerous vehicles
parked on site. While she understood that personal vehicles differ from business vehicles,
each home has four or five vehicles parked on the circle throughout the day. Putting in a
fence would impact their ability to move the vehicles in and out of the property. She pointed
out that other neighbors in the area were not being forced to screen all of their vehicles.

Ms. Halversen reported that several comments had been received from neighbors. The
opposition expressed was largely due to the vehicles that were previously parked on the
street by employees. She informed the neighbors that if the use is approved, no on-street
parking will be allowed, which alleviated a lot of the concerns expressed. Commissioner
Cluff asked if the Planning Commission has the authority to waive the screening
requirement. Ms. Halversen explained that there was some confusion due to the language
in the Fixed Standards. Even though the Fixed Standards are not supposed to be changed,
it stated that the Planning Commission has discretion. She felt that was something that
would need to be looked at in the future. Mr. Prestwich added that the Commission could
determine what the screening looks like. He shared information about previous applications
and some of the screening requirements.

Commissioner Park asked about equipment and material deliveries on the site. He
wondered if those would occur at the Bluffdale lot or the subject property. Mr. Zenger
explained that they would take place at the Bluffdale lot. The only things that would be
delivered to the home would be replacement parts, which would be delivered via standard
delivery processes. There was only one time that a commercial truck had come to the home.

Gord Butcher lives on the south side of the subject property. He noted that the parked
vehicles are well organized and nothing looks out of place. Several other homes in the
neighborhood run businesses with several vehicles parked in their driveways. Not all of
those configurations looked as good as the Zenger property. He did not understand the
reason screening was needed. Mr. Butcher did not have an issue with the business being
run there. As for the previous parking that had taken place on the street, it was not
something that bothered him.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 12
October 12, 2023

Commissioner Matheson wanted people to be able to run their businesses but certain
standards need to be followed. It seemed difficult to have that many employees and vehicles
coming and going from the site. He hoped the business could continue but thought it might
make sense to have it based out of the Bluffdale lot instead.

Commissioner Rushton moved to DENY the application.

There was discussion about the motion. Commissioner Park did not see a reason to deny
the application. He pointed out that the business would not move forward if the conditions
could not be met. If the applicant could meet the conditions and come into compliance, the
use could occur on the site. The way the approval was written, the applicant has the
opportunity to meet the conditions.

The motion died for lack of a second.

Commissioner Rushton expressed concerns about the scope of the business. It is a cul-de-
sac and that needs to be considered. Commissioner Park pointed out that no one will be
working in the residence itself. Commissioner Rushton stated that five employees will come
to the site and move work trucks in and out of the property each day. He felt this would be
a disruption to the neighborhood. The reason this came to the attention of the City was
because of ordinance complaints, so the scope of the business had already been
demonstrated that it was beyond what is reasonable. Commissioner Park reminded
Commissioner Rushton that the on-street parking issue had been resolved.

Based on the information that had been shared, it would likely be difficult for the applicant to
meet all of the conditions listed in the motion language. Commissioner Park believed the
applicant deserved the chance to make that happen. Commissioner Rushton pointed out
that the applicant did not believe the vehicles could be screened, so it did not make sense
to him to approve the application knowing that it would not be possible to meet the
conditions. He reminded those present that there had been complaints about the use.

Commissioner Cluff agreed with some of the comments shared by Commissioner Park. She
felt it made sense to provide the applicant with the opportunity to meet the conditions. Some
alternative conditions could be considered. For example, there could be a limit on the
number of employees that could come to the home at any given time. There could be two
employees permitted on-site to move the vehicles. She was also open to looking at different
screening options available to the applicant. Commissioner Cluff pointed out that for pre-
school use, there could be 12 vehicles coming to a location twice a day. That was far more
than the five cars coming to the applicant site twice a day. She understood that five
employees coming to a home was a lot for residents in a cul-de-sac. That was the reason
that she felt it was important to look at some other solutions.

Commissioner Cannon noted that one of the neighbors came to the meeting to express
support for what was proposed. He felt that should be taken into account as well. It had
been noted that there were other neighbors on the cul-de-sac that had a lot of vehicles.
Commissioner Matheson agreed with the comments shared by Commissioner Rushton. The
business was much larger than what seemed appropriate for the size of the lot on a cul-de-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                            13
October 12, 2023

sac. He hoped the applicant could continue his business, but the role of the Commission
was to maintain standards that would ensure that Riverton is a wonderful place for everyone
to live. He found it difficult to approve the application. The Commission needed to make a
decision rather than asking the applicant to make something work that would not.

Commissioner Park noted that there are two trucks and two crews coming to the site. Only
two drivers need to come to the home. To restrict the number of employee vehicles parked
there to two would reduce the use and make it more appropriate for the site. It would also
make it easier to screen the area as necessary. He thought the suggestion from
Commissioner Cluff, to limit the number of employee vehicles to two, made a lot of sense.
Commissioner Mortensen agreed with Commissioners Park and Cluff. She believed the
applicant should have the opportunity to make the site work for the use.

There was discussion about the motion previously made by Commissioner Rushton. There
was some question as to whether an amendment could be made to the motion to limit the
number of employee vehicles, which was denied. Commissioner Rushton stated that his
motion was to deny the application before the Planning Commission. He did not feel the
application was compliant. He noted that there is a difference between residential and
business use.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission DENY PLZ 23-2029,
"Playground Specialists," at 2326 West Blazer Circle due to the number of employees
requested, failure to demonstrative the ability to provide the required screening, the
scope of the business activities, and the neighborhood not being suitable for these
levels.   Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Park-Nay; Commissioner Matheson-Aye; Commissioner Rushton-
Aye; Commissioner Cluff-Nay; Commissioner Mortensen-Nay; Commissioner
Cannon-Nay. The motion failed 4-to-2.

Since the motion to deny the application did not pass, there was discussion about another
motion. Commissioner Park wanted to understand the number of employees who could be
at the property. Mr. Prestwich explained that one employee is permitted. Anything more
than that meant certain conditions would need to be met. It did not matter whether the
employee was coming and going or was actually working within the home. The Fixed
Standard was one employee and anything outside of that would be considered an exception,
which was something the Planning Commission could grant subject to stipulations. There
was additional discussion about appropriate motion language.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-23-2029,
“Playground Specialists”, at 2326 West Blazer Circle with the following conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
             applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
             Codes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                           14
October 12, 2023

      2.     The Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business
             License.

      3.     The Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other
             outside agency approvals.

      4.     The Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.     Business vehicles must be parked off-street and be screened
             (18.190.060.4.a.i, ii, 6) with a fence and gate. Fence must be installed
             before a Business License is issued.

      6.     All business storage must be screened or enclosed (18.190.060.10).

      7.     No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m.
             or after 7:00 p.m.

      8.     If a Business License is not obtained within 30 days staff will proceed
             with ordinance enforcement action.

      9.     Limit the number of employee vehicles to two.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Park-
Aye; Commissioner Matheson-Aye; Commissioner Rushton-Nay; Commissioner
Cluff-Aye; Commissioner Mortensen-Aye; Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion
passed 5-to-1.

      C.     RIVERTON FLEX EAST BUILDING PARK, PLZ-23-8015, A COMMERCIAL
             SITE PLAN APPLICATION FOR TWO OFFICE/WAREHOUSE BUILDINGS
             TO BE LOCATED AT 3751 WEST 12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT – STEVE
             MARX.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and explained that the application was for a
Commercial Site Plan and two-lot subdivision for "Riverton Flex East." He shared an aerial
image of the area. The project is a single-phase with two buildings to be built on
approximately 11.9 acres of vacant ground located at 3751 West 12600 South. The
applicant was Steve Marx, who also developed the existing flex-warehouse buildings near
12600 South and Old Liberty Way (4150 West). Mr. Prestwich noted that the property was
brought to the Planning Commission previously. He informed them that there was
something in the ordinance to state that loading docks could not be faced toward the road.
If they do face toward the road, there needs to be screening. There had been discussions
with the Commission previously about the direction of the loading docks. Mr. Prestwich
spoke to the architect and developer about them. Ultimately, the decision was made to face
Bangerter Highway, which he felt was a good choice. There would be screening there.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                15
October 12, 2023

Mr. Prestwich shared a rendering of what was proposed. He identified the location of the
loading docks and the screening. There was a desire to receive an easement from the Utah
Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) to clean up the corner area shown with landscaping.
The architecture proposed would be similar to the two existing buildings, but more elements
and additional architectural features would be added. This would increase visibility.
Mr. Prestwich shared the application and a copy of the notices that had been sent out to
properties within 300 feet. He reported that this was a standalone Site Plan. There would
be references to different buildings but all of the work would be done as one phase. The
plans had already been reviewed by the Fire, Engineering, and Water Departments.

The subject property for Riverton Flex East was zoned Planned Commercial Center (“PCC”),
which allowed for a wide variety of commercial uses. The proposed flex warehouse is
allowed in the PCC Zone. Everything surrounding the area is Regional Commercial (”RC”)
or SLR. Mr. Prestwich reminded those present that SLR could be residential or commercial.

With the application, a subdivision would be approved and two commercial lots created.
Each building will sit on its own lot but there will be cross-access, shared parking, and some
shared stormwater facilities. The City would ensure that everything is in place for the plat
recording and that it was documented properly. He shared the Site Plan. The parking was
exceeded as the project proposed more than double the parking required. All of the parking
stalls would meet the minimum parking requirements. Additionally, shade islands were
proposed and all of the drive aisles would meet the Fire Code.

Mr. Prestwich shared information about fencing. He reported that UDOT has a six-foot chain
link fence that would run through the UDOT area and the landscaping on the subject
property. The proposal was to remove a section so there would be visibility from 12600
South and Bangerter Highway. The chain link fence there would be taken out but the UDOT
right-of-way fence would remain. There was support to maintain the UDOT right-of-way
fence. Mr. Prestwich reported that there was one more difficult fence. On the south line
shared with SLR, there is an existing field fence just off the property line. The developer
wanted to keep the fence in place and have no fence requirement. Staff supported that idea
since SLR Zoning allows for commercial or residential use. If the property went to
commercial, there could be a requirement for cross-access. Delaying fence installation on
property adjoining SLR was consistent with some of the previous decisions made.

Information was shared about the screening proposed and the elevations on site.
Mr. Prestwich reported that the applicant provided documentation related to the landscaping
on the UDOT corner. The Traffic Study came in a little bit later than the rest of the plans but
called for the island that came at 12600 South to be extended to prohibit left turns from
12600 South down 4000 West and from 4000 West onto 12600 South. The Landscaping
Plan was reviewed. Mr. Prestwich shared information about building access and the
architectural features proposed. Staff was confident that what was proposed met the
requirements of the ordinance. He reiterated that the application was noticed for a public
hearing. No comments were received at this time. Staff recommended that the Planning
Commission approve the application. There were several Conditions of Approval outlined
in the example motion language provided.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 16
October 12, 2023

Commissioner Cannon was impressed by the proposed landscape improvements. He
asked about the Traffic Study that was conducted as he wanted to understand the volume
of traffic west of Bangerter on 12600 South. Mr. Prestwich did not have that data readily
available. There was discussion about the fence and the SLR area. Commission Park
wanted to know if the UDOT piece had been secured. Mr. Prestwich clarified that there was
not an easement but a long-term agreement that would allow the applicant to landscape and
maintain the area. UDOT was not willing or able to sell now, but the agreement was secured.

Commissioner Park asked about the bay doors along the west side. He asked how tall those
doors would be and if they would be able to handle semi-trucks with a standard semi-trailer.
It was reported that the smaller doors were the loading docks and were intended for full-
sized semi-trucks. The other sections shown would be suitable for box trucks that would
drive in and out of the warehouse. Commissioner Park asked if Staff believed the screening
requirements were met with the proposal and that the level of traffic in and out of the building
was appropriate. This was confirmed. There was additional discussion about the traffic
levels in the area and what was anticipated.

The applicant, Steve Marx, introduced himself and thanked the Planning Commission and
Staff for their feedback. Mr. Marx was excited about the project. A lot of time had been
taken to determine how to best orient the buildings and provide aesthetically pleasing
architectural features. This was likely the most expensive way to move the project forward,
but ultimately, the priority was to make sure the development looks good and is a benefit to
the community. Everything about the approach was done with a long-term vision in mind.
The screening, landscaping, and fencing were discussed. There would be a depression
right behind the fence. The building would sit a little bit down from 4000 West, which would
assist with some of the screening.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commission Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE application PLZ
23-8015 “Riverton Flex East” Final Site Plan and Subdivision with the following
conditions:

       1.     Site Plan Improvements and Building shall be consistent with the plans
              presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.

       2.     The Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

       3.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with the
              Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations
              of the Riverton City Engineering Division.

       4.     The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
              Management Plan according to Riverton City Standards and Ordinances.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                17
October 12, 2023

       5.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction grading on the site.

       6.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances, including International Building and Fire
              Codes.

       7.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

       8.     The building exterior finish, dumpster enclosures, and landscaping shall
              be consistent with the drawings shown to the Commission.

       9.     The rooftop mechanical shall be screened by parapet walls.

       10.    Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

       11.    Site fencing shall be installed or protected as shown on the plans. The
              solid Masonry wall along 4000 West may be installed after the building
              construction begins but must be completed before occupancy of the
              building is granted.

       12.    Site work and building construction may begin prior to the plat recording

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Park-Aye;
Commissioner Matheson-Aye; Commissioner Rushton-Aye; Commissioner Cluff-
Aye; Commissioner Mortensen-Aye; Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion passed
unanimously.

       D.     DWR LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS, PLZ-23-5007, A MINOR
              AMENDMENT TO SECTION 18.235.040(6) IN THE WATER EFFICIENCY
              ORDINANCE AS REQUESTED BY THE UTAH DIVISION OF WATER
              RESOURCES.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge, presented the Staff Report and stated
that the Riverton City Council previously adopted water efficiency landscaping standards for
development within the City. The standards were based on similar standards put forward
by the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District and others. Although the ordinance was
reviewed by the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (“JWVCD”) and the State Division
of Water Resources prior to adoption, both agencies recently contacted the City regarding
a deficiency in the ordinance that would impact residents in the City being able to qualify for
the State turf replacement funding as well as other funding opportunities.

There was a deadline given of November 1, 2023, to correct the deficiency and allow the
City to continue to qualify for funding. The affected section was 18.235.040(6), which
currently reads, “Turf or sod may not be used in park strips or landscaped islands less than
eight feet wide.” The requested amendment would change the word “islands” to “areas.”
The amended Code would read, “Turf or sod may not be used in park strips or landscaped
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              18
October 12, 2023

areas less than eight feet wide.” Staff recommended adoption of the amendment. It was
noted that this was a housekeeping matter and the intention of the ordinance would remain.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the City is working with the JVWCD on grant funding to change
out sod and handle other projects. The hope was that it would be possible to continue to
work cooperatively. He reiterated that the amendment was more of a housekeeping item
that would address the deficiency.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
ADOPTION of the amendment to Section 18.235.040(6), Landscape Design Standards,
changing the word “island” to “area”, as shown herein. Commissioner Mortensen
seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Park-Aye; Commissioner
Matheson-Aye;    Commissioner       Rushton-Aye;     Commissioner     Cluff-Aye;
Commissioner Mortensen-Aye; Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion passed
unanimously.

       E.    WILD ANIMAL FEEDING ORDINANCE, PLZ-23-5008, A PROPOSED
             AMENDMENT TO SECTION 6.05, LIMITING THE FEEDING OF WILD
             BIRDS OR FOWL TO CONTAINERS SUSPENDED OR OTHERWISE
             LOCATED A MINIMUM OF FIVE (5) FEET OFF THE GROUND.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and stated that the above item relates to a
proposed amendment to Section 6.05. The City Council directed Staff to prepare a proposed
amendment to Section 6.05, Animal Control, which would prohibit feeding of wild birds or
fowl, such as pigeons or ducks by placing or scattering feed on the ground. The ordinance
would allow for bird feeders as long as the feeders are placed a minimum of five feet off the
ground and located behind the front plane of a home. The proposed language included
standards for maximum feeder size, which allowed for standard residential bird feeders:

   •   “It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or distribute feed of any kind
       intended for or attracting to wild birds or fowl on the ground or other surface, or in
       feeders or other receptacles or structures placed on the ground or other surface.
       Feed intended for or attracting to wild birds or fowl may be placed in feeders located
       a minimum of five (5) feet off the ground, and such feeders must be located on private
       property behind the rear plane of the home and a minimum of ten (10) feet from a
       property line. Feeder capacity may not exceed 300 cubic inches. This language shall
       not be construed to prohibit feeding of legally maintained chickens, ducks, or other
       fowl, where allowed by zoning.”

A situation occurred where a property owner was scattering duck food in their front yard. It
began sporadically and then was occurring more often. As the individual continued to scatter
the feed more frequently, more ducks came to the property to collect food. There were also
issues with the feed spilling out onto the sidewalk. Several complaints were received about
the number of animals and the feed collected on sidewalks. The Animal Control Officer had
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              19
October 12, 2023

been working with the individual to try to mitigate the situation. Over time, this had become
a fairly significant issue. The Department of Health was contacted by neighborhood
residents and guidelines were shared to address feeding animals and not scattering food on
the ground. The Department of Health did not have any enforcement ability. As a result,
there were a lot of complaints and concerns but no real ability to enforce. The City looked
at different ways to address the situation that would not have unintended consequences.
Ordinances from other jurisdictions were looked into and many places restrict feed for wild
animals to feeders.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the feeder requirement seemed to be a good compromise as it
would allow people to have feeders but would help to address the potential issues related to
indiscriminate scattering of food. The proposed language was referenced. He explained
that the feeder capacity listed came from the Department of Health recommendations. It
was recommended that additional language be added to state that recreational or occasional
feeding by waterways or in public parks was acceptable. Staff tried to draft the language in
a way that would not be overly prescriptive but would address some of the existing issues.
One public comment was submitted to the City before the meeting, which expressed
concerns about residents not being allowed to feed birds in the public parks.

Commissioner Cluff asked about the placement requirements. She noted that a lot of people
have birdfeeders in their front yards as well. Mr. Lethbridge explained that the requirements
listed were in response to some of the uses that had been occurring in the City.
Commissioner Park agreed that a lot of people enjoy having birdfeeders in their front yards.
He was in favor of striking the rear yard only language but maintaining the five feet off the
ground requirement and the 10-foot property line requirement. Commissioner Rushton
noted that certain animals need to be fed on the ground. He wondered if the Animal Control
Officer could find enforceable actions, such as impacts on the neighborhood. Mr. Lethbridge
stated that Staff looked into different options. There was a desire to create ordinances that
are enforceable and measurable but not overly restrictive. For the most part, in terms of
nuisance ordinances, the City was reactive rather than proactive.

There was discussion regarding whether the use needed to be limited to the backyard.
Mr. Lethbridge noted that the Planning Commission could forward any recommendation to
the City Council. The recommendation should reflect what the Commission felt was most
appropriate. Commissioners discussed duck feeding in certain areas of the City.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
ADOPTION of Section 6.05.425, Feeding Wild Birds/Fowl, with added language to the
final sentence as follows: “…nor to prohibit recreational or occasional feeding by
waterways or in public parks,” as well as the removal of the requirement to only allow
feeders 5-feet off the ground in backyards. Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion.
Vote on Motion: Commissioner Park-Aye; Commissioner Matheson-Aye;
Commissioner Rushton-Aye; Commissioner Cluff-Aye; Commissioner Mortensen-
Aye; Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting          20
October 12, 2023


3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    None.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 9:15 p.m.
