                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                  APRIL 24, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Darren Park, Chair                               Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Monique Beck                                     Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                      Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Shelly Cluff                                     Matt Cassell, City Engineer
Crystal Keele
Evan Matheson
Troy Rushton

1.            CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

Bridger Taylor led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “BERGSTROM ESTATES 2ND AMENDED SUBDIVISION,” PLZ-23-1004, A
              RESIDENTIAL MINOR SUBDIVISION LOCATED AT 1933 WEST 11800
              SOUTH, ALSO KNOWN AS 11871 SOUTH BERGSTROM LANE.
              APPLICANT – KEVIN BERGSTROM.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is for
a two-lot subdivision of family property. The subject property was previously reviewed by
the Planning Commission for a Conditional Use Permit to add a house to a private lane,
rezoning, and a previous subdivision. The Zoning Map and aerial images were displayed.
The subject property is zoned R-4 and nearby properties are in the R-4 and RR-22 Zones.
An existing lane from 11800 South provides access to a home at the rear of the subject
property. The Applicant intended to subdivide the remaining lot and keep the existing house
at the front of the property. The new lot would be accessed via the private lane.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed the Subdivision Plat and Site Plan. The property will be split into
two one-quarter-acre lots. Some drainage issues had to be corrected, and improvements
would be required to the private lane to meet the current Fire Code. The Planning
Commission would need to consider fencing requirements as a six-foot masonry fence is
usually required between properties in non-compatible zones, especially between animal
rights and non-animal rights properties. However, Riverton City Code allows the Planning
Commission to make an exception for parcels that are less than two acres in size. Without
the exception, a masonry fence would be required along the south and west property lines.
The Applicant would like to retain their existing fencing, and Staff was in support of that
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
April 24, 2025


request. Mr. Prestwich noted that none of the adjoining RR-22 properties currently have
animals.

Notice was sent to neighbors within 300 feet of the subject property, and no comments were
received.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the
property to the south is owned by the same family. The properties will share the private lane
and fire turnaround, so it would not be practical to require a masonry fence between them.

The Applicant, Kevin Bergstrom, reported that it is a family lot and they want to build a new
house between the two existing houses. His sister lives in the home that fronts 11800 South
and his brother lives in the home to the south. Neighbors to the west and south do not want
a masonry fence between the properties and have signed waivers to that effect.

Bridger Taylor, the Applicant’s contractor, stated that the three property owners to the east
indicated that they did not want their backyards disrupted by the installation of masonry
fencing.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Bergstrom stated that his family
purchased the property in the 1960s, and he is looking forward to moving home.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-23-1004, “Bergstrom Estates Second Amended Subdivision,” with the following
conditions:

      1.     Subdivision lots and private lane layout shall be consistent with the
             plans presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise
             noted.

      2.     Applicant must apply for a Final Plat approval.

      3.     Final Plan and Plat to be reviewed and approved by City Staff.

      4.     Final Plat must be recorded with Salt Lake County.

      5.     Applicant must fix any outstanding Riverton City staff redline comments
             on the plat and plans.

      6.     The Applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
             applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                3
April 24, 2025


       7.     Private lane and turnaround must meet City and Fire Department
              requirements.

       8.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with the Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances and with the recommendations of the
              Riverton City Engineering Division.

       9.     The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
              Management Plan according to Riverton City Standards and Ordinances.

       10.    A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction grading on the site.

       11.    The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
              Fire Codes.

       12.    The private lane and utilities in the private lane are to be owned and
              maintained by the property owners. No City maintenance will take place
              on infrastructure outside the Public right-of-way or outside a recorded
              City easement.

       13.    Existing perimeter fencing may remain, and no fencing is required
              between Lot 202 of Bergstrom Estates Second Amended and Lot 102 of
              Bergstrom Estates Amended.

Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       B.     “DAI DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT,” PLZ-25-4001, A PROPOSED
              DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR APPROXIMATELY 5.63 ACRES
              LOCATED AT 12270 SOUTH 4000 WEST. THE AGREEMENT PROPOSES
              CHANGING THE ZONING OF THAT PROPERTY TO COMMERCIAL
              REGIONAL FROM R-3 (SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL, ONE-THIRD
              ACRE LOT SIZE) BUT LIMITING THE ALLOWED USE OF THE PROPERTY
              TO STORAGE UNITS. THE AGREEMENT ALSO PROPOSES LIMITING
              BUILDING HEIGHT TO TWO STORIES AND ADDRESSES OTHER SITE-
              SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS AND ELEMENTS. APPLICANT – KRISEL
              TRAVIS OF DAI UTAH.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the Planning Commission
previously tabled the application pending clarification on certain items. He noted that the
Notice of Public Hearing for the item included notice of the May 6, 2025, City Council meeting
where a final decision would be made. Aerial images were displayed. The subject property
is located between Bangerter Highway and 4000 West. The property was previously
subdivided into the McKenzie Estates Subdivision. A Subdivision Plat was recorded and
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
April 24, 2025


infrastructure installed, but no houses were built. That subdivision contemplated one-third
acre lots in the R-3 Zone with public streets.

The Conceptual Plan was reviewed showing storage units with perimeter parking and no
setbacks at Bangerter Highway and on the southern property line where there are existing
storage units. There will be landscaping in front of the development. The use will be limited
to a storage facility with outdoor vehicle storage. Mr. Prestwich noted that outdoor vehicle
storage is allowed in conjunction with another approved use. Storage units and parking will
be constructed in the first phase.

The Applicant requested that the existing fencing at the Latter-Day Saints (“LDS”) Church
property be allowed to remain. Units will act as the perimeter wall on the south property line
and eight-foot masonry fencing would be constructed in other areas. The C-R Zone allows
buildings of up to 80 feet in height, however, the Applicant agreed to limit the height to two
stories. He feels that the proposed design is complementary to the residential character of
the neighborhood.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the Planning Commission was reviewing preliminary elevations
and architectural elements on the Preliminary Site Plan and the Final Site Plan would be
considered at a later time. The Materials Board was reviewed, indicating split- and smooth-
faced Concrete Masonry Unit (“CMU”) block. The north end of the southern building will be
two stories tall. The development is entitled to a pole sign, but in lieu of a pole sign on
Bangerter Highway, the Applicant requested tower signage on three sides of this building.
Regular signage as allowed by code would be on the northern side of the property.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the Planning Commission previously discussed potential traffic
issues on 4000 West. The Applicant has since presented an amended Traffic Study
completed by Hale Engineering which indicates that turn lanes are not necessary. The City
Engineer reviewed the updated study and agreed with their findings.

Typically, commercial pads abutting residential properties require a five-to-10-foot buffer.
The applicant proposed the removal of that requirement on the north, east, and south
property lines. They reached an agreement with the residential property owners and will be
installing an eight-foot masonry wall between the properties. The applicant also requested
a reduced setback of 36 feet instead of the required 40 feet between buildings B and E.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the
LDS Church property is zoned commercial, and masonry fencing is not required along that
property line. Commissioner Rushton asked if the Fire Department could access all storage
units in the development. Mr. Prestwich stated that the Conceptual Plans were reviewed by
the Fire Department, and the Preliminary Site Plan reflects changes based on its feedback.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the Development Agreement proposed any deviations from
side setbacks. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that with the exception of the proposed 36-foot front
setback, all other setbacks comply with zoning requirements.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
April 24, 2025


Commissioner Matheson asked about the reason for the smaller front setback.
Mr. Prestwich stated that he believed it was requested to accommodate the Applicant’s
preferred floor plan. In response to a follow-up question, he confirmed that the Fire
Department had reviewed and approved the Preliminary Site Plan.

Chair Park referred to the proposed tower signage on Bangerter Highway and asked how it
would affect the existing home in that area. He also inquired as to how onsite drainage
would be handled if the existing City detention pond was removed. It was clarified that
drainage will be handled onsite.

The applicant, Joe Salisbury from DAI Utah stated that they are excited to bring the new
storage project to Riverton. It will be an investment of over $14 million. Their research
indicated that there are seven Towne Storage locations within a three-mile radius of the
subject property. Extra Space Storage will be the project management company, and there
is only one other Extra Space Storage within that radius. There are no similar facilities to
the north, east, or southeast. Mr. Salisbury stated that the companies cater to different
clientele. Their units are more expensive than the competitor’s because they are nicer and
offer more options. Their research indicates that equilibrium along the Wasatch Front is
approximately 7.5 square feet per capita within a three-mile radius, and the new facility will
bring that number to 7.48 square feet. DAI Utah commissioned market studies from Bear
River Storage Consulting, Self-Storage 101, and Extra Space Storage, all of which
confirmed the project’s viability.

Bear River Consulting rated the site 8 of 10 and stated the following:

   •   The current area demand for the population in a three-mile range supports the
       continued need for storage.
   •   Competitively priced drive-up and climate-controlled units are most sought after by
       the average renter.
   •   Having a recreational vehicle (“RV”) parking option is also desirable.

Self-Storage 101 rated the site A- due to:

   •   The location has good visibility and access from moderate- to high-traffic count
       roadways.
   •   The proximity to residential customers.
   •   The lack of competition in close proximity to the east.
   •   The potential for population drive-by opportunities.

DAI Utah performed the same type of analysis prior to constructing its storage facility next
to Point of the Mountain Storage, and both properties have maintained 95% or higher
occupancy.

Mr. Salisbury reported that 32% of units will be climate-controlled indoor units. There will
also be 66 RV, boat, or trailer storage stalls to cater to residents of Daybreak and similar
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
April 24, 2025


neighborhoods. As a new facility, it will have state-of-the-art security features, and rental
kiosks will be available for 24-hour access. The full-time resident manager will live in an
apartment above the office. Phase 1 is expected to have 24% less traffic than the previously
planned residential subdivision, and completion of Phase 2 would result in approximately
the same amount of trips as the subdivision.

Mr. Salisbury also owns Candlelight Homes and has incorporated design elements used on
the homes into the design for the storage facility. The modern farmhouse look will help the
facility better fit with the neighborhood. He reviewed the facades and noted that the side
elevations would also include shed roofs, natural wood beams, and window grids. He
clarified that the building facing Bangerter Highway would be 41 feet tall, and the peak of
the building facing 4000 West would be 36 feet in height. The storage units would be a
maximum of 10 feet.

With regard to the exceptions, Mr. Salisbury stated that the LDS Church property has a 10-
foot landscaping buffer on their side of the masonry wall, and he believed it would be
wasteful to add another buffer against the solid wall. The neighboring residential property
owners also agreed to the exception, as there will be a solid concrete wall between the
properties. The decreased setback is necessary to accommodate a required four-foot
landscape buffer on the front of the facility. Regarding signage on the building facing
Bangerter Highway, he reported that there would be more signage than allowed without the
exception, but it would be within the allowed square footage, and there would not be a pole
sign. Stormwater retention will be handled on-site, and the plan will be approved by the City
Engineer prior to construction.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Salisbury confirmed that the
tallest building will be 41 feet and the storage buildings in Phase 1 would be 10 feet high. If
there is a demand for more storage when Phase 2 is constructed, they may consider adding
a second story at that time. However, the agreement with Lyman Dutson, a neighboring
property owner, requires his permission prior to constructing any two-story buildings.
Commissioner Rushton noted that section 5.9 of the Development Agreement provides for
a maximum height of 32 feet. Mr. Prestwich reported that the Development Agreement
specifies that, excluding the office building and signage tower, nothing over one story or 16
feet from finished grade is allowed in Phase 1. No storage building in the project shall
exceed two stories or 32 feet from the finished grade of the respective building. City
Attorney, Ryan Carter stated that the inconsistency in the Development Agreement would
need to be corrected.

Commissioner Rushton asked if development would be allowed up to the existing church
fence. Mr. Prestwich stated that the parking lot will extend to the solid masonry fence, and
they will ensure that the area is properly graded.

Commissioner Cluff asked if there was a conflict regarding having a residence on a
commercial property. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the apartment for the resident manager
would be allowed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   7
April 24, 2025


Chair Park thanked Mr. Salisbury for bringing a well-thought-out design back to the Planning
Commission. Mr. Salisbury stated that they heard the Commission’s previous concerns and
made sure to respond to them with the updated design.

Commissioner Matheson asked if the tower along Bangerter Highway was functional or just
a tower for the sign. Mr. Salisbury stated that its purpose is to create a farmhouse feel for
the property and provide signage. It will sit above a 10-foot storage unit, but there will be no
usable space inside the sign tower.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Matt Yore stated that his primary concern is traffic. He is not opposed to business but he
was concerned that approval would set a precedent for development across the street from
the subject property. At 5:20 p.m., traffic at the intersection was backed up to the medical
building beside the existing storage facility. He believes that the City needs to consider
whether the intersection can handle more traffic from any source. People will be backed up
waiting to turn into the facility towing boats and large motorhomes, and he was concerned
that vehicles would make their own lane to go around them.

Bob Kummer lives on Swensen Farm Drive, which is near the proposed facility. His security
camera counts vehicles and it registers 1,200 to 1,500 cars per day. He asked the Planning
Commission to consider that there are a lot of children in the area. The storage facility on
the east side of the Mountain View Corridor is considerably larger than the proposed facility,
and he did not believe it was included in the feasibility study.

Ross Herzog reported that when he moved to Riverton in 2000, he was told that nothing
smaller than one-half-acre lots would be allowed on the west side of Bangerter Highway.
He asked if the Planning Commissioners would like to live across the street from a storage
facility. There is no curb or sidewalk in the area and he does not believe there is enough
room to safely access the facility with a boat or RV. People who live across the street from
the subject property have a view of the mountains, and the facility will take that away from
them. He did not believe it was fair to residents to allow the facility.

Kim Yore has lived north of the property on 4000 West for six years. She walks the
neighborhood daily and has seen traffic increase dramatically due to commuters. She
believes the Planning Commission should ask themselves how rezoning the property from
residential to commercial would affect residents’ quality of life.

Andrea Soper stated that she lives across from the LDS Church and asked how they will be
able to exit their neighborhood if a turn lane is not required for the facility. The neighborhood
is between 11800 South and 12600 South, and commuters use those roads to travel to
Herriman. Egress is already very difficult, and she believes the Planning Commission should
consider how the facility would affect residents. She also does not believe it should be
allowed to have 24-hour access.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
April 24, 2025


Rachelle (indecipherable) lives in Swensen Farms and agreed with her neighbors. Her
primary concern was that traffic be addressed regardless of what is built on the property,
because she was told at a City Council meeting that 4000 West would never be widened.
She sat through four light changes to turn from Pasture Road onto 12600 South that day.
She believes Swensen Farms has become a cut-through for commuters, which creates
safety issues for neighborhood children.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Park remarked that a lot of the traffic currently cutting through the neighborhood is due
to the construction on 11800 South. He asked Staff to address the concerns expressed by
residents.

City Engineer, Matt Cassell stated that the Traffic Study completed on the subject property
indicated that it would not generate more trips than the previously planned subdivision.
Currently, 13400 South is partially closed, and 11800 South is under construction. City Staff
met with the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT") earlier in the day to discuss 12600
South and its future transfer to the State. Once 11800 South and 13400 South are open,
some traffic issues should be alleviated. However, traffic will continue to be a problem on
12600 South. UDOT intends to widen it to seven lanes and anticipates a future widening to
nine lanes by 2050.

The City is in the process of updating its Transportation Master Plan to determine areas of
need. Regarding 4000 West, there is some existing data from the Wasatch Front Regional
Council (“WFRC”) and UDOT. In 2019, there were 6,672 average daily trips on 4000 West.
By 2050, they anticipate 9,000 trips. Per the current Transportation Master Plan, a local
street can handle up to 10,000 trips per day. A minor collector can handle between 12,000
and 15,000 trips per day. Both are two-lane roads. A major collector or three-lane road can
handle 17,000 to 26,000 trips per day. Current data does not indicate a need to increase
the width of 4000 West. They have to consider the City as a whole and determine where
they can best solve problems. The City’s goal is access management so residents can
travel where they need to without 12600 South being the only option to do so.

Chair Park asked if trailers and RVs entering and exiting the subject property will be a
problem. Mr. Cassell stated that the access must be designed so that long vehicles can turn
correctly and quickly. That requires adequate approach width, not a turn lane.

Commissioner Matheson asked how future development of the farmland could create the
need to widen 4000 West. Mr. Cassell stated that the UDOT and WFRC data shows that
4000 West will have a connection by 2050, but at that time they only indicate an increase to
9,000 trips per day. Mr. Carter reported that more than one connection will be developed.
4150 West/Old Liberty Way is planned to be a large road and already has a signalized
intersection. That road stubs into the farm and will likely be the primary access point for
traffic entering any future subdivision on that parcel.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
April 24, 2025


In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Cassell reported that the final scope has
been completed and they are ready to begin work on the Transportation Plan update. The
first step will be to determine the City Council’s goals so they can be incorporated into the
update.

Mr. Carter stated that it is understandable to want to consider the regional status of traffic
when reviewing any new project, but he believed the most relevant piece of information for
the Planning Commission was at the beginning of Mr. Cassell’s presentation: The traffic
study shows no material difference between the traffic generated by this project and what
would have been generated if the approved Subdivision Plat had been developed. He
pointed out that storage facilities generate fewer trips per day than most other commercial
uses and generally capture local traffic, not regional.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that a
public hearing would be held on the item at the May 6, 2025, City Council meeting.

Commissioner Cannon stated that 25 years ago, Swensen Farms was a field. He was sure
that at the time, residents were concerned about increased traffic from the new subdivision.
Unfortunately, there is a lot of construction within a two-mile radius of the subject property,
which affects residents of the area. The property was entitled to one-third acre lots during
a bad economy, and the current application was the third or fourth time the Planning
Commission had considered a new Use for the property. The homeowners who live
adjacent to the property are in favor of the project because it is the highest and best use for
the property.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-4001, “DAI Utah Development Agreement,” for
property at 12270 South 4000 West, amending zoning from R-3 to C-R and approving
preliminary site and design drawings, with all terms and conditions of the
Development Agreement as shown, with the following modification:

       1.     Section 5.9 of the Development Agreement be clarified to stipulate the
              maximum building height of the tower and office building.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Carter clarified that the
modification indicates that Staff will correct any inconsistencies in the Development
Agreement. The exhibits indicate higher building heights than the current written language
of the agreement.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Matheson-Yes, Commissioner Beck-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-Yes, Chair Park-
Yes, Commissioner Cluff-Yes, Commissioner Keele-Yes, Commissioner Cannon-Yes.
The motion passed unanimously.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
April 24, 2025


       C.     “WESTERN SPRINGS MASTER SITE PLAN, CUP,” PLZ-24-8021, A
              COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT TO
              INCLUDE A DRIVE-THRU FOR PROPERTY LOCATED AT 4623 WEST
              12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT – JAKE FINLINSON.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the item was continued from the
April 10, 2025 meeting due to uncertainty about whether a public noticing requirement had
been met. Public notices were sent prior to the last meeting. No citizens spoke at the public
hearing, and no calls or other comments had been received regarding the item. Zoning and
aerial maps were displayed. Mr. Prestwich showed the Development Agreement for the
project that was adopted in 2000 between Riverton City and Perry Homes. Western Springs
is almost entirely developed, with the subject property being the only undeveloped
commercial parcel.

The Site Plan was reviewed. There will be four individual pad sites. Each site will have a
drive-through, which requires a Conditional Use Permit. All drive-thrus have adequate
stacking and landscape buffers and Staff identified no additional conflicts or concerns that
would be created by the drive-thrus. The subject property is surrounded by other
commercial and vacant properties and a potential future school to the south. The site will
have two access points from 12600 South. Full access to 4570 West is shared with Big-O
Tires. Mr. Prestwich noted that Herriman City has required an island on 12600 South to
prevent left-in access.

The Phasing Plan was reviewed indicating that Phase 1 will include backbone infrastructure
and widening of the shared access road. An Architectural Plan had not been submitted, so
architectural details would be reviewed with individual Site Plan submittals.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the Western Springs
Development Agreement does not extend east of 4570 West.

Commissioner Rushton asked about public notice requirements for the item. Mr. Prestwich
stated that direct notices were sent four weeks prior to the meeting. Staff determined that
there may have been an error with the State noticing website prior to the April 10, 2025,
Planning Commission meeting, and the new meeting date was then properly noticed on the
website. All noticing requirements had been met. In response to a follow-up question, Mr.
Prestwich clarified that the agenda must be posted 24 hours prior to a meeting, and that
requirement was also met.

Commissioner Rushton reported that City Code specifies that notice of a Site Plan review
must be posted on the City website 10 days prior to a public hearing. Mr. Prestwich stated
that the notice must be posted 10 days in advance, not the agenda or Site Plan. Mr. Carter
clarified that the entire Site Plan would not be posted on the City website 10 days in advance.
The public notice states that the Site Plan will be contemplated at a specific time and
location, but it does not specify what the Site Plan entails. Commissioner Rushton read
Riverton City Code § 18.215.050(3) regarding noticing requirements. Mr. Carter stated that
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               11
April 24, 2025


the notice posted on the City website would be the same notice mailed to property owners
within 300 feet of the subject property.

Lisa Halversen, planner, clarified that the notice is posted on the City website as a separate
public notice, not as part of the agenda. The agenda is not posted until 24 to 48 hours prior
to the meeting. They are separate items that are listed in separate areas of the website.
Mr. Carter asked Ms. Halversen to provide Commissioner Rushton with a link to the public
notice page of the City website where meeting schedules, agendas, and public notices are
located.

The applicant, Jake Finlinson stated that he had submitted a Master Site Plan application,
as well as a Final Site Plan for one building pad. Users had not been identified for the
remaining three building pads. In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff,
Mr. Finlinson indicated that a Starbucks will be constructed on that pad.

Chair Park asked if the applicant had a timeline for development of the remaining building
pads. Mr. Finlinson stated that Starbucks would be the anchor tenant and they anticipate
more interest after ground is broken for that building.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Carter stated that he forwarded
a link to the public notice portion of the website to the Commission. He had checked and
the public notice was posted and is in compliance with City Code.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-24-8021, Commercial Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit for “Western Springs
Commercial Master Site Plan,” to be located at 4623 West 12600 South with the
following conditions:

       1.     A Final Plan for each phase shall be reviewed by Staff and approved by
              the Planning Commission before construction may begin.

       2.     Architecture and landscaping shall meet Riverton City requirements and
              will be reviewed during each Final Plan application.

       3.     The Phase 1 Final Plan must include the shared infrastructure, traffic
              control measures in 12600 South, and the proposed Subdivision Plat.
              The Subdivision Plat must be recorded before Building Permits may be
              issued for any other phase.

       4.     An agreement shall be formalized and recorded with the Phase 1 Final
              Plat for Shared Access, Cross Access, shared parking, and maintenance
              of shared landscaping, utilities, and storm drainage facilities.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              12
April 24, 2025


      5.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with the
             Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations
             of the Riverton City Engineer.

      6.     The site, utilities, and structures shall comply with any and all applicable
             Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, including the International
             Building and Fire Codes.

      7.     Proposed Final Plans which introduce buildings or uses different than
             indicated on this Master Site Plan, may be required by the City Engineer
             to complete additional engineering studies.

      8.     Proposed uses that are substantially different from this plan may be
             required by City Code to obtain a Conditional Use Permit.

      9.     The property owners will be responsible for irrigating and maintaining
             the park strips along their 12600 South and 4570 West frontages.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     “WESTERN SPRINGS PHASE 1,” PLZ-25-8007, A FINAL COMMERCIAL
             SITE PLAN FOR A RETAIL PAD IN THE WESTERN SPRINGS
             COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISION LOCATED AT 4623 WEST 12600 SOUTH ON
             APPROXIMATELY TWO ACRES. APPLICANT – JAKE FINLINSON WITH
             PERRY CONSTRUCTION.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and reviewed the Vicinity Map and Subdivision
Plat. Backbone infrastructure on the south side of the parcel is in shared easements, and
there are also shared access and cross-access easements within the subdivision. The
shared access with Big-O Tires will be expanded. Landscaping and a six-foot masonry
fence will be installed along the south property line. Park strips along 12600 South and 4570
West are already in place, which will continue to be maintained by the adjoining property
owners. The island will be installed on 12600 South in Phase 1.

The Site Plan was reviewed. There will be a 10-foot buffer between the drive-through and
property line, and a shared drive approach will be installed. The Landscape Plan indicates
that both the site and south property line will be landscaped during this phase, including
trees to provide a buffer between the property and the future school. Mr. Prestwich stated
that he was encouraged to see that the backbone infrastructure and landscaping would be
put in place during this phase, as it should spur interest in developing the other three pads
quickly. Other recent multi-tenant projects chose to delay the installation of shared
landscaping, which made the sites appear unfinished and may have been a factor in their
problems finding other tenants.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   13
April 24, 2025



Mr. Prestwich reported that the City Council had continued consideration of the Architectural
Standards update pending receipt of additional information about glass and other items.
However, Mr. Prestwich believes that the site meets both sets of standards. The property
does not have a clock tower, but it does have three required elements. It will have brick
accent siding and columns, and metal canopies have been routinely accepted as
architectural elements. The design meets all hard surface requirements. The rear of the
building faces 12600 South. The exit door and ground-level mechanical equipment will be
screened with high-end fencing, as will the rooftop mechanical equipment.

Businesses in the development will have individual monument signs, which will be approved
at the Staff level. As this property is on the corner, it is possible that it will have signage on
both 12600 South and 4570 West.

Chair Park asked if the property to the south was already zoned for a school. Mr. Prestwich
reported that it is zoned for a park. The City traded the land with the school district. The
State allows schools in any zone, so the potential school would not come before the Planning
Commission prior to construction. In response to a follow-up question regarding fencing,
Mr. Prestwich stated that City Code specifies eight-foot masonry fencing between residential
and commercial development, but it does not address parks or the intended use of a school.
Schools normally install chain-link fencing, but they may accept the six-foot masonry fence
proposed by the Applicant. He deferred to the Planning Commission on that item.

Commissioner Cannon stated that a typical Starbucks is on a 2,500-square-foot pad and
asked if the larger pad would be a next-generation Starbucks. He also asked if the site was
overparked as 40 parking stalls seemed excessive, and if the property would be leased or
purchased.

Mr. Finlinson clarified that the building footprint will be approximately 2,300 square feet.
They understand that the site is overparked. They are unsure of the future uses of the other
pads and will utilize shared parking across the site, so the extra parking stalls will
accommodate that future shared parking. Starbucks will be leasing the site.

Commissioner Rushton stated that there is a lot of housing to the north and west of the site
and asked if pedestrian pathways were discussed during the traffic review. He also asked
about the possibility of installing a pedestrian bridge across 12600 South. Mr. Cassell
reported that the Active Transportation Master Plan will be updated as part of the
Transportation Master Plan. The old plan looked at connecting bicyclists and pedestrians
regionally, and the update will consider ways to ensure that people can comfortably walk
and cycle in the City.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-25-8007, “Western Springs Commercial Phase 1,” a Final Site Plan located at
4599 West 12600 South, with the following conditions:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                       14
April 24, 2025


      1.    This Final Plan shall comply with the terms and conditions approved with
            the Master Site Plan.

      2.    Site Improvements and the Building, including the exterior finish,
            dumpster enclosures, landscaping, and all other improvements shall be
            consistent with the plans presented to the Planning Commission except
            where otherwise noted.

      3.    Rooftop mechanical shall be screened from view.

      4.    Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

      5.    The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
            City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
            Fire Codes.

      6.    Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

      7.    Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with
            Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations
            of the Riverton City Engineering Division.

      8.    The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
            Management Plan according to Riverton City Standards and Ordinances
            prior to receiving building occupancy.

      9.    A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
            construction grading on the site.

      10.   The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

      11.   This site relies on shared improvements, and easements as shown on
            the plans for this application, and the previously approved Master Plan.
            Riverton City may withhold occupancy of the building on this site if the
            offsite, shared, and backbone infrastructure is not complete and the
            subdivision plat is not recorded.

      12.   Property owner to maintain the adjoining park strips on 12600 South and
            4570 West.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.            The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                15
April 24, 2025


       B.     “UTAH COLLECTIVE,” PLZ-25-8010, A FINAL SITE PLAN FOR A
              PRIVATE SCHOOL TO BE LOCATED ON 1.3 ACRES OF LAND LOCATED
              AT 2673 WEST 11800 SOUTH. APPLICANT – BEN MILAR.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report regarded the Amended Site Plan for the Utah
Collective School. The original Site Plan was approved by the Planning Commission on
November 14, 2024, under a Quasi-Public Use so although it is in the RR-22 Zone, it is
treated as a commercial Site Plan. The builder had identified areas where changes were
required, and an Amended Site Plan had been submitted for Commission review. Traffic
flow on the site will be one way, entering from 2700 West and exiting onto 11800 South.
Existing fence on the south property line will remain, and fencing on the east will be masonry.
A decorative rail fence will be installed on the road frontages. Photographs of the site were
displayed, as well as the requested Site Plan changes.

The following changes were requested:

       1.     Gates: The Applicant proposed gates at both entrances. Gates would swing
              inward and be prohibited from blocking the public right-of-way, including the
              public sidewalk. United Fire Authority approval would be required.

       2.     Storage shed: The materials and color would match the primary structure,
              and the shed would be required to meet Riverton City Code for residential
              accessory structures.

       3.     Heat pumps: These must be moved as they are six feet tall and would not
              work in the original location. The proposed new location is on the northeast
              corner of the building, and they would be screened with white vinyl fencing.

       4.     Storage rooms: Two storage room additions were proposed on the south side
              of the sports court building.

       5.     Upper classrooms: The Applicant proposed expanding the top floor to the
              north and south by approximately five feet, which would increase the size of
              the classrooms but decrease the patio cover.

       6.     Brick color change: The original elevations showed white brick and white
              siding. The proposed brick would be dark red with a whitewashed finish to add
              red undertones and a rustic feel.

Commissioner Keele noted that there was a clerical error in the Staff Report. The original
Site Plan was approved on November 14, 2024, not 2004.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the popout for the larger classrooms would hang over the edge
of the first floor. Mr. Prestwich reported that he believed it was cantilevered.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              16
April 24, 2025


The applicant, Ben Milar stated that they are learning a lot during the building process, and
the proposed changes would increase the buildings’ functionality. In response to
Commissioner Cluff’s question, he reported that the upper floor would extend past the edge
of the main level.

Chair Park asked if any foundational work would need to be readjusted due to the proposed
changes. Mr. Milar stated that no adjustments would be required for the main structure. The
sports court storage rooms would require a non-structural foundation wall at the frost line.

Commissioner Cannon expressed his appreciation for the Applicant’s concern for the
eastern neighbor and thanked him for going above and beyond expectations on the wall
between the properties.

Commissioner Cluff stated that she lives very close to the property, and several of her
neighbors who homeschool are very excited about the Utah Collective School.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-25-8010 “Utah Collective School Amended,” amending the original
Site Plan which was approved by the Planning Commission on November 14, 2024,
with the following conditions:

      1.     Gates may be installed at the 2700 West and 11800 South entrances,
             subject to final review and approval by Unified Fire. Gates may not swing
             into the public right-of-way or block the public sidewalk.

      2.     Storage Shed materials and color to match the primary structure.
             Storage shed size, height, and setbacks to follow Riverton City Code for
             residential accessory structures.

      3.     Building footprint and elevations may be adjusted to allow for extra
             storage rooms and extra classroom space as shown.

      4.     Heat pumps may be located at the northwest corner of the school. Heat
             pumps to be screened with materials consistent or complimentary with
             the approved site fencing or approved building materials.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                               17
April 24, 2025


5.    MINUTES

      A.    MINUTES APPROVAL – APRIL 10, 2025.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of April 10, 2025, as reported. Commissioner Cluff
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:53 PM.
