                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             October 26, 2023
Subject:          “Lofts at Rose Creek Crossing, Phase 2 Amended,” PLZ-23-1005, a minor
                  boundary line adjustment at 13641 South Stone Rose Lane (3620 West). Applicant
                  – Tom Spencer


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-1005 “Lofts at Rose Creek Crossing,
Phase 2 Amended”, located at 13641 South Stone Rose Lane with the following
conditions:

      1. Address any outstanding Riverton City staff redline comments on the plat and plans.
      2. The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from applicable outside
         agencies or jurisdictions, including utility companies that have an interest in any
         PUE’s on the subject properties.
      3. Amendment shall be approved by and recorded with Salt Lake County Recorder’s
         Office.

 Background

This is a public hearing to amend a boundary line at 13641 South Stone Rose Lane, The Lofts at
Rose Creek Crossing Phase 2 is a recorded development that is under construction. As a multi-
family development, each unit sits on a separate parcel. A technical issue arose regarding one of
the internal parcels during construction that requires this minor adjustment. This adjusts the
boundary area of several of the recorded parcels to bring them into conformance with the
constructed building. This amendment would only adjust the common boundary and no new lots
are created, and no new improvements are required. The resulting lots and parcels meet the
minimum requirements for size and setbacks in the zone.

Staff from Engineering and Planning as well as the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office have
reviewed this proposed plat amendment and are recommending approval with the conditions
listed above in the example motion.


Attachments
The following items are attached:
 Report by: TJP
          1.     Application.
          2.     Aerial Images.
          3.     Lofts at Rose Creek Crossing Ph 2 Plat (from 2022)
          4.     Proposed Amended Subdivision Plat.




Report by: TJP
