                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            May 11, 2023
Subject:         PLZ-23-2019 “Pro Lawn Maintenance,” Conditional Use–Home Occupation
                 permit application for a landscaping business to be located at 1871 West
                 Grassy Knoll Court. Applicant- Lamar Elison


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2019 “Pro Lawn Maintenance”, at 1871
West Grassy Knoll Court with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. All business-related vehicles must use off-street parking (18.190.060.6).
    6. All work vehicles and equipment such as mowers, plows, etc. must be screened by a solid
       fence or parked in the garage and out of public view (18.190.060.4.a.ii).
    7. No grass clippings, mulch, compost, fertilizer, or related material will be stored on the
       premises, including the back yard.
    8. There will not be any customers, employees, or deliveries at the home.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “Pro Lawn Maintenance” at
1871 West Grassy Knoll Court. The property is lot 217 of Meadows #2 Subdivision in the
northeast quadrant of the city. It is a 0.34-acre corner lot that has frontage on both Grassy Knoll
Court and South Dansie Way. The property is zoned R-3, as are the surrounding properties.
The home is a rambler with about 1,800-sf above grade and a basement. The home has an
attached 3-car garage with driveway and parking on the north side of the home.
Applicant operates a landscaping/ lawncare business and is requesting to use his home as a
base for the business. There will not be any customers, employees, or deliveries at the home. He
has several business vehicles, including pickup trucks, multiple trailers, plows, etc. that will be
 Report by: LH
parked at another location. He seeks permission to store one mower in his garage.
This item comes before the Planning Commission because applicant wishes to come into
compliance with city ordinances. His home has previously been the location of all business
activity and vehicle storage. Multiple neighbors had expressed concerns about clogged streets
from business vehicles, undesirable smells from stored grass clippings, and employees
contributing to noise and congestion. If the applicant adheres to the conditions in place for this
home occupation permit, those concerns should be resolved.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval for the home occupation with conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At this time one public comment has been received expressing concern about the previous
activities and support of the conditional use permit if conditions for the permit are adhered to.

 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map
          2.     Application
          3.     Site Plan
          4.     Street Views




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
18.190.060 Fixed standards.
(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed, volunteer,
or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located. And only one nonresident
employee may work at the home at one time regardless of the number of home occupations.
      (a) The planning commission may grant an exception to this requirement and allow additional
      employees working at the home with a conditional use permit if the applicant can demonstrate
      they meet the following qualifications:
           (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and business-
           related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.
           (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the residential integrity of
           the property and shall not displace any required front yard landscaping.

             (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted amounts as
             specified in this title.

             (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.

             (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars, pick-up trucks, vans
             and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction equipment, and other heavy equipment
             shall not be permitted to be brought to the home by employees.

             (vi) That any increase in the number of employees does not result in an increase of
             customers visiting the property that would exceed allotted customers per day as specified by
             this title.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage on vehicles parked
             at the home.


(5) Off-Site Employees. Any home occupation may utilize employees to work off site. The off-site
employee, volunteer, agent or any other person engaged with the home occupation shall not
come to the home for purposes related to the home occupation license unless otherwise
approved with a conditional use permit by the planning commission.

(6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the home
occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and use off-street
parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or business-related visitor
vehicles.

(7) Vehicle Advertisement. Vehicles or equipment may not be used for the primary purpose of
advertising the home occupation at the site of the home occupation.

(8) Designating Areas of Property to Be Used. The home occupation applicant must designate the
portion of the home, accessory structure, yard, attached or detached garage dedicated as the
principal location for business activities.

(10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any unscreened or
unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not limited to, home

 Report by: LH
occupation events or activities; and storage or display of supplies, inventory or equipment when
such use is in conjunction with the sales, service or production of goods. Any screened area or
structure used for the home occupation must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.

(14) Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not substantially,
unreasonably and uncharacteristically interfere or disrupt the peace, quiet and domestic
tranquility of the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not create or be associated with or
produce odor, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, noises or vibrations, excessive traffic or other
nuisances, including interferences with radio and television reception or any other adverse effects
within the neighborhood.




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, May 11, 2023 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Lamar Elison is requesting a conditional use for a home occupation “Pro Lawn Maintenance” to be
located at 1871 W. Grassy Knoll Court. He states that he will not have employees, deliveries, work
vehicles or customers on-site but seeks permission to park a lawn mower inside his garage.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
