                     RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                              MEETING MINUTES
                                 MAY 22, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Darren Park, Chair                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Monique Beck                                    Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Shelly Cluff
Crystal Keele
Evan Matheson
Troy Rushton

1.           CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

Chair Park led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     “CHARLENE AND FRANCIS CUHO”, PLZ-25-2009, AN APPLICATION
             FOR A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A HOME OCCUPATION
             SELLING PLANT-RELATED ITEMS TO BE LOCATED AT 4148 PARK
             HOLLOW LANE. APPLICANT – TERI HUNTER (THIS AGENDA ITEM
             WAS CONTINUED FROM THE APRIL 10, 2025 PC MEETING).

Lisa Halversen, planner, presented the Staff Report and stated that the item was
postponed from the April 10, 2025, Planning Commission meeting due to noticing issues.
The property at 4148 Park Hollow Lane is 0.38 acres and is zoned R-3, as are the
surrounding properties.

The applicant, Teri Hunter, proposed a Home Occupation selling nursery items like plants,
pots, and trellises. Space in the home’s backyard and garage will be utilized for the
business. Ms. Hunter is affiliated with the local Rose Society and will purchase the items
in bulk to sell to other members. Sales will be seasonal, occasional, and irregular.

The aerial map, photographs, and Site Plans were reviewed. The Applicant anticipates
between zero and eight customers per day and is aware that she may have a maximum
of eight customers. Customers will pick up their purchases by individual appointment and
will park in the home’s driveway.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             2
May 22, 2025


A Conditional Use Permit and Planning Commission approval were required because the
Applicant intended to use garage and backyard space for business purposes. Residents
are allowed to have up to four-yard sales per year, which Ms. Hunter’s proposal somewhat
resembles. With a conditional use permit for a home occupation she will be allowed to
sell more often. Her sales were reported to Code Enforcement, and she wants to ensure
that she is in compliance with the Home Occupation Code.

Ms. Halversen reported that any business use in a backyard must be screened, and the
Applicant’s yard is screened with a vinyl fence. Up to 50% of garage space can be used
for business purposes. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers.

Notices were sent to neighboring property owners and no comments were received in
opposition to the application, but two comments were received in support.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Ms. Halversen clarified that City
Code does not specify the percentage of backyard space that can be dedicated to
business use, only that it must be screened.

Ms. Hunter stated that she has no desire to have a business, but she was reported for
having a business and now understands that the City’s Home Occupation regulations
require that she obtain a business license. She buys and sells plants and accessories
with the goal of breaking even. She does not want to lose money helping people, but she
also does not profit from her sales.

Ms. Hunter provided examples of her favorite rare roses and reported that she is very
active in the Utah Rose Society. She started the Facebook page eight years ago, and it
now has over 3,000 members. When she learns about unusual or in-demand roses, she
has the ability to purchase them in bulk and be reimbursed by members. For example,
the Plant & Grow nursery in Clearfield was selling Charlene roses for $10 apiece, which
is a very good price. Members requested that she purchase 67 roses, which she then
distributed. She did not make money on the sale, but it was an opportunity for people
who live too far from the nursery to take advantage of its pricing.

Chair Park stated that Ms. Hunter was providing a nice service to the community.

Commissioner Keele stated that she lives close to Ms. Hunter and frequently admires her
beautiful roses.

In response to a question from Commissioner Beck, Ms. Hunter clarified that she sells to
Rose Society members from all over the area who contact her via Facebook.

Commissioner Cannon asked if Ms. Hunter had experienced any issues with theft or
vandalism. Ms. Hunter stated that she had been worried about potential issues, but there
had been no theft or vandalism.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          3
May 22, 2025


Commissioner Matheson expressed surprise that someone would turn Ms. Hunter in for
her activities. Ms. Hunter stated that she was initially upset. The Utah Rose Society
board held elections at approximately the same time and the candidates that she
supported won, so she believes one of the former board members may have turned her
in. However, now she is grateful because she has received so much positive feedback
from society members and her neighbors.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-25-2009, “Charlene and Francis CUHO” at 4148 Park Hollow Lane,
subject to the following:

Conditions:

      1.      The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and
              all applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the
              City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
              Fire Codes.

      2.      Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.      Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
              agency approvals.

      4.      Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.      No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m.
              or after 7:00 p.m.

      6.      Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for
              business activities.

      7.      Applicant may use screened backyard space for storage and sales.

      8.      Customers must be provided off-street parking.

      9.      A maximum of eight customers per day is allowed.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               4
May 22, 2025


      B.     “ALL YOU KNEAD SOURDOUGH,” PLZ-25-2015, AN APPLICATION
             FOR A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A HOME BAKERY TO BE
             LOCATED AT 13090 SOUTH 2420 WEST.     APPLIANT – TORI
             CUNNINGHAM.

Ms. Halversen presented the Staff Report and presented an aerial view and photographs
of the property located in the Mindy Meadows Plat C subdivision. The property is 0.25
acres and is zoned R-4, as are the neighboring properties. The lot has approximately 80
feet of frontage on 2420 West, and the home is two stories with a two-car attached garage
and extra-wide driveway that can accommodate several vehicles.

The Applicant, Tori Cunningham proposed to occasionally use her kitchen to prepare and
sell sourdough baked goods. Customers would order online and schedule individual
appointments for order pickup at the home. Ms. Cunningham did not anticipate more
than four customers per day, one to two times per week. The business would not require
any deliveries to the home. Business use would be confined to the kitchen and front
entry, well below the 25% of the main floor allowed for business use.

Ms. Halversen reported that a Conditional Use Permit and Planning Commission approval
was required because it is a business that sells food or drink, and the Applicant would
also need to obtain approval from the Utah State Department of Health.

Notices were sent to neighboring property owners, and no comments were received.

Ms. Cunningham stated that she started the business because her husband works in
Alaska for two weeks each month and she has young children, so she cannot work at a
typical job. She makes bread for family and friends, who encouraged her to start the
home business.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Ms. Cunningham stated that she has not
begun selling her products. She has been testing different flavors on friends and family.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Ms. Cunningham stated that she
acquired her sourdough starter from a neighbor, who acquired it from someone else. She
was unsure of its age or origin.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Ms. Cunningham stated that the
sourdough is baked in a Dutch oven and only two can fit in her oven at a time, so she is
limited to a minimum of four to six loaves per day. Sales will be via Instagram, Facebook,
and word-of-mouth.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Ms. Cunningham reported that the
favorite flavors so far are asiago cheese with everything bagel seasoning and rosemary
parmesan.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          5
May 22, 2025


Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-25-2015, “All You Knead Sourdough” at 13090 South 2420 West, subject to the
following:

Conditions:

      1.      The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and
              all applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the
              City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
              Fire Codes.

      2.      Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.      Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
              agency approvals.

      4.      Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.      Applicant may use up to 25% of the main floor for the business.

      6.      No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation before 7:00 a.m.
              or after 7:00 p.m.

Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.


3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.      None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.      NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.      5/8/25 PC Meeting Minutes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                   6
May 22, 2025


Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of May 8, 2025, as reported. Commissioner
Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 6:59 PM.
