                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            October 24, 2024
Subject:         PLZ-22-8017, Riverton City Amended Site Plans, Lighting, Riverton City
                 Civic Center (12830 S Redwood Road) & Domed Meeting Hall (12765 S 1400
                 W), Riverton City, Applicant


This application is an administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion

I move the Planning Commission APPROVE application PLZ-22-8017, Riverton City Lighting
Amendments for Riverton Civic Center and Domed Meeting Hall Site Plans.

OR:

I move the Planning Commission DENY application PLZ-22-8017, Riverton City Lighting
Amendments for Riverton Civic Center and Domed Meeting Hall Site Plans

Background

This item is a proposed amendment to buildings within the Riverton City Civic Center, namely
the main City Hall, the Sandra N. Lloyd Community Center, and the Police Department Building,
and the Domed Meeting Hall located within the Main City Park. The proposed amendment is
the addition of lighting strands to those buildings along the upper portions of the roofline, which
would be used during holiday periods as well as civic events. This lighting would be
permanently attached to the building, replacing seasonally installed temporary lighting. While
civic spaces were not included in the recently adopted language regarding holiday lighting, the
addition of the permanent lighting does require an amendment to the original site plan. In
addition, the lighting does not fall within any of the proximity limitations relative to residential
properties in the area.

The buildings are shown on the attached map, and general location of the lighting is shown on
included diagrams.



Report by: TJP
10/22/2024
Domed Meeting Hall
Black is lower level of building

Red is upper level of building
Riverton City Hall
   Sandra N Lloyd
Community Center
Police Department
