                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            May 14, 2026
Subject:         Ordinance Amendment PLZ-26-5004, amending Section 18.90 (Table of
                 Commercial Uses), amendments proposed by Gold Cross Ambulance.


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final
decision authority for rezone applications.

Example Motions:

     I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of amending Section 18.90.010,
     Table of Commercial Uses, with amendments as described herein.

     OR

     I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of the ordinance amendment, thus
     leaving the Table of Commercial Uses as currently constituted.


Background


Riverton City code includes a Table of Commercial Uses in Section 18.90.010. The Table of
Uses lists many Land Uses and lists whether each use is Permitted (P), Not Permitted (NP), or
Conditional (C) in each of the six commercial zones. From time to time the Table of
Commercial Uses is reviewed and modified to meet the current needs of the City.

This amendment, brought by the applicant seeks to amend the table of uses so that Ambulance
Services becomes a Conditional Use in the Gateway (C-G) zone and introduces language
defining Ambulance Services and includes conditions governing the Ambulance service use.
Below is a description of each step required for this request.

     1. Remove “Ambulance” from the current category of “Motor Vehicle Services”




Report by: tjp
5/12/2026
     2. Add a Category to the table for “Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services
        Facility” with permissions set to NP (Not Permitted) in the C-D, C-N, and C-PO zones.
        And C (Conditional) in the C-G, C-R, and PCC Zones.

     3. Add a definition to section 18.05.030 for “Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical
        Services Facility”

                 a. Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility. A facility used for
                    the deployment, staging, and housing of ambulances and emergency medical
                    personnel, excluding hospitals and emergency rooms. The use may include
                    administrative offices, staff living facilities, and vehicle storage but shall not
                    include routine patient intake or long-term patient care.

     4. Add conditions to RCC 18.195.060 “Special standards and considerations governing
        particular uses.”

          (5) Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility. Conditional use
          approval shall be given based on compliance with all other standards in this chapter, and
          upon compliance with the following conditions and considerations:

                    (a) Vehicles stored indoors or screened.
                    (b) Siren use limited to emergencies.
                    (c) No walk-in public services.
                    (d) Adequate parking and circulation.
                    (e) Compatible site design and landscaping.



 Attachments

The following items are attached:
    1. Existing Table of Commercial Uses
    2. Proposed Table of Commercial Uses
    3. Proposed Zone Text for 18.05.030 and 18.195.060 (5)




Report by: tjp
5/12/2026
Existing Table of Commercial Uses.
 LAND USE                                           C-D     C-G      C-N     C-PO     C-R       PCC
 Motor vehicle services (taxi, auto rental,
                                                     C      NP       NP       NP        P        P
 ambulance, parcel pickup and delivery)




Proposed Table of Commercial Uses.
 LAND USE                                           C-D     C-G      C-N     C-PO     C-R       PCC
 Motor vehicle services (taxi, auto rental,
                                                     C      NP       NP       NP        P        P
 ambulance, parcel pickup and delivery)
 Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical
                                                    NP       C       NP       NP        C        C
 Services Facility




Proposed Definition in 18.05.030
“Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility”

Means a facility used for the deployment, staging, and housing of ambulances and emergency
medical personnel, excluding hospitals and emergency rooms. The use may include
administrative offices, staff living facilities, and vehicle storage but shall not include routine
patient intake or long-term patient care.




Proposed Conditions for 18.195.060

(5) Ambulance Service/Emergency Medical Services Facility. Conditional use approval
shall be given based on compliance with all other standards in this chapter, and upon
compliance with the following conditions and considerations:

          (a) Vehicles stored indoors or screened.
          (b) Siren use limited to emergencies.
          (c) No walk-in public services.
          (d) Adequate parking and circulation.
          (e) Compatible site design and landscaping.


Report by: tjp
5/12/2026
