                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            April 28, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-21-8012 Amended Site Plan, ”Little Geniuses Learning Center” amending
                 the site plan of an existing commercial building in the C-G Zone, located at 2464
                 West 12600 South. Applicant- Gloria Rodriguez.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-21-8012 “Little Geniuses Learning Center”
amending the site plan of an existing commercial building in the C-G Zone, located at 2464
West 12600 South. with the following conditions:

    1. Approval is for adding onsite vinyl fencing.
    2. Landscaping shall remain in place and no trees may be removed.

or
I move the Planning Commission deny PLZ-21-8012 “Little Geniuses Learning Center”
amending the site plan of an existing commercial building in the C-G Zone, located at 2464
West 12600 South.

Background

This is a public hearing for amending an existing commercial site plan located on the north side
of 12600 South at 2464 West. Amended Site Plan applications are requests to make changes
to a previously approved site plan, or the architecture or appearance of a commercial building.
Commercial Buildings are reviewed by the Planning Commission as part of commercial site
plans, and if a property owner desires to change an existing commercial building they must
apply for an amended commercial site plan.

The building was approved as the Hosac Retail Center in 2008. It is a multi-tenant building with
eight commercial spaces. The applicant has signed a lease for the furthest east tenant space to
do a day care. The State requires daycares to have a certain area for outside time, this area
must be fenced and have self-locking gates. The space is required even if the daycare does
not intend to use it. The applicant has worked with the owner of the building to identify a space
behind the building (north side) where a fence can be added without removing parking stalls,
drive aisles, landscaping or other infrastructure.

Report by: TJP
4/26/2022
On the north side of the Hosac building there is a sidewalk running parallel to the building and
then about 15-ft of landscaped area leading up to an existing fence separating the Hosac site
from the Country View Condo Development. The applicant is requesting permission to create a
fenced in play area between the existing fence and the existing sidewalk.

This was noticed as a public hearing item, but no comments had been received when this report
was written.

Recommendations

This request does not alter the required landscaping or any required or necessary infrastructure,
and is across the fence from a community play area therefore Staff has no objections to the
proposed changes to the existing site.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Public Notice including Area Map.
        2. Application.
        3. Building Owner Approval.
        4. Existing Building Photos
        5. Proposed Fence Plan.
        6. Oblique Fence Plan.




Report by: TJP
4/26/2022
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, April 28, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Gloria Rodriguez is requesting approval for an amended commercial site plan for Little Geniuses
Learning Center to be in an existing commercial building in the C-G Zone at 2464 West 12600 South.
The application proposes to add a fenced play area on the north side of the existing building.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3124.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3138. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertonutah.gov
