                         RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 NOVEMBER 10, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                        Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                                 Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Jon Gilchrist                                       Lisa Halverson, City Planner
Evan Matheson                                       Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Darren Park

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Pledge was
led by Commissioner Matheson.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     PLZ-22-2042 - LAURA KINGSTON'S CHILDCARE - LAURA KINGSTON IS
              SEEKING APPROVAL FOR A CONDITIONAL USE-HOME OCCUPATION
              PERMIT FOR IN-HOME CHILDCARE LOCATED AT 11852 SOUTH SHADY
              ACRES.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

City Planner, Lisa Halversen, presented the Staff Report and stated that the applicant, Laura
Kingston, is seeking a Conditional Use Home Occupation Permit for an in-home daycare to
be located at 11852 South Shady Acres. She intends to have 16 children, of which six will
be her own. She will have one additional employee. This is not a dense neighborhood and
it is believed that there will be minimal impact with respect to traffic with three to four vehicles
anticipated per day. A property rendering was displayed. The second employee will live in
the home thereby eliminating an additional vehicle.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked if Shady Acres Lane is a private lane or City street.
Ms. Halverson stated that Shady Acres is a private lane. The property will be accessed
through the driveway with egress to Shady Acres Court.

The applicant, Laura Kingston, reported that she has run her business for four years with
the last two years being in South Jordan. It is a family childcare with a maximum of 16
children. She prefers to take families with multiple children as opposed to 16 different
families. Traffic flow will be minimal with an anticipated four vehicles per day. She reported
that she picks up the children from the parent at an offsite location and brings them into her
location with her own vehicle.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
November 10, 2022

Marty Beatty lives on Shady Acres Court and confirmed that it is a private lane. He is retired
and moved to Riverton for peace and quiet. He was opposed to the request and any
increase in traffic.

Tonya Beatty also resides on Shady Acres Court and in addition to the cost of a private lane,
there are other considerations. They moved to their home for the quiet and lack of traffic
and wished to continue to enjoy their home. She was opposed to the Conditional Use
request.

Clay Holt lives near the front of Shady Acres Court and anything that goes through the lane
must first pass his home. He was not opposed to the request but believed that to make it
effective, the applicant would need to utilize private access to the west.

There were no further public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked if there is a Homeowners Association (“HOA”) for the private
lane. City Attorney, Ryan Carter stated if the Planning Commission finds it necessary to
utilize Shady Acres in connection with the business, he recommended that the matter be
continued until the applicant can produce title records to delineate the rights for use of the
private lane. He stated that an alternate option could include imposing a condition stating
that the west lane must be used exclusively. It was understood the private lane on the west
edge has the same title name as the property under review and holds exclusive rights to its
use.

Chair Cluff asked for clarification regarding the Planning Commission’s requirements for
denial. Mr. Carter explained that if an applicant can demonstrate that they meet all
conditions found in the ordinance, they are entitled to land use approval. Should there be a
question as to whether there is an impact created by the business that cannot be reasonably
mitigated. The Planning Commission would have a heavy burden to establish denial as long
as there is adequate access and it can be shown there is reasonable mitigation to the
proposed activity.

Commissioner Park asked if fencing is a State requirement for this type of use.
Ms. Halverson confirmed that fencing is required with this type of Business License
Application. She reported that the Code states that there will be a maximum of 12 students
per session and 24 per day regardless of the number of employees. It was confirmed that
the maximum number also includes the applicant’s six children.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application PLZ-22-2042,
Laura Kingston Childcare located at 11852 South Shady Acres Court with the
following conditions:

       1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             3
November 10, 2022

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health
             Department approvals.

      4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.     The Home Occupation may have up to 16 children per day (the number
             includes the applicant's children) and a maximum of 12 students at one
             time.

      6.     The Home Occupation may have up to 8 vehicle trips per day by
             customers/parents.

      7.     The applicant is approved to have one additional employee.

      8.     Customers and employees must utilize the driveway or off-street parking
             for drop-offs and pick-ups.

      9.     Any traffic related to the business will be limited to the lane on the west
             side of the property, not the private lane that is mutually owned.

      10.    Children under childcare will be contained by fencing and any outside
             time will be within the fenced area.

Commissioner Gilchrist seconded the motion.             The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      B.     CODE AMENDMENT - RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
             TO SECTION 18.05.030, DEFINITIONS, INCLUDING CLARIFICATIONS TO
             ITEMS REGARDING ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADUs) AND
             TOBACCO PRODUCTS.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that the above item is a
legislative recommendation that is similar to a rezone. The matter was brought before the
Planning Commission as a result of changes to State definitions regarding smoke shops and
vaping. It was at the City’s discretion to update definitions to reflect the State Code and
address additional issues. The proposed changes were identified in the Staff Report and
focused on carports and walkout basements. He noted that the definitions are listed on the
City’s website under Title 18.

There were no public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
November 10, 2022

Commissioner Gilchrist moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of the proposed amendment to Section 18.05.030 – Definitions as
described in the included draft with no additional amendments. Chair Cluff seconded
the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     “MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 19,” PLZ-22-8033, A FINAL PLAN FOR A
              RESIDENTIAL PROJECT. APPLICANT – EDGE HOMES

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the above item is a Final Plan for
the residential project "Mountain Ridge Phase 19.” A property rendering was displayed.
SLR Projects include a Community Scale Plan, Block Scale Plan, followed by the Detail
Plan. Edge Homes has come up with a slip lane design to allow homes along the western
portion to face the road. Phase 18 included the clubhouse with a Block Plan Amendment
converting a church building to housing.

A trail system was recently approved along a masonry wall. Mr. Prestwich noted that both
Ledger and Templar Drives are public streets with internal roads being private. The project
will include 20 townhome units in four buildings with 90 condominium units in nine buildings.
The ground floor includes a two-car garage with 20 feet of parking and a living unit on the
opposite side. Each building contains a second floor with two units and a third floor with two
units.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Edge Homes design complies with Mountain Ridge Design
Guidelines adopted in October 2020. He pointed out that all single-family housing shall
incorporate a minimum two-car garage with a driveway setback of 20 feet. Depending on
phasing, there is a temporary fire turnaround with adequate fire access throughout. It is
anticipated that an additional fire access will be constructed with Phase 20. Staff
recommended approval with conditions as listed in the Staff Report.

Chair Cluff asked if the parking requirements for the townhomes and condominiums are the
same. Mr. Prestwich stated that the plan does not specify condominiums but believed that
both are inclusive of a two-car garage and a 20-foot driveway.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked if the fencing is intended for noise mitigation or a concrete
fence. He also asked about the ownership of the fencing. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the
fencing is owned by the HOA.

Jaren Nicholls, from Edge Homes, stated that each unit will have a 20-foot driveway with a
single-car garage. The main-floor living space is located on the back side of the units with
five on each side. He stated that adequate on-street parking is located throughout the
development. The public roads are wide and will provide additional parking.

Commissioner Matheson felt that this was a dense development and asked for clarification
on garbage removal. Mr. Nichols stated that in other communities, the garbage truck access
is located along the private lane where cans are pushed to the edge of the road. The HOA
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 5
November 10, 2022

requires cans be stored inside the garage. The area is delineated by commercial drive
approaches to enable City snowplows to differentiate between private and public. The HOA
is responsible for snow removal within the alleys.

Commissioner Park asked if the HOA contracts for garbage removal or if it is through the
same City contract. Mr. Nichols believed that the HOA has a separate contract with garbage
removal and may likely be the same company. Mr. Carter stated that Mr. Nicholls’
understanding would be consistent with arrangements with the surrounding HOAs. Riverton
City does not provide garbage service on private roads.

Commissioner Park expressed concern with the timing of a slowing housing market and an
open construction site blowing dust to surrounding areas. Mr. Nichols explained that
Phases 17 and 18 are on track with the pace of the current housing market. Phases 19 and
20 are scheduled for completion in the Spring of 2023 but will not commence unless they
are certain they can be completed. Incentives will be offered to potential buyers and the
market will maintain interest throughout a slowdown. He confirmed that the homes will be
priced in the $300,000 range and they will continue to follow the marketing situation.

Trail connections were discussed. Mr. Prestwich reported that Staff met with the Wasatch
Front Regional Council (“WFRC”) and Salt Lake County to review the east/west bike and
trail corridors. They were reviewing sources for outside funding and identifying priorities for
which trails to connect.

Commissioner Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-8033,
“Mountain Ridge Phase 19” Final Plan to be located near 13600 South Sentinel Ridge
Boulevard with the following conditions:

       1.     This Phase shall comply with the terms and conditions approved with
              the Block Scale Plan, and with the SLR Project Area Master Development
              Agreement.

       2.     This Phase shall be subject to final development review and comments
              by the City, including but not limited to stormwater, culinary, and
              pressurized irrigation systems design.

       3.     Applicant must update their Long-Term Storm Water Management Plan
              or Covenant to Maintain to reflect the updated site plan as required by
              City ordinance.

       4.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the city prior to any
              construction grading on the site.

       5.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City standards and ordinances, including the International Building and
              Fire Codes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                         6
November 10, 2022

      6.    The six-foot masonry wall along Mountain View Highway (along the west
            lines of Phases 18 & 19) must be installed prior to building permits being
            used.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.            The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

5.    MINUTES

      A.    PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES - APPROVAL OF PC MINUTES FROM
            THE 9.8.22 MEETING.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission ACCEPT the minutes of the
September 8, 2022, meeting as presented with the changes noted. Commissioner
Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

      B.    PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES - APPROVAL OF PC MINUTES FROM
            THE 9.22.22 MEETING.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission ACCEPT the minutes
of the September 22, 2022, meeting as presented. Commissioner Park seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:38 p.m.
