                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             April 11, 2024
Subject:          PLZ-24-2011 Conditional Use, “Molett Parallel Fencing”, to be located at
                  4473 W. Sacajewa.Street. Applicant- James Molett


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-2011 Conditional Use for “Molett Parallel
Fencing ” with the following conditions:

      1. A second fence, extending total height up to eight (8) feet along the southwest property
         line may be installed in compliance with Riverton City Code Section 18.155.110, allowing
         the existing fence to remain.
      2. The applicant shall maintain his property, including the space adjacent to the existing
         fencing, in compliance with City Ordinance.

 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a parallel fence to be installed next to an existing
fence. The subject property is located at 4473 West Sacajewa Street, in the Canyonview Park
subdivision in the northwest quadrant of the city. The lot is .14-acres, just over 6,000-sf. It is zoned
R-7-SP, as are neighboring properties. The applicant is requesting a Conditional Use permit to
allow a parallel fence, also referred to in Riverton City’s Code as a “fence within a fence”.

The applicant’s property sits lower than the adjacent property to the west. The configuration of the
driveway on the adjacent property, while it is in compliance with Riverton City Code, is such that
headlights of vehicles are visible from the applicant’s property. Given the difference in grade, the
existing six (6) foot fence does not fully shield the adjacent driveway. The applicant is requesting
the ability to install a two (2) foot extension to the existing fence for that portion of the property.
The extension would be approximately 3 inches inside the existing fence, and would be self-
supporting.

Riverton City’s ordinance does allow for a fence-within-a-fence as a Conditional Use, with the
following criteria:

      (a) That the second fence be constructed wholly on the applicant’s property, verified if required by
      a survey.
 Report by: TJP
      (b) That the second fence not lean against or otherwise utilize the existing fence for support or
      stability.
      (c) That the applicant be responsible for the placement of permanent weed control measures in
      space between the fences.
      (d) That the applicant, and any and all future owners of the property, be responsible for
      maintenance of any space remaining between the two fences.
      (e) That the second fence not obstruct or impair visibility at any corner or adjacent to existing
      driveways, as defined in this title.
      (f) That the fencing comply with any and all applicable sections of this title.

The proposed fencing is wholly on the applicant’s property, within the existing fence and property
line. The fencing contractor has confirmed that the fence extension will not be attached to or
resting against the existing fence. As the second fence is a height extension, there is no barrier at
the bottom of the fencing that would prohibit maintenance. As such, staff finds the proposed fence-
within-a-fence compliant with City ordinance, and recommends approval as described in the
suggested motion.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of a parallel fence for the property with the conditions listed
above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site. No comments were received.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1. Public Notice including Area Map.
           2. Property Map and aerial photos
           3. Application Materials




 Report by: TJP
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                 The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                 on Thursday, April 11, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                 City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take
public comment on the following application:
James Molett is seeking a Conditional Use Permit for parallel fencing (install a new fence next to an
existing fence) on property located at 4473 W. Sacajawea St.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
