                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            August 11, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-22-2026 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Anna’s Let’s Play
                 Music Studio”, at 13594 South Firetip Court. Applicant-Anna Coles.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2026, “Anna’s Let’s Play Music Studio”,
at 13594 South Firetip Court with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable Riverton
        City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190)
        and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
        and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may have up to 14 children per day (number includes the applicant’s
        children under 6 years old) with a maximum of seven (7) children per session.
    6. The Home Occupation may have up to 14 vehicle trips per day by customers/parents.
    7. The applicant may have up to two (2) sessions per day, with sessions separated by at least
        30-minutes.
    8. Pick-ups and drop-offs must take place only in the front or side of her house as shown in
        the traffic diagram proposal A or B.
    9. The applicant is approved to teach the classes one day per week.
    10. Applicant may utilize up to three (3) on-street parking spaces twice a month for recitals.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “Anna’s Let’s Play Music
Studio,” an in-home studio for music and movement lessons for children to be located at 13594
South Firetip Court. The property is in Monarch Meadows in the southwestern part of the city.
The property is zoned SP R-7 and is 0.14-acres. The house is a 2-story with a footprint of
approx. 1080-sf.
The applicant is requesting approval of a conditional use home occupation for in-home music
classes. She would like permission to teach up to 14 children and she would divide her classes
 Report by: LH
into two sessions. She would like to have two (2) sessions one day a week. Sessions would have
staggered start times and be separated by the next session by at least 30 minutes.
The staggered drop-off time and 30 minutes between sessions will help with the traffic and
parking. She plans to have parents drop off and pick up kids in front or on the side of her house
on Firetip Court. Parking will be an issue twice a month when she holds recitals where parents
are invited to attend. The maximum number of parking spaces needed on these days is seven (7)
for each session. Her driveway will accommodate four (4) cars, and she has a corner lot which
provides frontage along Firetip Court and Crimson Patch Way for an additional three (3) cars. Her
court is at the end of a non-through street and traffic/parking impact on the neighborhood should
be minimal to moderate.
Music/movement classes are considered child group activities and therefore have special rules in
our City Home Occupation Ordinance. Child group activities are allowed more visitors per day
and more vehicle trips per day than a typical home occupation as approved by the Commission.
This application comes to the Commission because the ordinance says any child day care or
other child group activity that exceeds 8 children/students per day or any use that exceeds 8
vehicle trips per day is a conditional use.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
allowing up to two sessions per day with a maximum of seven (7) children per session and a
maximum of 14-vehicle trips per day. Pick-ups and drop-offs must take place one at in the area
marked on the traffic diagram for safety. Also, there is a condition that the sessions be separated
by at least 30 minutes and only be held one day a week.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report, no public comments had been received.




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only
sees applications that are requesting permission for certain things as defined by
ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to
approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
        18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.

        The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
        to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
        commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
        exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

        (9) Child day care and other group child activities (e.g., dance schools, preschools, music
        classes, other care, or instruction for children) that are expected to generate or exceed eight
        children/students any day. The following guidelines shall be used by the planning commission to
        determine the maximum number of students/children permitted:

        (a) A traffic plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning department, which includes
        acceptable traffic flow, drop-off and turnaround areas.

        (b) A maximum of 12 students/children per session and a maximum of 24 students/children per
        day shall be permitted.

        (c) A maximum of three sessions per day may be permitted.

        (d) All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicular trips per day.

        (e) The total number of students/children shall include the licensee’s and any employees’
        children if they are under six years of age and are under the care of the licensee at the time the
        home occupation is conducted.

        (f) No child day care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation may be
        established within 300 feet as measured from property line to property line of another child day
        care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
         2.     Application.
         3.     Transportation Plans.
         4.     Street View.




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, August 11, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to
                                               take public comment on the following application:
Anna Coles is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Anna’s Let’s Play Music Studio”, an in-
home music studio to be located at 13594 S. Firetip Court. She intends to have from one to seven
customers per session, with two sessions daily once a week.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

YOU MAY HAVE ALREADY RECEIVED THIS NOTICE, THE DATE OF THE MEETING HAS BEEN CHANGED TO
8/11/22


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
