                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 26, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-2021, “Sarai Gonzalez”, a Conditional Use application for a home
                 beauty salon to be located at 4244 W. Fremont Park Court. Applicant – Sarai
                 Gonzalez


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2021, “Sarai Gonzalez CUHO”, at 4244
W. Fremont Park Court with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. No business activity may take place outside the home before 7 am or after 7 pm.
    6. Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for business activities.
    7. Customers must be provided off-street parking.
    8. A maximum of 8 customers per day is allowed.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Sarai Gonzalez CUHO,” at
4244 W. Fremont Park Court. This residence is a townhome in Parkside plat 2 and zone RM-14.
Neighboring properties in this development are both single- and multi-family residences and have
similar zoning. The house is a two-story and there is an attached 2-car garage. The applicant,
Ms. Gonzalez, desires to convert around half of her garage to a hair salon. Clients would also
use a restroom inside the home.


Ms. Gonzalez would work by appointment only, with one client scheduled at a time. She will have
no other employees and plans to work from 10 am to 6 pm. She will provide off-street parking for
her clients, either in her driveway or visitor parking nearby. She expects 2-3 clients per day.

 Report by: LH
This application is well within the staff-approval range for a home occupation. It comes before the
Planning Commission only because the applicant proposes to use space in her garage for
business purposes. The Home Occupation Code states that a proposal to use garage or
accessory building space for business use requires a conditional use permit and approval of the
Planning Commission.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
that 50% of the garage space may be used for the business.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
 Report by: LH
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an exception
         through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home
         occupations.




18.190.060 Fixed standards.
(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed,
volunteer, or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located.
      (a) The planning commission may grant an exception to this requirement and allow
      additional employees working at the home with a conditional use permit if the applicant can
      demonstrate they meet the following qualifications:

             (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and
             business-related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.

             (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the residential integrity
             of the property and shall not displace any required front yard landscaping.
 Report by: LH
              (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted amounts as
              specified in this title.

              (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.

              (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars, pick-up trucks,
              vans and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction equipment, and other heavy
              equipment shall not be permitted to be brought to the home by employees.

              (vi) That any increase in the number of employees does not result in an increase of
              customers visiting the property that would exceed allotted customers per day as
              specified by this title.

              (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage on vehicles
              parked at the home.

              (6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the
              home occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and
              use off-street parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or
              business-related visitor vehicles.

              (10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any
              unscreened or unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not
              limited to, home occupation events or activities; and storage or display of supplies,
              inventory or equipment when such use is in conjunction with the sales, service or
              production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the home occupation
              must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.




Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Application
         2.     Public Notice including Area Map
         3.     Site Plan
         4.     Parking Plan
         5.     Street View




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, June 26, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Road to take
                                               public comment on the following application:
Sarai Gonzalez is seeking approval for a home-based beauty salon to be located in the garage of her
home located at 4244 West Fremont Park Court, in the Parkside Community. She anticipates two
to three customers per day and will work by appointment with one client at a time.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
