                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            April 13, 2023
Subject:         PLZ-23-2013 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “J-ROC Pressure
                 Washing, LLC,” at 13645 S. Mount Cortina Way. Applicant – Zilpah Saena


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2013 “J-ROC Pressure Washing, LLC,”
at 13645 S. Mount Cortina Way with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may use up to 50% of the floor space of the garage for business-
       related parking and storage.
    6. The business may have one (1) full-time equivalent employee besides the applicant
       according to the rules of 18.190.060 (4), which also states that employees must use off-
       street parking.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use Permit for a Home Occupation “J-ROC Pressure
Wash” at 13645 S. Mount Cortina Way. The property is Building 2, Lot 90 of Rose Creek
Crossing Townhomes. The lot is zoned RM-8 (medium-high density residential). The house is a
two-story with about 1,600-sf above grade with a basement. The attached garage is 2-car with
about 400-sf. The property has a driveway on the front of the house.
Applicant operates a mobile pressure-washing business and is requesting to use her garage for
storage for the vehicle and as a base for the mobile business. There will be no customers or
deliveries, and she anticipates having one full-time employee besides herself. She has one
business vehicle that will be parked off-street in the garage. Her employee will park their vehicle
in the visitor parking lot while they are using the work vehicle.
This item comes before the Planning Commission because the applicant wishes to utilize garage
 Report by: LH
space for business use. With the applicant being in a medium-high density area, staff also wishes
to vet the application with commissioners. Applicant and staff have had multiple conversations
and revisions of original plans in order to meet code requirements for a home occupation.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval for the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
specifying that approval allows one (1) employee besides the applicant, and that 50% of the
garage can be used for the home occupation.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.

Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.
 Report by: LH
18.190.060 Fixed standards.
(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed, volunteer,
or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located. And only one nonresident
employee may work at the home at one time regardless of the number of home occupations.
      (a) The planning commission may grant an exception to this requirement and allow additional
      employees working at the home with a conditional use permit if the applicant can demonstrate
      they meet the following qualifications:
           (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and business-
           related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.
           (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the residential integrity of
           the property and shall not displace any required front yard landscaping.

             (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted amounts as
             specified in this title.

             (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.

             (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars, pick-up trucks, vans
             and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction equipment, and other heavy equipment
             shall not be permitted to be brought to the home by employees.

             (vi) That any increase in the number of employees does not result in an increase of
             customers visiting the property that would exceed allotted customers per day as specified by
             this title.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage on vehicles parked

             at the home.


18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations
must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are
unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may
pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

(1) Hours. With the exception of short term rentals, no visitors in conjunction with the home
occupation (clients, patrons, employees, volunteers, students, pupils, etc.) shall be permitted
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

(2) Traffic. Vehicular traffic from business-related visitors and customers shall not exceed that
which normally and reasonably occurs for a home in the neighborhood. With the exception of
short term rentals the home occupation shall be limited to two business-related visitors or
customers per hour, to a maximum of eight business-related visitors or customers per day.
Business-related deliveries or pickups scheduled by the business owner shall not exceed two per
day.
 Report by: LH
(3) Repealed by Ord. 20-05.

(4) Conducted in a Home. When business activities are being conducted on the property that is to
be licensed, the home occupation shall be conducted within the principal home or enclosed areas.

(5) Maximum Floor Space. With the exception of short term rentals, no more than 25 percent of
the total main floor area and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit shall be used for home
occupation. As an alternative to use of main and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit, up to 50
percent of the basement of a home unit may be utilized for home occupation.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
          2.     Application.
          3.     Site Plan.
          4.     Street View.




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, April 13, 2023 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Zilpah Saena is requesting a conditional use for a home occupation “J-ROC Pressure Washing LLC”
to be located at 13645 S. Mount Cortina Way. She states that she will have 1 employee and seeks
permission to park one work truck in the garage. No customers will come to the home.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
