                      RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               MEETING MINUTES
                                 JUNE 12, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Darren Park, Chair                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Shelly Cluff
Evan Matheson
Troy Rushton

1.           CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

Chair Park led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     “FIREFLY ROASTERS CUHO”, PLZ-25-2017, AN APPLICATION FOR A
             CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A HOME OCCUPATION ROASTING
             AND SELLING COFFEE BEANS TO BE LOCATED AT 3726 WEST
             MERCED CIRCLE. APPLICANT – JEREMY HENRIE.

Lisa Halversen, planner, presented the Staff Report and stated that this application is
unique. The property is located at 3726 West Merced Circle in the northwestern part of
the City near 11900 South and 3700 West. The property is .36-acre in size and zoned
R-3 as are the surrounding properties. The home is one story with an attached three-car
garage. To the left of the home is a detached garage. The applicant would like to use
half of the detached garage for his business. The applicant, Jeremy Henrie, is proposing
to roast green coffee beans to produce specialty coffee. His business plan will help fund
his international visits to do charitable medical work with surgical organizations.
Mr. Henrie plans to sell his products online on a subscription basis. Orders will be mailed
to the customers. No customers are expected to come to the home except in rare
circumstances. Ms. Halversen explained that the Home Occupation Code allows for a
maximum of eight customers per day.

The property has a wide drive approach in the event parking is ever needed. Mr. Henrie
has no employees but could potentially depending on the success of the business. Off-
street parking will be available for that employee. Drawings of the detached garage were
presented. The area will be divided equally between business and personal use as
allowed by Code. The application is before the Commission because the applicant would
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
June 12, 2025


like to use his accessory building space for business use, which requires a Conditional
Use Permit (“CUP”). In addition, due to the nature of the business staff feels the matter
should be brought to the Commission for discussion and a decision. The request is new
and some public input was received.

The applicant is proposing to use the garage; however, the roasting process naturally will
create odors. The fixed standards in the Home Occupation Code state that a business
that creates odors is not eligible as a home occupation. When Ms. Halversen discussed
the matter with Mr. Henrie, she was informed that he will be purchasing a specialty roaster
with built-in filters that allow it to vent inside the building. Outside ventilation is not
needed.

Mr. Henrie gave a demonstration earlier in the week for his neighbors to show how the
process works. The Commission should determine whether that is sufficient to meet the
Code requirements. The roaster Mr. Henry will use does not require additional utility or
power upgrades or additional building changes to his garage. It will fit on top of his
counter. Ms. Halversen explained that the Commission does not have discretion to
change the fixed standards but they do have discretion to determine if any conditions
should be imposed to bring the proposal into compliance. A mailer was sent out and staff
received a comment early on from someone outside the 300-foot radius who was
concerned about odors. Staff had some back-and-forth communication with this
individual who was invited to the demonstration.

A comment was also received earlier in the day that was provided to the Commission
members. A total of three comments were received, all expressing concerns about odor.
Ms. Halversen explained that the Home Occupation Code allows up to 50% business use
for an accessory building. The proposed business meets that standard. The fixed
standards were reviewed. Number 14 specifies that the home occupation shall not create
or be associated with or produce odors, smoke, dust, heat, or fumes. The Commission
should determine if there are conditions that can be imposed to mitigate that.

Commissioner Rushton commented that the State passed an enabling clause a few years
back that allowed for home-based cooking and food production businesses. He asked if
this request falls under that clause. Ms. Halversen confirmed that it does. The applicant,
would, however, still be required to go through the County Health Department and the
State Department of Agriculture. Commissioner Rushton asked if there are other food
production businesses in the City in a detached structure. Ms. Halversen confirmed that
there are several home bakeries that prepare food, she did not know off-hand about any
that use detached structures. She was not aware of any conditions having been imposed
on a food production operation with regard to smells.

Commissioner Matheson felt the request should be allowed if there are no strong odors.
That seemed to be the main issue. Input from those who attended the demonstration
was that there was no odor and very little noise. He recalled that some years ago a sewer
system was installed and there were complaints from residents. A membrane was put in
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    3
June 12, 2025


that resolved the issue. Ultimately, if there are odors and neighbors complain, Code
Enforcement would be sent out and refer the matter back to the Commission, if needed.
Commissioner Matheson had no objection as long as the filtration system is effective.

A question was raised as to whether the applicant has produced any literature or materials
that would support the claims that there will be no odor. Ms. Halversen had seen the
picture and secondhand information provided by the applicant about the filtration system.

Commissioner Cannon stated that in his office a handful of people drink coffee. He is not
a coffee drinker but has not prohibited them from doing so in a closed environment. He
does, however, have them cap it because there are people in the room who do not like
the smell of coffee. While he is not an expert on what coffee smells like when it goes into
the air and if it permeates the neighbors’ yard, he would hate to see someone make such
a large investment and then be shut down if there are smells that impact the neighbors.

Mr. Henrie reported that he took over a charitable organization two years ago that
performs free surgeries in other countries. He reported that a few months earlier they did
122 surgeries in five days on children, adults, and low-income individuals. He has found
that it is difficult to obtain funding. Profits will go to the charity to help fund surgery
missions in other countries and allow them to expand. The business idea came to him as
a result of his experiences. The roaster is not a standard industrial-type roaster that
requires a smokestack and generates smells. It is designed to be inside a coffee shop
so that the shop can brew its own coffee and sell it directly to its customers while it is
fresh.

The roaster is designed to not require smokestacks and resulting smells. A filtration
system uses organic substances to reduce smells to almost nothing. Mr. Henrie roasted
a few batches of coffee and stood outside the building, walked around the building and
the yard, and could not smell anything. He wanted to also invite his neighbors over since
the only issue he was aware of was the potential for smells. He wanted other people to
experience what he had. He was not looking to disturb anyone or cause problems. He
spoke to only one person who was concerned about smell. After coming to his home and
seeing how the process works they had no complaints. He has also spoken to other
neighbors who did not smell anything.

Commissioner Cluff had heard that Mr. Henrie intends to bring beans back from
international locations and asked if it will be handled by US Customs. She also inquired
as to how the applicant will ensure that they are following all rules associated with bringing
food products into the U.S. Mr. Henry stated that to do it that way involves a huge supply
chain process. If he were to go that route, it would take place far into the future. Currently,
the green beans will come from the same company that manufactures the coffee roaster.
It is no different than buying them from Amazon. He envisioned most of his customers to
be volunteers from the charity or those who support the charity and want to help with
funding. If it were to expand exponentially and become substantial he would not operate
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 4
June 12, 2025


the business from his property and would move to a larger facility with multiple employees
and roasters.

Chair Park commented that as the Planning Commission considers the application they
have to be concerned about the impact it will create. The impact of greatest concern was
odor. He asked that Mr. Henrie provide documentation that might help substantiate his
claims. Mr. Henrie reported that he reached out to the coffee company and provided staff
with a flyer containing a QR code that goes directly to the manufacturer’s website where
there are specifications for the roaster. He spoke directly to the manufacturing company
that provides references for the filtration system and cuts down on anything toxic including
smells as a byproduct.

Commissioner Cannon asked Mr. Henrie how he will respond if Code Enforcement is
called in. Mr. Henry stated that he would view it as a worst-case scenario and go
somewhere else. He could potentially put a smaller room around the inside of the garage
to provide a double layer to prevent smells from escaping. Any vent or window in the
garage could be equipped with a filter to ensure that any air that is escaping does not
have a smell associated with it.

Commissioner Cannon shared a situation in South Jordan where a man had a home-
based business that was approved for cabinet making. The use involved the constuction,
staining, and painting of the cabinets. He had a very elaborate filter system but there
were air quality and odor issues. The business was ultimately shut down. Commissioner
Cannon commended Mr. Henrie for the good he is doing in the world but wanted to
determine what steps he was willing to take if there are issues. Mr. Henry stated that he
takes educated risks, which was why he was asked to take over the charity. He has an
entrepreneurial mindset as well. To him, the worst-case scenario would be for the
business to get approved and ultimately have to move to a different location. He saw that
as a possibility.

Commissioner Rushton suggested that neighbors were seeing it differently because the
business involves coffee. Many in the community have smokers for meat while others
add chlorine to their pools, which produce odors. His opinion was that what happens on
your personal property is your business but reasonable precautions should be taken. He
considered the smell issue to be an over-exaggeration. The applicant has taken steps to
purchase equipment, demonstrated it, and invited the neighbors in. He considered it
unfair for the Commission to ask how he would handle a complaint. Commissioner
Rushton stated that it would go to Code Enforcement like anything else. Conditions are
placed on home-based businesses regularly with a clear understanding that if there is a
complaint, it goes to Code Enforcement who will determine whether there is a legitimate
violation. Commissioner Rushton was very impressed by how the applicant handled the
situation. He went door-to-door and invited his neighbors to come to his home to
demonstrate what he is trying to do in a proactive manner.

Commissioner Park opened the public hearing.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              5
June 12, 2025



Brenda Hook gave her address as 3713 Shasta Circle to the north of the subject property.
She has lived in the home for four years and has redone the landscaping and put in a
new back patio area. She enjoys spending time outside with family and was concerned
when she first heard what was proposed. She grew up in a family of coffee drinkers but
is not one herself. She noted that the smell does not bother her but it does her husband.
She has learned that Mr. Henrie’s roasting process differs from grinding and brewing.
Each creates a different odor. For her husband, the brewing creates problems. She
attended the demonstration and was very impressed. Mr. Henrie is a newer member of
the neighborhood and she was pleased that he would take the time to reach out to all of
the neighbors to describe what he is trying to do. She was informed that roasting was
taking place and stated that during a recent family gathering on her back patio she had
no idea it was taking place. As a close neighbor, Ms. Hook was not opposed to what is
proposed.

Amy Goodrich reported that she lives directly next door to the subject property. She
appreciated Mr. Henrie’s transparency and informing the neighbors of his new business
venture. She was working outside the day the demonstration took place and did not smell
anything. They also went to the demonstration and was very impressed. The roaster
was very small and nice. As a neighbor, she expressed her support.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Park appreciated Commissioner Rushton's effort to attend the demonstration to for
sharing first-hand knowledge as to what that experience was like. He informed Mr. Henrie
that the Commission wants him to succeed but they have to do their due diligence to
ensure that the ordinances are adhered to and that there are no negative impacts on the
neighbors.

Commissioner Matheson expressed his support for and appreciation of the testimony of
the neighbors and Commissioner Rushton.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
2017, “Firefly Roasting”, at 3726 West Merced Circle subject to the following
conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and
             all applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the
             City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
             Fire Codes.

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
             agency approvals.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               6
June 12, 2025



      4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.     No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m.
             or after 7:00 p.m.

      6.     Applicant may employ one non-resident employee. Employee must
             use off-street parking.

      7.     Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for
             business activities.

      8.     Applicant must use roasting equipment with built-in air filtration that
             does not create outside odors.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion.               The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.


      B.     “DANSIE 2025 REZONE,” PLZ-25-4005, AN APPLICATION TO AMEND
             THE GENERAL PLAN AND REZONE APPROXIMATELY 2.32 ACRES
             LOCATED AT 3082 AND 3112 WEST 13400 SOUTH FROM RR-22
             (SINGLE-FAMLY ESTATE-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL) TO R-3 (SINGLE-
             FAMILY LOW-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL).

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that when considering
a rezone, the Planning Commission is to determine whether what is proposed is good for
the City and act as a recommending body to the City Council. Only a reasonable reason
is needed to recommend approval or denial. The subject property is part of the Dansie
Family property for which a rezone was completed in 2015. Notice was sent to neighbors
within 1,000 feet. An aerial view of the property was presented along with the rezone and
subdivision done in 2014, 2015, and 2016 to R3. The applicants would like to rezone
from R-22 to R3. The General Plan and Zoning Map were displayed. The Zoning Map
provides the current rules regarding what can be done with property in Riverton City and
aligns with City Code. The General Plan in 80% of the City matches the zoning. In other
areas, the City Council has said based on a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, that there are areas where they would consider changing the zoning. The
General Plan alerts the property owners and developers that the City may consider
making a change.

The subject property is designated Estate Density and Low Density in the General Plan
Map. Low Density is the equivalent of the R-3 Zone, and Estate Density is equivalent to
R-1 or RR-22, with 0.5-acre or larger lots and animal rights. Three neighboring properties
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
June 12, 2025


are zoned RR-22 but are nonconforming parcels of less than 0.5 acres. Mr. Prestwich
reported that, although not required, City Staff recommended amending the General Plan
in conjunction with the rezone request. The primary difference between the current RR-
22 Zone and the proposed R-3 Zone are lot size and animal rights. RR-22 includes animal
rights for 0.5-acre or larger lots.

Mr. Prestwich reported that two public comments were received from neighboring
property owners. The first letter was included in the Meeting Packet and requested an
eight-foot masonry fence along the shared property line. He reminded the Commission
that fencing would be reviewed during the Subdivision Plat process.

After the Planning Commission made a recommendation to approve or deny the
application, new notices would be sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject
property informing them of the date and location of the City Council meeting where the
application would be considered. The City Council could choose to follow the
Commission’s recommendation or take other action. If the zone change was approved,
the Applicant would submit a new application for a private lane, followed by an application
for a subdivision, both of which would be noticed to property owners within 300 feet of the
subject property.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
fencing and other site issues would be reviewed with the Subdivision Plat application.
City Code requires a six-foot masonry fence between non-animal rights and animal rights
properties, and he was unsure if the Planning Commission could require additional height.
He would discuss the matter with City Attorney, Ryan Carter prior to bringing it back
before the Commission. If the subdivision is less than two acres in size, the Planning
Commission could also decide that a solid masonry fence is not required.

The Applicant, Alan Prince of MP&G LLC stated that he has developed many infill projects
in his career. A project to the east of the subject property has a private lane that services
three homes, whereas his project would have a total of five homes. Other aspects of the
subdivisions, including home and lot size, are very similar. They intend to install a 25-
foot private lane that conforms with all City and County requirements. The shoulder will
be landscaped, and a fence will be installed along the Dansie property line to match the
existing fencing. The two existing parcels would be subdivided into six lots, but the Dansie
parcel would not be part of the subdivision. They will build a home for the Dansies’ son
on one lot, with single-family homes on the remaining four lots.

Commissioner Cannon commented that the trend is for smaller lots, but the future
subdivision would have approximately 0.33-acre lots.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prince stated that the subdivision will be
1.82 acres, including the private lane, with five 13,000 to 14,000-square-foot lots.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
June 12, 2025


In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Prince clarified that they will
build a home for the Dansies’ son on the lot directly behind the existing home, with four
additional lots to the west. The existing home will not be part of the new subdivision. He
then discussed fencing and indicated that the property owners to the west prefer that their
vinyl fencing remain, while Mrs. Dansie has indicated that she would prefer masonry
fencing on the eastern property line.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Anna Davis lives west of the subject property. She previously lived on a 0.50-acre lot and
everyone in the subdivision utilized their full lots. She now lives on a 0.33-acre lot. She
wanted to ensure that the lots were not smaller because it could lower her property values
and increase traffic.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich clarified that the
letter received from Liz Dansie was not relevant to the rezone request as it pertained to
fencing. Commissioner Rushton stated that he believes the property is an example of a
good infill project and is in line with properties to the north and east. He agreed with
Commissioner Cannon that large lots are rarely fully utilized.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, it was clarified that the private
lane will be 25 feet. City Code does not restrict the maximum number of lots on a private
lane, but Fire Code restricts it to 30 without a second access. To encourage infill
development, the City Council amended City Code to allow the area of a private lane to
be included in the gross lot size. When the Subdivision Plat comes before the Planning
Commission, it will specify the net lot acreage because setbacks are determined by net,
not gross acreage.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich reported that a 0.33-acre lot is
approximately 14,000 square feet.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of application PLZ-25-4005, “Dansie 2025 Rezone,” by amending the General Plan
to include both parcels in the “Low-Density Residential” General Plan designation
and rezoning the two subject properties to R-3 (single-family residential, 14,0000-
square-foot minimum lot size.) Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     “MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 27”, PLZ-25-8004, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN
             FOR 41 RESIDENTIAL UNITS ON APPROXIMATELY 6.5 ACRES
             LOCATED NEAR 13800 SOUTH SENTINEL RIDGE IN THE SLR ZONE.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
June 12, 2025



Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and reported that the Block Scale Plan was
previously approved, and construction on the previous phase should begin soon. The
Block Scale Plan, aerial map, and Subdivision Plat were reviewed. Phase 27 will include
a public road, the trail along Rose Creek, storm drain ponds, and internal infrastructure,
as well as 26 townhome units and 15 small single-family lots. The trail will be installed by
the developer and maintained by the HOA but will include a public access easement and
connect to the City trail network at the Welby Jacob Canal Trail.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Edge Homes maintained the same engineer throughout all
phases of the project, and Ensign Engineering and Land Surveying now understand what
the City needs. Staff anticipates that the few remaining redlines will be approved quickly
after Planning Commission approval. He then reviewed the proposed Conditions of
Approval.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the timeframe for the pedestrian bridge. Mr.
Prestwich stated that plans are in review, but he was unsure of the project timing. Edge
Homes will install the trail along Rose Creek and it will connect to the trail in Herriman.

Brandon Watson of Edge Homes stated that he had nothing to add to Mr. Prestwich’s
presentation but was available to answer any questions. In response to a question from
Commissioner Rushton, he reported that January was a busy sales month, followed by
two slower months. Sales have picked back up over the past two months. He estimated
that approximately 50% of people who purchase from Edge Homes are first-time buyers.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Watson reported that the overall project,
including both Riverton and Herriman, is between one-half and two-thirds occupied. The
original estimate was to complete the project in 10 years, and they are five years in.
Riverton’s support of commercial growth in the area has helped make it a prime location.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-25-8004, “Mountain Ridge Phase 27” Final Plan, to be located near 13800
South Sentinel Ridge Boulevard, subject to the following conditions:

       1.     This Phase shall comply with the terms and conditions approved with
              the Block Scale Plan, and with the SLR Project Area Master
              Development Agreement.

       2.     Site Improvements shall be consistent with the plans presented to the
              Planning Commission except where otherwise noted in this approval.

       3.     Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                      10
June 12, 2025


      4.    The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable
            Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, including the International
            Building and Fire Codes.

      5.    Applicant must create a Long-Term Storm Water Management Plan or
            Covenant to Maintain the private storm drain system as required by
            City ordinance.

      6.    Developer will install a trail along Rose Creek as shown on the plans.
            The trail will be owned and maintained by the HOA. The trail will have
            a public access easement.

      7.    Per Fire Department Requirements, no more than 30 units may be
            occupied using a single access from Sentinel Ridge. Additional units
            may be occupied when a second access connects the units to Sentinel
            Ridge or 13800 South.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion.          The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.


4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    NONE.


5.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:00 PM.
