                              MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             April 14, 2022
Subject:          PLZ-22-2006 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Camery’s Daycare”, to
                  4847 West Victorine Street. Applicant-Camery Jacobsen


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2006 “Camery’s Daycare”, to 4847 West
Victorine Street with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may have up to 10 children per day (number includes the applicant’s
       children under 6-years old).
    6. The Home Occupation may have up to 8 vehicle trips per day by customers.
    7. Staggered pick-up and drop-off times are required.
    8. Hours of operation 7am to 7pm.
    9. Home Occupation may utilize the area in the home as shown on the plans.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “Camery’s Daycare” an in-
home daycare to be located at 4847 West Victorine Street. The property is a townhome in the
“Villas at Monarch Meadows Ph18 Condo” project, it is zone SP RM-12 and is part of the
Monarch Meadows Specific Plan. The neighborhood has 16 buildings, with each building having
4 to 6 units in a row style (shared walls but no stacked units). The applicant’s unit is a center unit
in a building with six row houses. Each unit has a two-car garage and two-car wide driveway.
The units are about 1,000-sf of living space and include a small private backyard.


The applicant is requesting approval of a conditional use home occupation for an in-home
daycare. She describes her business as: “An at home Daycare to watch/care for up to 10
 Report by: TJP
children at a time.” She would be the only employee, she would operate 7am to 5pm, and
expects 2-3 cars to come to her house each day. Visitors could park in the driveway or in the
visitor parking. She expects staggered pick-ups and drop-off times.


Daycares have special rules in both State Law and in our City Home Occupation Ordinance.
Some of the City Ordinances are in response to State Law which encourages and enables in
home day care. The result is that Child Daycare is allowed more visitors per day and more trips
per day than a typical home occupation.


This application comes to the Commission because the ordinance says any child day care or
other child group activity that exceeds 8 children/students per day is a conditional use.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval the home occupation with conditions listed above. Including
allowing up to ten (10) children in the daycare per day, and a maximum of eight (8) vehicle trips
per day by the customers.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. The notices generated several phone calls with questions and concerns. The calls were
mostly concerns about additional traffic and parking, and some concerns about safety and noise.
Written comments are attached to this report. Additionally, City staff was informed the Community
HOA was notified about proposed home occupation and had no rules prohibiting it.




 Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only
sees applications that are requesting permission for certain things as defined by
ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to
approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: TJP
        18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.

        The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
        to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
        commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
        exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:




        (9) Child day care and other group child activities (e.g., dance schools, preschools, music
        classes, other care, or instruction for children) that are expected to generate or exceed eight
        children/students any day. The following guidelines shall be used by the planning commission to
        determine the maximum number of students/children permitted:

        (a) A traffic plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning department, which includes
        acceptable traffic flow, drop-off and turnaround areas.

        (b) A maximum of 12 students/children per session and a maximum of 24 students/children per
        day shall be permitted.

        (c) A maximum of three sessions per day may be permitted.

        (d) All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicular trips per day.

        (e) The total number of students/children shall include the licensee’s and any employees’
        children if they are under six years of age and are under the care of the licensee at the time the
        home occupation is conducted.

        (f) No child day care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation may be
        established within 300 feet as measured from property line to property line of another child day
        care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
          2.     Application.
          3.     Site Plan.
          4.     Street View.
          5.     Public Comments.
          6.     Home Occupation Evaluation Sheet.




Report by: TJP
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, April 14, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Camery Jacobsen is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Camery’s Home Daycare”, an in-
home day care to be located at 4847 West Victorine Street.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3124.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3138. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertonutah.gov
Shirleen Boska

From:                        JOHN SCHULIST <jschulist@comcast.net>
Sent:                        Sunday, March 20, 2022 11:39 PM
To:                          Planning
Subject:                     Comments on Camery Jacobsen home based business at 4847 W Victorine Street



To: Riverton, Ut planning department

From: Kristina & John Schulist living at 4839 W Victorine and directly effected by proposed business.

We have a few concerns about such a business next to our townhome. First and foremost, there is
very limited parking in our neighborhood of Monarch Meadows townhomes. The parking area is a
block away from the proposed business. Also, there is only about 12 feet of curbside parking between
our driveways. Every time the townhome next to us has company over, due to the lack of parking,
one of their guests usually partially blocks our driveway (even if only a few feet). This problem will be
greatly exacerbated on a daily basis with the type of business in question with dropping off and
picking up of children. While each car might only be there 5 to 10 minutes at a time, it will cause
undo interference to the entry of our driveway on a probable daily basis. Second, the backyards in our
sub division are very small and would not provide a suitable play area for the children in the daycare.
There would also be the possibility of extra outdoor noise on a daily basis that would lower the quality
of life for those in the townhomes behind and next to the business. Right now, there is very little
noise at any given time of the day for those wanting to enjoy their yards in a quiet setting.

We would support the home based daycare business next door to our townhome only if these two
concerns could be addressed to our satisfaction by the city of Riverton, the planning department and
the business owners.

Thanks for your consideration of our concerns.




                                                    1
From:           Cece Child
To:             Planning
Subject:        Home based day in question?
Date:           Thursday, March 17, 2022 3:03:31 PM


Good afternoon I received a letter of intent for a daycare on 4847 w Victorians street riverton.
I am against this idea in every way. I am working and unable to make it to the meeting on the
24th.
Here are my concerns and questions. First questions

How many kids is she planning on and are they family related or just anyone?
Ages of the children she will want to have?
Does she have a dog?
She is in the middle of the complex so when people drop off and pick up the kids, where do
they park for this?

Here is my issues.
If she owns a dog how can she guarantee the kids won't open the door and let the dog out? Go
have seen this happen).

Family I understand but our complex is not meant for children who are not part of our
community or friends of our community. She will be allowing the kids to play at the complex
park I'm sure and I don't want them to overrun the kids on our area in the summer because
The grass areas are for the community. daycare kids (in my experience) seem to think that
while at daycare they are entitled to play areas and act like they are in charge of that area even
 if they are not part of the actual residence.

How many children is a big deal. My street is north of this one and we have great families that
watch their kids and teach them to watch and wait for cars. They are polite and well watched
when playing outside. There is always at least 1 parent out with them. We have had residence
that let their kids run the neighborhood. They have since moved and we don't want to run the
risk of children walking out of cars (it's really easy on a bike to come from the big park into
the complex and not pay attention, it has happened a lot) I don't want to deal with having to
pay attention to out of complex peoples kids when they are not paying attention because there
is no parent to talk to about it.

 Also how are treats managed because we had parents who would give kids capri suns and
gogurts. The wrappers ended up all over the neighborhood so did bikes, scooters and toys. Our
community looked like trash all the time. I ran over a scooter that was in MY driveway gutter.
The angle it was at and the darkness made it hard to see and I hit it going into my own
driveway. We don't have kids living at home so it definitely was not from my house and it
dented my car. No one claimed the scooter and there were so many that were left out nothing
was done about the dent. How can she guarantee wrappers and toys will be taken care of.

The ages are a big deal because the older they are the more freedom I am afraid they will get.
How will they be monitored? Is there a structured schedule or just a babysitting at home and
listed as a daycare?

Parking is already a problem with people parking on both sides of the street so you can't get
past them without another car coming. Because the visitor parking isn't close will they think
it's ok to park on the street? If they are talking on the phone and need an extra minute before
picking up the kids, (my job is close to a daycare and this happens often) I am afraid they will
be in the way of another house who wants to pull out or makes it harder for the traffic flow
during certain times of the day.

Being from a complex like this, there isn't room for a self functioning daycare because you
have to rely on community items (play areas) to support your daycare. What happens when a
child is hurt on the community playground? Who is responsible for the insurance? If a child
does damage to another persons property because they decide to throw something at the side
of the home next to the grass areas (our windows are hit with kids playing ball next to our
house all the time and we have to tell them to play something else before the windows are
broke) what if they are the ones who end up braking a windows? We have brittle vinyl fencing
that the kids like to stand on the break. My HOA fees along the with parents of those kids go
to cover the costs. Is there daycare insurance for this or does the HOA have to eat the cost for
them as well? Kids have been on bikes, power cars and playing with balls that have hit parked
cars in our neighborhood. (In their driveways). The parents here on my street are good to talk
to the owners but the kids that hit our house windows are from another street and the parents
aren't around. If a car is damaged who is responsible? The parents? The daycare? The owner
of the damaged property? Is she planning on watching the kids at all times to help prevent his?

My vote is no!

If you have answers to my questions please let me know.
Courtnie and Brian Montgomery.
18.190.090 Prohibited home occupations.
The following uses are not compatible with residential uses, and in order to protect the health, safety and
welfare of residents from noise, nuisance, traffic, fire hazard and other possible business uses that are in
excess of that customarily associated with the neighborhood, the following uses are prohibited:

 (1) Mortuaries, crematoriums, columbariums, or mausoleums.

 (2) Animal hospitals and veterinary services.

 (3) Clinics, dental offices, medical offices, chiropractic offices, or hospitals.

 (4) Junkyards, auto wrecking yards or salvage yards.

 (5) Stables, kennels, pet stores or any other commercial animal breeding or similar
 activities.

 (6) Storage, service, repair, sales or rental of ambulance, tow truck, recreational
 vehicle, watercraft, automobiles, ATV, or other motorized vehicles.

 (7) Food or drink preparations, storage or catering, which is not permitted by the
 appropriate state or county department or agency.

 (8) Fitness or health spa facility.

 (9) Lawn mower or small engine sales, service or repair.

 (10) Auto body repair, motor vehicle repair.

 (11) Manufacturing and/or mechanical product assembly, other than small scale
 arts, crafts, and hobby work. Use of hazardous chemicals, pesticides and
 flammable/combustible materials, and any other process or business where current,
 adopted building and fire codes would require an operational permit.

 (12) Number of vehicular stops/or visits exceeds 24 per day.

 (13) Sexually oriented business.

 (14) Treatment centers or counseling for persons who are violent or being treated
 for alcoholism or drug abuse.

 (15) Repealed by Ord. 20-05.

 (16) Outdoor seasonal retail sales/services such as Christmas trees, fireworks,
 pumpkin patches, haunted houses, corn mazes, etc., except where such uses are
 for products produced entirely on site.
18.190.060 Fixed standards.
Permitted home occupations and conditional use home occupations must comply with these fixed
standards at all times. The applicant shall submit drawings, sketches, documentation and/or photos as
required by staff to demonstrate compliance with these standards.

                                            Criteria                                           Y/N
 (1) Bona Fide Resident. The home occupation business shall be owned by and
 carried on only by a bona fide resident of the home.
       (a) A “bona fide resident” is defined as an individual who:
              (i) Resides in the home a minimum of 185 days in the calendar year; and
              (ii) Is a resident of Riverton City and the state of Utah for all tax
              purposes.
 (2) Satellite Office Not Allowed. Business activities shall not be conducted at the
 home of an employee of a company, by nonresident company employees. However,
 a home occupation shall not be construed to mean an employee, working in his/her
 home in the service of an employer whose principal place of business is licensed at
 another location.
 (3) Accessory Use on the Property. The home occupation shall be clearly secondary
 and incidental to the primary use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.
 (4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be
 employed, volunteer, or work on the premises wherein the home occupation
 business is located. And only one nonresident employee may work at the home at
 one time regardless of the number of home occupations.

       (a) The planning commission may grant an exception to this requirement and
       allow additional employees working at the home with a conditional use permit
       if the applicant can demonstrate they meet the following qualifications:

            (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all
            employee and business-related vehicles and that on-street parking will
            not be necessary.

            (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the
            residential integrity of the property and shall not displace any required
            front yard landscaping.

            (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted
            amounts as specified in this title.

            (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
            and 7:00 p.m.

            (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars,
            pick-up trucks, vans and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction
            equipment, and other heavy equipment shall not be permitted to be
            brought to the home by employees.

            (vi) That any increase in the number of employees does not result in an
            increase of customers visiting the property that would exceed allotted
            customers per day as specified by this title.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage
             on vehicles parked at the home.
 (5) Off-Site Employees. Any home occupation may utilize employees to work off
 site. The off-site employee, volunteer, agent or any other person engaged with the
home occupation shall not come to the home for purposes related to the home
occupation license unless otherwise approved with a conditional use permit by the
planning commission.
(6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the
home occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided
and use off-street parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers,
clients or business-related visitor vehicles.
(7) Vehicle Advertisement. Vehicles or equipment may not be used for the primary
purpose of advertising the home occupation at the site of the home occupation.
(8) Designating Areas of Property to Be Used. The home occupation applicant must
designate the portion of the home, accessory structure, yard, attached or detached
garage dedicated as the principal location for business activities.
(9) External Appearance. The home occupation must maintain or improve the
external residential appearance of the principal structure, attached or detached
garage or accessory structures. Any structural alterations to accommodate the
home occupation shall maintain the architectural aesthetics and compatibility of the
neighborhood.
(10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any
unscreened or unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but
not limited to, home occupation events or activities; and storage or display of
supplies, inventory or equipment when such use is in conjunction with the sales,
service or production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the home
occupation must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.
(11) Conformity with Safety Codes. There shall be complete conformity with fire,
building, plumbing, electrical and all other city, county, state and federal codes.
(12) Health and Safety. No process can be used which is hazardous to public
health, safety, morals or welfare.
(13) No Excessive Utility Uses. The home occupation shall not cause a demand for
municipal, community or utility services that are substantially in excess of those
usually and customarily provided for residential uses.
(14) Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not
substantially, unreasonably and uncharacteristically interfere or disrupt the peace,
quiet and domestic tranquility of the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not
create or be associated with or produce odor, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare,
noises or vibrations, excessive traffic or other nuisances, including interferences
with radio and television reception or any other adverse effects within the
neighborhood.
(15) Renter/Owner Responsibility. If the applicant for a home occupation license
rents or leases the property wherein the home occupation is intended to be
conducted, the applicant must provide a letter of acknowledgment and consent from
the property owner at the time the application is submitted to the license office.
(16) Interior Alterations/Remodeling. Interior alterations of the principal dwelling, for
the purpose of accommodating the home occupation, are prohibited if such
alteration eliminates the kitchen, and/or all of the dining areas, bathrooms, living
areas or all of the bedrooms.
18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations must
also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are unable to fully
comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may pursue possible approval
as a conditional use home occupation.

 (1) Hours. With the exception of short term rentals, no visitors in conjunction with the
 home occupation (clients, patrons, employees, volunteers, students, pupils, etc.)
 shall be permitted between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
 (2) Traffic. Vehicular traffic from business-related visitors and customers shall not
 exceed that which normally and reasonably occurs for a home in the neighborhood.
 With the exception of short term rentals the home occupation shall be limited to two
 business-related visitors or customers per hour, to a maximum of eight business-
 related visitors or customers per day. Business-related deliveries or pickups
 scheduled by the business owner shall not exceed two per day.
 (3) Repealed by Ord. 20-05.
 (4) Conducted in a Home. When business activities are being conducted on the
 property that is to be licensed, the home occupation shall be conducted within the
 principal home or enclosed areas.
 (5) Maximum Floor Space. With the exception of short term rentals, no more than 25
 percent of the total main floor area and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit shall be
 used for home occupation. As an alternative to use of main and upper floor areas of
 the dwelling unit, up to 50 percent of the basement of a home unit may be utilized
 for home occupation.
 (6) Signs. The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat
 sign. The sign must be placed either in a window or on the exterior wall of the home
 wherein the home occupation is being conducted, and may not have an area greater
 than four square feet.
 (7) Display of Products. The home occupation may include the sale of tangible
 goods. Direct sales from display apparatus are permitted only if the goods or
 products are not visible from the exterior of any approved structure being used for
 the home occupation.
 (8) Permitted home occupations involving child day care and other child group
 activities shall also comply with the following:

       (a) The home occupation shall not exceed eight children, associated with child
       day care or other child group activities (e.g., dance schools, preschool, music
       classes, etc.) at any one time. A maximum of eight students/children are
       permitted per day. This number shall include the licensee’s own children if
       they are under six years of age and are under the care of the licensee at the
       time the home occupation is conducted.

       (b) No other permitted child day care or child group activities are within 300
       feet of the proposed home occupation.

       (c) All child day care shall be allowed to provide safe, outdoor play time in
       designated areas.

       (d) Outdoor play areas shall be fenced in accordance with Riverton City
       fencing standards and shall have a self-locking gate.
18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined to be
compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning commission, all
of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an exception through the
conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

 (1) More Than Two Home Occupation Licenses. Any home where the applicant(s)
 are seeking more than two permitted or conditional home occupation licenses.

 (2) Workshops. Workshops, including carpentry, small scale sheet metal work,
 furniture making, upholstery and other similar activities.

 (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes
 or conducts activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached
 garage. The following guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts
 permitted:

       (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of
       the home, attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used
       for the home occupation and, if approved, the home occupation may be
       conducted only in the designated area.

       (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure
       or attached or detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The
       planning commission may grant an exception for parcels of at least one-half
       acre.

       (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for
       architectural aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate
       neighborhood.

       (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign
       to be attached to the accessory structure where the home occupation is being
       conducted, in lieu of the sign attached to the home or in a window. The sign
       may not have an area greater than four square feet.

 (4) Home Occupations and Outdoor Activities. Any home occupations proposing to
 conduct business utilizing any yard space, or in a swimming pool.

 (5) Dangerous Home Occupations. Any home occupation using explosives,
 incendiary products and devices, or flammable or hazardous chemicals.

 (6) Home Occupations Generating Excessive Traffic. Any home occupation which
 will generate in excess of two customers or visitors per hour or six per day. A
 maximum of 12 business-associated visitors per day may be allowed under a
 conditional use permit, except as provided for with child day care and other group
 child activities.

 (7) Large, Business-Related Vehicles. Any home occupation which utilizes vehicles
 longer than 24 feet in length.

 (8) Food or Beverage Preparation. Any home occupation involving or proposing to
 involve food or drink preparation, storage or catering.
(9) Child day care and other group child activities (e.g., dance schools, preschools,
music classes, other care or instruction for children) that are expected to generate or
exceed eight children/students any day. The following guidelines shall be used by
the planning commission to determine the maximum number of students/children
permitted:

      (a) A traffic plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning
      department, which includes acceptable traffic flow, drop-off and turnaround
      areas.

      (b) A maximum of 12 students/children per session and a maximum of 24
      students/children per day shall be permitted.

      (c) A maximum of three sessions per day may be permitted.

      (d) All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicular trips per
      day.

      (e) The total number of students/children shall include the licensee’s and any
      employees’ children if they are under six years of age and are under the care
      of the licensee at the time the home occupation is conducted.

      (f) No child day care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation
      may be established within 300 feet as measured from property line to property
      line of another child day care or group child activities, conditional use home
      occupation.

(10) Any home occupation requesting more than one full-time or full-time equivalent
nonresidential employee or volunteer working in any business-related capacity.
