                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 25, 2025
Subject:         “Auto Dealership In C-G Zone Text Amendment,” PLZ-24-5008,
                 Amendments to the “Table of Commercial Uses” and the Conditional Uses in
                 the C-G Zone. Proposed by Riverton City.

This is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of application PLZ-24-5008, “Auto
Dealership in the C-G Zone Text Amendment” by amending the Riverton City Table of
Commercial Uses and Riverton City C-G Zone as presented.

Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of application PLZ-24-5008, “Auto
Dealership in the C-G Zone Text Amendment”.

Background
This is a public hearing to consider proposed changes to Riverton City Code to make Auto
Dealerships (New or used) a Conditional Use in the Commercial Gateway (C-G) Zone, and add
conditions for auto dealerships in the C-G zoning chapter.

These changes are proposed by Riverton City after a car dealer met with some public officials
and presented an idea for an auto dealership in an area with C-G zoning. City officials thought
the idea was worth discussing and to consider making changes to City Code.

A zone text change is a legislative recommendation by the Planning Commission. City Council
will have the final decision in a separate public hearing.
The City’s Table of Commercial Uses found in Chapter 18.90 of Riverton City Code lists several
uses and designates these uses The table lists several commercial uses and designates these
uses as P- Permitted, C- Conditional, or NP- Not Permitted. One of the uses listed is “Auto
Dealership (New or Used) as shown here:




The land use ““Auto Dealership (New or Used)” is a Permitted in the C-R and PCC zones, and
“Not Permitted” in the C-D, C-G, C-N, and C-PO Zones.

The proposed change would list Auto dealerships as Conditional in the C-G zone and add
conditions in the C-G Chapter.

The proposed conditions would limit Auto Dealerships to areas along 12600 South and
Bangerter Highway (see attached).

Unlike a rezone which changes the zoning of a specific property, changing the Table of Uses
applies to all the properties in the City with that zoning. In this case, all property zoned C-G
could apply for a Conditional Use to have am auto dealership.

The Purpose of the Commercial Gateway Zone is explained in Riverton City Code 18.70.010:
     18.70.010 Purpose.

      The “Gateway,” as established by area and definition in the Riverton City
      commercial district master plan, is where a combination of retail, professional
      businesses and related activities are encouraged and established. Regulations of
      this district are designed to provide a suitable environment for those commercial
      and service uses which can be well integrated with the adjacent mixed
      commercial and residential zones.

      The “Gateway” shall be any property aligned with main arteries, such as Redwood
      Road and 12600 South, at or near entrances to the city.



Public Notices and Response
When considering Zone Text Change applications, the Planning Commission makes a
recommendation to City Council. The City Council will make a final decision on this application
in a future City Council Meeting. The City notices the public meeting on the city webpage and the
Utah Noticing Website, but no direct mailers are sent since this impacts more than just one
location.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1. Proposed Changes to 189.90.010 Table of Commercial Uses, and 18.70.030
           Conditional Uses.
Proposed Changes to the C-G Zone


18.90.010 – Table of commercial uses.

                               LAND USE                                  C-D   C-G   C-N C-PO C-R   PCC
Apparel alteration and shoe repair                                       P      C    C    NP   P    P

Apparel and accessories retail and rental (apparel, accessories,
                                                                         P      P    NP   NP   P    P
tailoring, fur, shoes)

Artists and related services                                             C      C    NP   C    P    P

Assisted living facilities, nursing homes, residential care facilities   C      C    C    C    C    C

Auto parts retail                                                        C      C    NP   NP   P    P

Auto dealership (new or used)                                            NP    NPC   NP   NP   P    P




18.70.030 Conditional Uses. (In the Commercial Gateway Zone)
The following uses isare conditional, and may be considered within the C-G zone; provided, that
the regulations and intent of this zone are met:

(1) Storage units (except on any property or development adjacent to or having access to 12600
South east of the Bangerter Highway).

(2) Auto dealership (new or used) only on property (or combination of properties) of at least
one (1) acre having frontage on 12600 South and/or the Bangerter Highway. Such use must be
on a finished commercial site accompanied by approval of a Commercial Site Plan, and include
permanent and compliant office/sales building(s).
