                                  MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             March 28, 2024
Subject:          Zone Text Amendment: Amending Section 18.215.030(d) and 18.135.200,
                  updating and amending code relating to outdoor commercial lighting,
                  Amendments proposed by Riverton City


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion

I move the Planning Commission recommend adoption of the amendments to Sections
18.215.030(d) and 18.135.200, amending and updating Riverton City’s standards related to
outdoor commercial lighting, as described herein.

Background

As Riverton City’s commercial development has expanded, concerns regarding lighting within
commercial, office, and industrial uses, including where adjacent to residential communities, have
increased. The Riverton City lighting ordinances have not been updated for some time, and this
issue has been discussed with the City Council. The Council has directed Staff to prepare
amendments to the Land Use Code addressing outdoor lighting in commercial sites, including office
and industrial uses. One specific issue that has arisen is with temporary holiday lighting on
commercial buildings, which are not currently well-defined in Riverton City’s code.
Staff reviewed similar ordinances for several of the Salt Lake Valley cities, and identified issues
typically addressed in commercial exterior lighting codes, which include:
     •    Restrictions on placement of light sources in proximity to adjacent properties
     •    Time-of-day restrictions on different lighting types
     •    Direct vs indirect lighting- Ordinance language that refers to screening or shielding so that no
          lighting is visible from adjacent properties is typically addressing “direct” lighting, where the
          lighting source (bulb, etc) is visible. “Indirect” lighting is lighting that is visible even if the light
          source is not.
     •    Promotional / Holiday lighting and allowed time of day and display periods.
The proposed code amendments include better definitions and specifications for “shielded’ lighting,
as well as potential exemptions from that requirement for certain types of lighting or situations. The

Report by: JL
3/25/2024
amendment also addresses holiday lighting installation, with limitations on duration of display each
day and throughout the year.
The City Council has reviewed the proposed text in a work session, but input and feedback from the
Planning Commission is required before final consideration by the Council. Staff will present
additional information and detail at the public hearing.


Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Draft lighting ordinance language




Report by: JL
3/25/2024
Site Plan Development Standards: 18.215.030(d) Replacing existing language

General Regulations: 18.135.200 Commercial Lighting

   1. Unless specifically exempted by this section, all outdoor commercial lighting shall include fully shielded fixtures
      and shall be installed so light is directed downward with no direct light emitted above a horizontal plane
      extending out from the bottom of any light fixture. Lighting must not be placed at a location, angle, or height
      that makes the lighting source visible outside the property boundaries where the light fixtures are located.

   2. In order to qualify as a "fully shielded" fixture, a light fixture must meet all of the criteria below:
          a. The top and sides must be made of completely opaque material, such that light only escapes through
              the bottom of the fixture. Fixtures with translucent or transparent sides, or sides with perforations or
              slits, do not qualify as fully shielded. The light source must be entirely contained inside the opaque sides
              of the fixture housing.
          b. If mounted on or attached to a building or structure other than a parking lot light pole or a sign, the
              bottom of the light source (including all lenses, diffusers, reflectors, or similar elements) must be at least
              two inches higher than the bottom of the fixture housing.
          c. Surrounding structures such as eave overhangs, canopies, or patio covers are not to be considered in
              determining if a fixture is a fully shielded fixture. The fixture must be a fully shielded fixture in and of
              itself.
          d. If mounted on or attached to a building or structure other than a parking lot light pole, the light source
              of a fixture must not be visible from any point not on the property where the fixture is located.

   3. Exemptions to fully shielded fixture requirements:
         a. A fixture that has a total light output less than 1,000 lumens provided the fixture has sides that
             completely cover the light source and are made of opaque or semi opaque material. Completely
             transparent materials, such as clear glass, are not allowed. The light source must not be visible from any
             point outside the property on which the fixture is located.
         b. Lighting for security purposes, provided:
                   i. The lighting is placed and directed such that no direct illumination falls outside the property
                      boundaries where the security lighting is placed, or
                  ii. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and does not stay on for more than five minutes at a
                      time.
         c. Public Event Spaces lighting: Riverton City sponsored public events may use outdoor illumination as
             necessary to light the event space(s) and for the safety of the public. Lighting as necessary for public
             events may be also utilized for before and after the event for staging, preparation, rehearsals, clean-up,
             etc. Reasonable efforts will be made to mitigate impacts to surrounding areas.
         d. Parking Lot Pole Lighting: Lighting specific to illuminating a parking area and mounted on a pole shall
             meet the requirements for shielding as described in Sections 2.a, b, and c above, and shall make
             reasonable efforts to minimize visibility of the light source from adjacent properties.

   4. Specialized Outdoor Lighting
         a. Gas station canopies: Gas station canopies may be illuminated provided all light fixtures are mounted on
               the undersurface of the canopy and all light fixtures are fully shielded. Except for directed beam lighting,
               merely placing the fixtures on the underside of the canopy does not qualify as fully shielding the light
               fixture. Directed beam lighting mounted under the canopy is allowed, provided the light source cannot
               be seen from outside the property boundaries.
         b. Lighting of Flags: U.S. Code states that: “It is the universal custom to display the flag only from sunrise to
               sunset on buildings and flagstaffs in the open. However, when a patriotic effect is desired, the flag may
               be displayed twenty-four hours a day if properly illuminated during the hours of darkness.” The lighting
   of Federal or State flags shall be permitted provided that the light is a narrow beam spotlight rather than
   a floodlight, with the beam directed away from any public right-of-way and as feasible from adjacent
   residential properties.
c. Commercial Holiday Lighting:
          i. Commercial Holiday Lighting is defined as exterior lighting consisting of temporary or
             permanent strings, strips, clusters, or groups of individual lamps or bulbs, where the output per
             lamp or bulb is not greater than fifteen (15) lumens.
         ii. Commercial holiday lighting is a Conditional Use in all commercial zones, and may not be
             approved as part of Commercial Site Plan approval. Unless otherwise determined by the
             Planning Commission, commercial holiday lighting, either temporary or permanently installed,
             may be displayed from November 15 to January 15, and as noted below, provided such lighting
             does not create a hazard or nuisance as determined by the Planning Commission. Holiday
             lighting shall be turned off by eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. or the close of business, whichever is
             later, but shall not be kept on for more than 16 hours in a 24 hour period.
        iii. For commercial structures within 100 feet of residential property, flashing (blinking more than
             once per second) holiday lights and/or holiday lighting systems which move or are programed to
             simulate movement are prohibited, and holiday lighting shall be turned off by 10:30 P.M.
        iv. Additional restrictions may be included based on the Conditional Use permit review.
         v. Holiday lighting may also be displayed on the observed date for the following holidays
                  1. Valentines Day
                  2. Memorial Day
                  3. Juneteenth Day
                  4. Independence Day
                  5. Pioneer Day
                  6. Halloween Day
                  7. Veterans Day
                  8. Other dates as approved or directed by the City.
