                               MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           February 22, 2024
Subject:        PLZ-24-2001, Conditional Use, “Stone Ridge Veterinary Clinic,” at 1381
                West Stone Ridge Lane. Applicant – Stone Ridge Veterinary Clinic, R. Clay
                Cannon, DVM.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-2001, “Stone Ridge Veterinary Clinic,” at
1381 West Stone Ridge Lane with the following conditions:

     1. The site and structures may be added upon as shown in the plans presented to the
        Commission.
     2. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with all applicable Riverton City
        standards and ordinances, and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
     3. The applicant must obtain a Building Permit for the addition and have the addition
        inspected by the Riverton Building Department as required by City Ordinance.


Background

This is a hearing for the Planning Commission to determine if an existing non-conforming use
may be expanded by the applicant adding a covered dog run to an existing veterinary clinic.


Stone Ridge Veterinary Clinic is located at 1381 West Stone Ridge Lane (11840 South). It is
located inside a residential neighborhood, on property which is zoned R-3 (Single-Family
Residential, 14,000-sf lots). All the surrounding properties are also zoned for single family
residential use. Staff is not aware of any other legal commercial uses in this area.


Stone Ridge Veterinary Clinic sits on a corner lot which is nearly 1-acre (about 0.97-acres) in
size. The building has a residential design and look, but also many elements of a commercial
site plan such as a parking lot. Staff was unable to determine how long-ago Stone Ridge Clinic
was created, records suggest the initial structure was built in 1989 and several additions have


Report by TJP
been approved by the city in the years that followed. City Records show the Clinic made an
expansion in 2004 following city approval of an application to expand a non-conforming use—
very similar to this application.


The request in the current application is for permission to add a covered patio/porch area onto
the south side of the existing building, and inside the walled area to be used for sheltered outdoor
dog runs. The applicant describes the use on the application:




1-Description of the Proposed Use


The attached site plan and building elevations show the proposed covered area would attach to
the south end of the existing building and the roof line would match up with the existing 6-ft
masonry wall on the west side of the site. The applicant would like to attach board and batten
siding to a portion of the covered structure in the areas next to the wall, below the roofline,
downwards to the top of the wall. (The proposed board and batten is drawn in yellow).

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. The first notice left some neighbors wondering what was being proposed, so staff sent a
second notice with more details. Comments received by staff indicate the second notice
answered the neighbors’ questions and the neighbors did not express any further concerns. No
additional comments had been received at the time of this report.




Report by TJP
Ordinance and Issues

A non-conforming use is a land-use that legally existed before the properties current land use
designation, and which has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance
governing the land has changed, and because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes
the use does not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land. (See Title 18-
Definitions). To put it simply, the use was legal once, but the City ordinances changed, meanwhile the
property owners continued using the property as it was first approved.

Non-conforming Building, Uses and Lots in Riverton City are regulated by the rules and
requirements of Riverton City Code 18.200 “Non-conforming Building, Uses and Lots”, as quoted
below:


          18.200.020 Continuation, maintenance, repairs, and alterations.

          Except as herein specified, any use, building, structure, or lot, lawfully existing at the time of the
          enactment or subsequent amendment of this title, may be continued and maintained, even
          though such use, building, structure, or lot does not conform with the provisions of this title for
          the zone in which it is located. Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a
          nonconforming building or to a building housing a nonconforming use with a valid building
          permit, as provided in this chapter.

          A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the existing building in
          which it is conducted at the time the use became nonconforming. [Code 1997 § 12-150-010.]

          18.200.030 Additions, enlargements, and moving.

          A building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use or a building or structure
          nonconforming as to height, area or yard regulations shall not be added to or enlarged in any
          manner or moved to a new location on the lot except where a permit is authorized by the
          planning commission after a hearing, upon finding:

          (1) The addition to, enlargement of, or moving of the building will be in harmony with the
          purposes of and shall be in keeping with the intent of this title.

          (2) The proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the lands located in
          the vicinity of the nonconforming use or structure. [Code 1997 § 12-150-015.]

Riverton Code sets forth the rules for which a non-conforming use may continue to exist, make
repairs to improvements which were previously approved, and even to make additions or
enlargements on their site under certain conditions.

The planning commission must approve changes to the site and structures, and may do so if the
Commission determines the proposed changes meet these two requirements:
       1.       The proposed change would keep the site in harmony with the purposes and
                intent of Title 18, and
       2.       The proposed change does NOT impose any unreasonable burden on the
                neighbors.



Report by TJP
Recommendations

After reviewing the application and proposed site plan, staff concludes that since the proposed
changes are designed to increase the capacity of the facility, it is then unlikely the proposal will
increase the amount of traffic coming to the facility. However, it appears the proposal would
decrease the impact on the neighbors by decreasing both the noise and visual impacts. Seeing
no additional impacts, improved conditions for the animals, and a decrease in neighborhood
impacts, staff is recommending approval of this application with the conditions in the example
motion.



Attachments
  The following items are attached:

            1.   Public Notice #1 including Area Map.
            2.   Public Notice #2 including Area Map and site plan.
            3.   Application.
            4.   Site Plan by the applicant.
            5.   Street View.
            6.   Aerial View.




Report by TJP
                                                      NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, February 22, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Hall located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Stone Ridge Vet Clinic is requesting approval of a conditional use permit plan to expand their dog
run, located at 1381 W. Stone Ridge Lane, Riverton, Utah.
The Planning Commission will evaluate the application and take public comments before making a
decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property records indicate you own property
within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton
City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.




                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
                                                      NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                                              CLARIFICATION

                                               You recently received a notice that the Riverton City Planning
                                               Commission will hold a public hearing on Thursday, February 22,
                                               2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton City Hall located at
                                               12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take public comment on the following
                                               application:
Stone Ridge Vet Clinic is requesting approval of a conditional use permit plan to expand their dog
run, located at 1381 W. Stone Ridge Lane, Riverton, Utah.
To clarify, the application is to construct a cover over the outdoor dog run and parking area inside
the existing fenced area, not to add additional indoor capacity to the clinic.




                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                   12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
                                                                     HOME DESIGNS
                                                                 ©
    226-038    226-065                  226-061




              226-070




                                 226-050
                                                  HOME DESIGNS


                         HOME DESIGNS


©
                                                            HOME DESIGNS
                                           SCALE 1:20




                                                        ©
226-041   226-038    226-065     226-061




                    226-070




                               226-050
©




    HOME DESIGNS
©




    HOME DESIGNS
©




    HOME DESIGNS
©




    HOME DESIGNS
©




    HOME DESIGNS
Existing Board and Batten to be matched.
Close up of Existing Board and Batten
