                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            May 22, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-2009, “Charlene & Francis”, a Conditional Use application for a
                 Home Occupation selling plants, pots and other similar nursery products at a
                 home located at 4148 Park Hollow Lane. Applicant – Teri Hunter


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item. It was continued to this
meeting from the April 10, 2025 meeting.


In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2009, “Charlene & Francis”, at 4148
Park Hollow Lane with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. No business activity may take place outside the home before 7 am or after 7 pm.
    6. Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for business activities.
    7. Applicant may use screened back yard space for storage and sales.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Charlene & Francis,” at
4148 Park Hollow Lane. The property is .38-acre and is zoned R-3, as are surrounding
properties. The house is a rambler with an attached 2-car garage. The applicant desires to use
space in her garage and back yard to sell plants, pots, trellises, and assorted nursery products.
She is affiliated with a rose society and can buy such items in bulk at a discount and provide
them to other members. Ms. Hunter describes her sales as seasonal, occasional, and irregular.
Ms. Hunter would notify her friends online of the items she has available and take their orders.
Customers would come to her home to pick up the items. Most days there would not be any
customers at the home, but on other days there may be up to 8, the limit for a home occupation
 Report by: LH
not involving child group activities. Customers will pick up their purchases one-at-a-time and will
park in the driveway.
This application comes before the Planning Commission because the applicant proposes to use
space in her garage and back yard for business purposes. A resident is allowed to have four yard
sales per year, and Ms. Hunter wants to be sure that she is complying with city requirements in
case her sales days are more than four. A neighbor reported her to code enforcement so she
wants to be sure she is in compliance with the code. The Home Occupation Code states that a
proposal to use garage or outdoor space for business use requires a conditional use permit and
approval of the Planning Commission. Any business use in a back yard also requires screening.
Ms. Hunter’s back yard is screened with a vinyl fence.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
that 50% of the garage space may be used for the business as well as screened area in the back
yard.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. Two comments in support of Ms. Hunter’s proposed activities had been received at the time
of this report.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

 Report by: LH
If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an exception
         through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home
         occupations.




18.190.060 Fixed standards.
             (6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the
             home occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and
             use off-street parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or
             business-related visitor vehicles.

 Report by: LH
              (10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any
              unscreened or unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not
              limited to, home occupation events or activities; and storage or display of supplies,
              inventory or equipment when such use is in conjunction with the sales, service or
              production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the home occupation
              must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.




Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Application
         2.     Public Notice including Area Map
         3.     Site Plan
         4.     Parking Plan
         5.     Street View




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, April 10, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Road to take
                                               public comment on the following application:
Teri Hunter is seeking approval for a home-based business to be based at 4148 W. Park Hollow
Lane. She desires to resell nursery items and plant overstock.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
