                                  MEMORANDUM
To:                 Planning Commission
From:               Planning Department
Date:               December 11, 2025
Subject:            PLZ-25-2048 “Vivian’s Kitchen”, a Conditional Use - Home Occupation
                    application for a home-based catering service to be located at 11752 South
                    1300 West. Applicant- Vivian Burr



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2048 “Vivian’s Kitchen”, at 11752 South
1300 West with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. Applicant may use up to 25% of the main floor for the business.
    6. No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation before 7 am or after 7 pm.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Vivian’s Kitchen,” located
at 11752 South 1300 West in the north-east section of the city. The property is .41-acre and is
zoned RR-22 (minimum ½-acre lot). The adjoining properties are zoned similarly. The lot has
approximately 100 feet of frontage on 1300 West (Temple Drive). The house has one level with a
2-car attached carport and a partial basement. The property has a drive approach on the south
side of the house and an extra-wide driveway that can accommodate several parked vehicles.

The applicant, Ms. Vivian Burr, is applying for a conditional use – home occupation permit that will
allow her to use her kitchen to prepare and sell food items at designated event venues. The
customers will order online and she will either deliver the order or schedule a pick-up time from her
home. She does not anticipate more than two customers per day and they would be scheduled
one-at-a-time. There will not be any additional deliveries to the home. She has no additional
 Report by: Staff
employees. Business use would be confined to the kitchen and front entry.

This application comes before the Planning Commission because Riverton City Code requires all
food or drink sales from home kitchens to be approved by the Planning Commission through the
conditional use process.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                    Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                         Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple              Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                         sees these.
                                                                         Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                    Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                             sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                    impact.
                                                                         PC.
                                                                         Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use     Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                         Neighbors.
                                                                         Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited          Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                         ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: Staff
18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.


(8) Food or Beverage Preparation. Any home occupation involving or proposing to involve food or
drink preparation, storage or catering.


18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations
must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are
unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may
pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

(4) Conducted in a Home. When business activities are being conducted on the property that is to
be licensed, the home occupation shall be conducted within the principal home or enclosed areas.

(5) Maximum Floor Space. With the exception of short term rentals, no more than 25 percent of
the total main floor area and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit shall be used for home
occupation. As an alternative to use of main and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit, up to 50
percent of the basement of a home unit may be utilized for home occupation.

(7) Display of Products. The home occupation may include the sale of tangible goods. Direct sales
from display apparatus are permitted only if the goods or products are not visible from the
exterior of any approved structure being used for the home occupation.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments have been received at this time.

Attachments
 The following items are attached:

            1.      Application
            2.      Site Plan
            3.      Public Notice including Area Map
            4.      Aerial View
            5.      Street View




 Report by: Staff
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, December 11, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd.
                                               to take public comment on the following application:
                                   Vivian Burr is requesting a conditional use permit for a home-
based catering service, “Vivian’s Kitchen,” to be located at 11752 South 1300 West. Work will be
conducted in her home kitchen. She anticipates orders will be fulfilled by delivery to event venues.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
