                      RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               MEETING MINUTES
                                 JUNE 26, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton, Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Monique Beck                                     Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                      Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Crystal Keele                                    Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Evan Matheson                                    Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Troy Rushton

1.            CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

In the absence of Chair Darren Park, Commissioner Monique Beck called the Planning
Commission Meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. Ryan Almond led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “SARAI GONZALEZ CUHO,” PLZ-25-2021, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A HOME BEAUTY SALON TO BE
              LOCATED AT 4244 WEST FREMONT PARK COURT. APPLICANT –
              SARAI GONZALEZ.

Planner Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report and explained that the application is
for a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) for property located at 4244 West Fremont Park
Court. The applicant is Sarai Gonzalez. The property is in the southwestern part of the
City, and the zoning is RM-14. The neighboring properties in this development are single-
family and multi-family residences with similar zoning. The subject property is the furthest
down the court with three townhomes linked together. It is a two-story residence with an
attached two-car garage. Ms. Gonzalez would like to have a hair salon in her garage.
This is a straightforward application, as the applicant would work by appointment only
with one client at a time. There will not be any other employees, and the proposal is to
operate between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Off-street parking will be provided to clients
in the driveway of the unit or the nearby visitor parking area. She expects to have two to
three clients per day.

The plan for the garage was shared. It includes a styling chair, a cabinet, and a mirror.
There is a restroom that clients can use that is located inside the home. The other 50%
of the garage will be dedicated to personal use. Ms. Halversen reported that the code
allows Home Occupations to be in a detached building. This application is straightforward
and within the Staff approval range for a Home Occupation, but because it is the garage
being proposed for the use, it needs to come to the Planning Commission for
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              2
June 26, 2025


consideration. Ms. Halversen noted that the neighborhood impact would be fairly low
based on the number of clients.

A mailer was sent out to nearby residents, and one comment was received. There was
a phone call from a neighbor who was concerned that the Homeowners Association
(“HOA”) does not allow Home Occupations. However, the applicant has spoken to the
HOA and was told the use was acceptable. An email from the Parkside HOA for a
different application was shared. Ms. Halversen sent that email to the HOA to ask if it
was applicable other home occupations besides a home salon, but did not hear back from
them. As a result, one of the proposed Conditions of Approval states: “HOA bylaws do
not prohibit Home Occupations in this community.” She noted that if the HOA bylaws
prohibit Home Occupations, then that will take precedence.

Commissioner Troy Rushton stated that it is his understanding that the Planning
Commission deals with the application itself. Any issues between the parties are left to
those parties. He has never seen language in a motion like Condition of Approval #9.
City Attorney, Ryan Carter, explained that, as a general rule, cities do not enforce the
regulations of HOAs.

Commissioner Rushton asked if there is a prohibition on multiple home-based businesses
at one location. He thought there might be another business located there. Ms.
Halversen explained that there is no Code prohibition, but the request must come to the
Commission.

Commissioner Beck asked the applicant to address the Planning Commission. Ms.
Gonzalez explained that she is a licensed cosmetologist in Utah and wants to open a
salon in her garage. She will hire a general contractor to make sure everything is up to
code and is set up correctly. The plan is to use slightly less than 50% of the garage for
this purpose. Commissioner Rushton asked if there is also an alteration business run out
of the home. This was denied. Commissioner Evan Matheson understands that running
water will be needed for a salon use, but garages do not typically have that. He wanted
to know how water will be handled. Ms. Gonzalez reported that she will be hiring a
plumber for that work.

Commissioner Beck opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
2021, "Sarai Gonzalez CUHO" at 4244 West Fremont Park Court with the following
conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and
             all applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the
             City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
             Fire Codes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
June 26, 2025



       2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business License.

       3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
              agency approvals.

       4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance, and with this approval.

       5.     No business activity may take place before 7:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.

       6.     Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for
              business activities.

       7.     Customers must be provided with off-street parking.

       8.     A maximum of 8 customers per day are allowed.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton.        Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Cannon – Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele –
Yes, Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

       B.     “13331 TRESTLE LANE CU-PRIVATE LANE,” PLZ-25-2020, AN
              APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A PRIVATE
              LANE TO SERVE A TWO-LOT SUBDIVISION AT 13331 TRESTLE LANE.
              APPLICANT – RYAN ALMOND OF JENSEN REAL ESTATE, LLC.

City Planner Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and explained that the application
is a CUP for a private lane to serve a two-lot subdivision at 13331 Trestle Lane. The
applicant is Ryan Almond of Jensen Real Estate, LLC. Mr. Prestwich shared an aerial
image and pointed out the current property boundaries. He reminded Commissioners
that last fall the City improved Trestle Lane with sidewalk, curb, and gutter. While in the
process of working with property owners to make sure there was right-of-way and
easements, there was a discussion with the property owners about what was shown on
the Title and County Records. It is the understanding of Staff that the situation has since
been worked out, but the County is lagging a little bit in updating their maps. He noted
that the County Recorder website currently states that their software is being upgraded
to improve the online maps.

The proposal is to create a single lot in the back, keep the existing home on the south, let
it access Trestle Lane through the existing driveway, and then have a new private lane
access Lot 1. It is a private lane because of the depth. Mr. Prestwich added that the
portion that would be kept on Lot 1 is not wide enough to qualify for a full lot itself. That
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               4
June 26, 2025


is the reason this is coming before the Planning Commission as a private lane. The
documents show a 20-foot private lane. There might need to be a fire turnaround, but
that would be worked out with the Fire Department. He noted that there is a Condition of
Approval related to that.

Mr. Prestwich reported that a comment was received earlier in the day, and it was
included in the meeting materials packet. The comment expressed support for
subdividing if this remains in the RR-22 Zone and the character of the neighborhood is
maintained. Mr. Prestwich noted that when a decision is made about a private lane, the
Commission must consider whether it qualifies and whether it can be serviced by a public
street. There is nothing that suggests a road is contemplated in this area, so Staff
believes this would qualify for a private lane. The 20 feet proposed is the minimum width
that is required for one lot. The proposed Conditions of Approval were shared, and he
clarified that though there is a reference to “up to two lots accessing the private lane,”
there is only one proposed, so that language can be changed. The applicant, Ryan
Almond, introduced himself to the Planning Commission and clarified that the private lane
is intended to access Lot 1. There were no further questions.

Commissioner Beck opened the public hearing.

Charlie Newman believed the Condition of Approval language should be changed so that
it only mentions one lot. He expressed concerns about the current wording that is
proposed.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

There was discussion about the Condition of Approval language. It was determined that
Condition of Approval #2 will be changed to mention one lot rather than “up to two lots.”

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
2020, "13331 Trestle Private Lane" to be located at 13331 South Trestle Lane with
the following conditions:

      1.     Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on
             private lanes.

      2.     Approval is for a private lane with one lot accessing the private lane.

      3.     Private lane shall be at least 20 feet wide paved surface.

      4.     Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to
             the requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 5
June 26, 2025


       5.     The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to
              the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City
              Standards and Specifications.

       6.     Private lane shall be named and signed according to Riverton City
              standards.

       7.     The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance,
              shall conform to Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but
              not limited to width, number of driveways, and separation distance
              between driveways.

       8.     The private lane shall be maintained by the homeowners. No City
              maintenance will be performed on the private lane.

       9.     Written CC&Rs or an agreement for shared access and maintenance
              of the private lane must be submitted with the subdivision plat.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton.        Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Cannon – Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele –
Yes, Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

       C.     “MEIDELL CU-PRIVATE LANE,” PLZ-25-2023, AN APPLICATION FOR
              A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT TO MODIFY THE CONFIGURATION
              AND CONDITIONS OF TWO PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PRIVATE
              LANES BY ADJUSTING WHICH LOTS ACCESS EACH LANE. IT WILL
              NOT RESULT IN ADDITIONAL LOTS BEING CREATED. THE SUBJECT
              PROPERTIES ARE LOCATED NEAR 3525 WEST 13400 SOUTH, AND
              ACCESS 3525 WEST PRIVATE LANE AND TREE HOUSE PRIVATE
              LANE. APPLICANT – JOSH MEIDELL.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and explained that the application is for a CUP
to modify the configuration and conditions of two previously approved private lanes. He
shared the application and public hearing notice. There are also four ownership affidavits,
which is what make this application a little bit different. Two parallel private lanes are
coming off of 13400 South including 3525 West and Tree House Lane. Mr. Prestwich
reported that Tree House Lane came in with the Crossman Subdivision and was approved
for up to three lots. 3525 West is an existing private lane, and two lots currently use that
private lane.

Last year, Josh Meidell came to the Planning Commission and stated that he had an acre
that he wanted to split off and then use the lane for access. The Planning Commission
approved this and required that the lane be widened out to 25 feet, because that is what
City Code requires if there are more than two lots. Work was done with the owners of the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
June 26, 2025


lane, but there were some challenges. The subdivision approval was received for the
one extra lot to access the lane, but the work eventually stalled. Mr. Meidell approached
Staff about rebalancing, with some lots using 3525 West and some lots using Tree House
Lane.

If the Planning Commission approves the application, Mr. Meidell would need to approach
the Commission to amend the Subdivision Plat so the lane is no longer required to be 25
feet of pavement. There would also need to be some agreements signed so that all future
users were aware of the expectations. Mr. Prestwich reported that there are additional
presentation slides and information if there are outstanding Commissioner questions.

Commissioner Rushton asked if this item is before the Planning Commission because the
applicant was unable to widen the lane enough to provide access to the total number of
lots. Mr. Prestwich reported that there is approximately 18 feet of asphalt there, but an
expansion to 25 feet would have been needed to allow for three users of the private lane.
The right-of-way is approximately 30 feet, but because of where the lane is positioned
with some of the utilities, the applicant did not feel it made the most sense to widen the
lane to 25 feet.

Commissioner Matheson asked for some clarification about fire access. He wanted to
know if the fire access will remain the same if the Planning Commission approves the
proposal. This was confirmed. Mr. Prestwich explained that when there is 20 feet of
asphalt on 3525 West, it is possible to clear a Building Permit and occupancy on Riverton
Acres Lot 1. Right now, it would not be possible to approve that, even though there is still
circulation.

The applicant, Josh Meidell, introduced himself to the Commission. He explained that
the code states that the lane needs to be 20 feet when there are two lots, but three or
more requires the lane to be 25 feet. Tree House Lane is 25 feet. Commissioner Rushton
asked why it was not possible to widen the yellow lane shown in the presentation
materials. Mr. Meidell explained that there are utilities on each side. The lane has worked
well for the two homes, but widening it would cover some utilities that there is a preference
not to cover. Tree House Lane is already 25 feet, and 3525 West has been sufficient for
two homes. There is a connection, so fire trucks could do a U-turn in the event of an
emergency. Commissioner Matheson assumed all parties had agreed to this proposal.
This was confirmed. There have been conversations with the property owners, and there
are also signed affidavits.

Commissioner Beck opened the public hearing.

Mark Kraft is one of the owners of the properties. He has lived there for approximately
30 years, and in that time, the Police Department and Fire Department have been in the
area. As an example, his son had allergic reactions in the past. Before Tree House Lane
was put in, emergency vehicles were able to access his home. There has never been an
issue with the lane or emergency access. Now that there is Tree House Lane, there is
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                7
June 26, 2025


additional access available. Mr. Kraft reported that 3525 West is currently 18 feet wide.
There are utilities running down both sides of the lane. He explained that there are
concerns about additional maintenance and covering up the utilities that are already
there. When the Crossman Subdivision was put in Tree House Lane, there was a
stipulation written that occupants could not use 3525 West. Based on the proposal, there
will be two houses using 3525 West and three houses using Tree House Lane. He is
available to answer questions.

Commissioner Gary Cannon expressed support for private lanes in Riverton. There is a
positive relationship with the current neighbors as far as maintenance, but he encouraged
there to be some type of recorded document to handle the maintenance of that private
lane. If someone moves away, then it will be useful to have the expectations documented
so that they will carry over. It was confirmed that there will be an agreement between the
parties related to overall maintenance and snow removal. That will happen and will be
done legally.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton asked if there is a mechanism in the ordinances to allow for a
variance on a private lane width in a case like this. Mr. Prestwich explained that there is
no exception that the Planning Commission can grant for a private lane width, but a
variance request through the Board of Adjustment is an option. Once the Planning
Commission decides something qualifies for a private lane, there are set minimums. The
Commission can require more with justification, but it is not possible to require less.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
2023, "Meidell Private Lane," to be located at 3546 West 13400 South, with the
following conditions:

      1.     Previous conditional uses for private lane known as Crossman Private
             Lane (PLZ-22-2005) and Riverton Acres Private Lane (23-2033) are
             hereby amended.

      2.     Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on
             private lanes.

      3.     The private lane 3525 West shall have only two (2) users and shall be
             constructed with a minimum of 20 feet of pavement.

      4.     The private lane, “Tree House Lane,” shall have only three (3) users
             and shall be constructed with a minimum of 25-feet paved surface.

      5.     Private lanes shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to
             the requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
June 26, 2025



      6.     The private lanes shall include a turnaround designed and installed to
             the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.

      7.     Private lanes shall be named and signed according to Riverton City
             standards.

      8.     The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance,
             shall conform to Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but
             not limited to width, number of driveways, and separation distance
             between driveways.

      9.     The private lanes shall be maintained by the homeowners. No City
             maintenance will be performed on the private lanes.

      10.    A written agreement for shared access and maintenance of the private
             lanes must be submitted with the Subdivision Amendment.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Keele.          Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Cannon – Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele –
Yes, Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

      D.     “MYERS COVE,” PLZ-25-1003, THE PRELIMINARY PLAN FOR A
             RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION WITH FOUR (4) SINGLE-FAMILY
             RESIDENCES TO BE BUILT ON 1.08 ACRES LOCATED NEAR 3807
             WEST 11800 SOUTH. APPLICANT – THOM BELCHAK.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and explained that the application is for a
Residential Subdivision with four single-family residences. He explained that Myers Cove
is an application that the Planning Commission has seen previously for a rezone and
private lane. This is the last step in the approvals process before building can start. The
application and ownership affidavit were shared. Notices were sent out to property
owners within 300 feet. There were some inquiries received about the application, but no
formal comments. There are nine houses that touch on this lot, and all of them have been
interested in this area over the years, as multiple development applications and
possibilities have been talked about. Mr. Prestwich explained that there were some
questions and concerns about what this development would look like and whether it would
meet the zoning requirements.

The Zoning Map was shared. Mr. Prestwich reported that the underlying zoning is R-4,
but the crosshatch shown indicates there was an SD put on it during the City Council
approval. He explained that this means the property would be limited to four lots with one
unit per lot. The lots would be configured as close to 10,000 square feet as possible, and
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              9
June 26, 2025


the lots would need to comply with all of the other standards of the R-4 Zone, including
setbacks with the three exceptions listed. The idea was that setbacks between neighbors
would be the same, but the internal setbacks could be shrunk down to five feet. He
explained that those details will be enforced during the Building Permit process when the
Building Official reviews the plans.

Mr. Prestwich shared the subdivision plans and pointed out the four lots. Three of the
lots have the private lane and private lane turnaround shown. All of the lots exceed
10,000 square feet, as required, and the necessary dedication was obtained. The Site
Plan was reviewed. Mr. Prestwich mentioned the lane and the fire turnaround area and
reviewed the contemplated setbacks. It was noted that there is compatible zoning, which
means there is no fencing requirement. All of the existing lots are fenced with vinyl
fencing, so the conditions language for Condition of Approval #12 notes that existing
fencing may remain. He explained that additional fencing discussions can be handled
between neighbors.

The sample motion language was shared. If the Planning Commission approves this
application, the Final Site Plan application will come back to Staff. Mr. Prestwich
explained that final plans need to be approved by City Staff, and the final plat needs to
be recorded with Salt Lake County. There is nothing in the motion language that would
waive or alter the SD designation. Neither the Commission nor Staff can alter that, as it
was set by the City Council. He read Condition of Approval #12 and explained that an
application does not need to come back to the Commission if the neighbors want to
change the fencing.

The applicant, Thomas Belchak, introduced himself to the Commission and offered to
answer questions. Commissioner Rushton asked how the applicant felt about reaching
this point. Mr. Belchak believes the development process is on the right track. The idea
is to make something nice for Riverton. He reported that the lane is called Myers Sun
Cove. Commissioner Rushton acknowledged that it has been quite a process to reach
this point. Commissioner Cannon asked if the house would be demolished, which was
confirmed.

Commissioner Beck opened the public hearing. There were no comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
1003, "Myers Cove Subdivision," to be located at 3807 West 11800 South, with the
following conditions:

      1.     Subdivision lots and private lane layout shall follow the previous
             approvals for the SD Designations in Ordinance 24-11 and with the
             Conditions of Approval for the Private Lane, as approved by the
             Planning Commission on August 8, 2024.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                       10
June 26, 2025


      2.    Subdivision lots and private lane construction shall be consistent with
            the plans presented to the Planning Commission, except where
            otherwise noted in this approval.

      3.    Applicant must apply for Final Plan approval.

      4.    Final Plan and Plat to be reviewed and approved by City Staff.

      5.    Final Plat must be recorded with Salt Lake County.

      6.    Applicant must fix any outstanding Riverton City Staff redline
            comments on the plat and plans.

      7.    Storm drainage systems shall comply with the Riverton City
            Standards and Ordinances and with the recommendations of the
            Riverton City Engineering Division.

      8.    The applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm
            Water Management Plan according to Riverton City Standards and
            Ordinances.

      9.    A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
            construction grading on the site.

      10.   The site and structures shall comply with all applicable Riverton City
            Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
            Fire Codes.

      11.   The private lane and utilities in the private lane are to be owned and
            maintained by the property owners. No City maintenance will take
            place on infrastructure outside the public right-of-way or outside an
            established City easement.

      12.   Existing fencing may remain in place. Fencing shared with adjoining
            neighbors may be replaced, following Riverton City Code.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Cannon.         Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Cannon – Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele –
Yes, Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 11
June 26, 2025


       E.     “MYERS PARK PHASE 2,” PLZ-25-1002, THE PRELIMINARY PLAN OF
              THE SECOND PHASE OF A RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION WITH
              FIFTEEN (15) SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCES TO BE BUILT ON
              APPROXIMATELY 4.2 ACRES LOCATED AT 2400 WEST 11800
              SOUTH. APPLICANT – RANDY MOORE OF MOORE HOMES.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and explained that the application is for a
Preliminary Plan for Myers Park Phase 2. Though this is called Phase 2, it is a different
developer and has different underlying ownership than Phase 1. When Phase 1 came
in, it was clear that there would be a connection to this subdivision. As a result, the
Planning Commission, City Council, and Staff required certain items in Phase 1 to enable
the second phase of development. The owners of Phase 1 and the owners of Phase 2
worked out an agreement that allowed for shared access and some shared utilities. Mr.
Prestwich reported that in Phase 1, there are homes being built, and there are homes
that are occupied. Those new owners are becoming aware of the agreements and the
work that was done previously.

The application and ownership affidavit were shared, as well as the notice provided and
the zoning information. Mr. Prestwich reported that the underlying zoning is R-4 with an
SD designation. The northernmost two lots need to be a third-acre for compatibility, while
the rest can be quarter-acre lots. He noted that the lot sizes include the lane. A map of
the area was reviewed with the Planning Commission. There is a stub road that connects,
and there is one access point shared with Phase 1 that comes out to 11800 South. Earlier
in the process, there were discussions about whether it made sense to pull another
access, but the Planning Commission evaluated that and determined that one access
point was acceptable here. Between the lot count of Phase 1 and Phase 2, they are just
under the 30-unit threshold set by the Fire Department. When there are 30 or more units,
there has to be a second access provided. The Fire Department has looked at the plans
and is supportive of the proposal.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Lot 201 will access directly onto 11800 South, as there was
no way for it to be on a separate private lane due to the layout. It was better for the
developer to have it face out. The water lines that service this neighborhood were
accounted for and will tie into the second phase. Additional maps of the area were shared
with the Commission. Mr. Prestwich reported that there will be a 6-foot masonry wall
along Midas Creek. There is an existing wall shown on the plans, but he is uncertain
whether that is all masonry. However, it needs to be all masonry per City Code due to
the incompatible zoning.

The Conditions of Approval were reviewed. Mr. Prestwich read the language for
Condition of Approval #10: “Developer shall coordinate with downstream users for the
continuation and relocation of existing irrigation turnouts and supply ditches.” Being right
against the canal, there is a turnout. It is shown on the plans that the turnout is being put
in, and there is a pipe that comes down along the frontage and connects to the easement
that was put in with the Phase 1 lots. Staff will make sure that continues to work, and the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  12
June 26, 2025


requirement is that there be coordination with the irrigation users as well. City Engineer,
Matt Cassel reported that water flows both directions out of there. He is available to
provide additional clarification.

Commissioner Cannon expressed appreciation for the work that has been done on this.
He shared an example scenario where a developer develops property to the standards,
the builder builds the home to the standards, but eventually, water comes up in the
basement as a result of the canal. He suggested that an acknowledgement be added so
there is awareness that building is taking place next to a canal, and there might be
groundwater in the future. He asked the City Attorney if the City can add that reminder.
Mr. Carter explained that there is nothing in the City Code that would require any added
regulations due to proximity to a canal. Legally speaking, the expectation is that the canal
will be able to retain the water within the bounds of the canal. If there is a high water
table at the Building Permit phase, then the Building Inspector can require that designs
be provided to show the water is adequately addressed. If something were discovered
during the course of excavation, it would be handled during the Building Permit phase of
the process.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the fencing requirement. Mr. Prestwich believes
there have been three exceptions granted by the Board of Adjustment on the canal. The
footings required on the masonry fences are going so deep and the weight is so much
that it can be a danger to the canal in some instances. There were a few examples where
that was found to be true, so the Board of Adjustment granted those exceptions. That
being said, most of the time, the 6-foot masonry fence is considered appropriate.
Commissioner Matheson noted that there is a couple in attendance at the Planning
Commission Meeting who lives to the east of this and own a small farm. He knows there
are some concerns about the impacts. It was noted that there is a Condition of Approval
about coordination with the downstream users.

The applicant, Randy Moore, introduced himself to the Commission. He explained that
the water comes in and splits in two different directions. Mr. Moore has met with the users
multiple times, and he believes there is a level of satisfaction. He feels what is being
provided will help them in terms of their water use, because right now, there are some
open ditches that are in fairly poor condition that will be completely piped. As for the
canal, it does show the canal clearly on the plat. He is not sure how else to address that.
Outside of this meeting, there could be something put into the agreements with the
homeowners that would make them aware of any concerns. Mr. Moore explained that
the only issue he has with this project is the fencing. He does not understand the need
for that in the back of the homes. While he is not opposed to the fencing if there is a
benefit, it is a very expensive component.

Mr. Moore does not know whether the Planning Commission has the ability to allow for a
6-foot vinyl fence rather than a 6-foot masonry fence, but if so, he would like to request
that along the canal. It is still possible to do a pre-cast along Midas Creek. Mr. Moore
reiterated that his question has to do with fencing and if it is possible to do pre-cast along
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 13
June 26, 2025


Midas Creek with vinyl fences along the canal. He also asked if there is a need for the
pre-cast against the existing home that is there. Mr. Moore offered to answer Commission
questions.

Commissioner Rushton explained that the Planning Commission is unable to change the
fencing requirements that apply to this application. He shared some history about the
rationale for the fencing type. Many years ago, there was a child who drowned, so the
fencing requirements were put in place by the City Council at the time. There are some
areas where exceptions have been made, so that would be something to work through
with Staff. He understands that the fencing requirement here is a major cost for the
developer.

Commissioner Beck opened the public hearing.

Brad Lifferth explained that he is a resident in the Myers Park Phase 1 area. His family
was the first that purchased and built in that subdivision and neighborhood. Seeing the
plans in person, he has some concerns about what is contemplated. In the Myers Park
Phase 1 development, some were not interested because of the size of the lots and the
easements. He pointed out that the easements have restricted the square footage that
can be built on. One of his questions is about the price point of the homes that will be
going in, because if they are intended to be $1.2 million or more, he would suggest that
the lot sizes be revisited.

Mr. Lifferth had questions about the entrance and expressed concerns about the creation
of blind spots. As more homes are built, it seems like that will become a congested point,
especially if there is street parking taking place. He asked if there is any flexibility with
the entrance of the subdivision. There are concerns that it will become too congested in
that area. Mr. Lifferth is also concerned about the overall construction period and the
cleanup process. As for fencing, he believes there is value in having something that is
sturdier for safety.

Ryan Almond believed the drowning mentioned earlier occurred in 2011, and it was in a
park. He wanted to understand why homeowners are required to have this kind of fence
as a result of that situation. Mr. Almond also had questions about when the fences are
required.

Mr. Carter explained that there are often walking trails along the sides of canals, and there
is no liability exposure to a canal company in the event that someone comes off a trail,
winds up in the canal, and drowns. The situation is trickier when there is a fence, and the
fence is something that people rely on as a safety barrier between the property and the
adjacent canal. That means people might let their children run free in the backyard areas.

When it comes to vinyl fences, it is easy to pop out the rails that are inside the panels to
get through, or there may be minor, unnoticed fractures. This creates a false sense of
safety that people rely on when they allow their children to play in proximity to them in a
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   14
June 26, 2025


backyard. The City Council is focused on protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. All subdivisions have some sort of fencing requirement, which is standard.
However, if fences are built to a flimsy standard in canal areas, it is a matter of time before
there are drownings or other issues. In the case of Donaven Lopez, the child drowned
after passing through a vinyl fence slat that was open. It was between one of the parks
and the canal. A policy decision was made that if there is fencing put up adjacent to a
canal, it needs to be built to a certain standard so it will not deteriorate or create a false
sense of safety.

Ken Higgins has met with Mr. Moore, and several of the drawings were reviewed. He
noticed that during the Staff presentation, the materials did not show the weir with two
pipes. It showed that it will go south and east, but it also needs to split and go north and
east. There was discussion had about the presentation materials. With the new box
going in, he asked that there be two controls on it. He would also ask that the two pipes
be at the same elevation. Mr. Higgins suggested that the two pipes be controlled from
the new box.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton asked whether there should be a discussion between the
developer and the canal company about what the valves and pipes look like or if each
individual user should participate in that discussion. Commissioner Cannon reported that
the minute the water leaves the canal, it is the responsibility of all the users of that ditch.
The canal is only responsible for liability, maintenance, and the safety of water going from
the Jordan River to where it ends. When it leaves the canal, it is no longer the
responsibility of the canal company. Commissioner Rushton asked for a Staff comment
about how the water gets from the canal, across what is developed, and to the user. Mr.
Cassel explained that there is a determination that the water supply continues through a
development. Technical items, such as the type of valve or the size of the pipe is not
determined. The City is essentially looking at it to ensure the downstream user can still
access water.

Mr. Moore asked to respond to some of the comments made during the public hearing.
There was a meeting with Mr. Higgins, and he worked to accommodate his concerns.
Initially, there was going to be one pipe from the canal up, and then it would split. Mr.
Higgins was concerned that he would need to open it at the canal, drive around to the
private road, and then open it on the other side. He agreed that two pipes would be run
instead. There have been accommodations made to be considerate of those impacted.
As far as the other comments, this project has gone on for a number of years. The road
layout was something set in motion many years ago. The first street coming in was
widened until the split. Phase 1 and Phase 2 are virtually mirrors of one another, where
both split and go into cul-de-sacs. There is a similar size between the two phases and a
similar layout overall. There was work with the developer in Phase 1 to connect and stub
some of the utilities in the area.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              15
June 26, 2025


Commissioner Rushton asked whether Mr. Moore is responsible for Phase 1, which was
denied. Mr. Moore reported that Phase 1 was handled by different developers, and those
developers sold the lots. Moore Homes is developing Phase 2, and at this point, it is
anticipated that they will also be building the homes. Work will be done to keep the
construction areas clean and maintained. Commissioner Rushton asked about rerouting
the street configurations to direct access onto 11800 South. Mr. Moore clarified that this
was something that was looked at previously, but it left a number of remnant pieces.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
1002, "Myers Park Phase 2 Subdivision," to be located at 2400 West 11800 South,
with the following conditions:

      1.     Subdivision lots and private lane layout shall follow the previous
             approvals for the SD Designations in Ordinance 24-12 and with the
             Conditions of Approval for the Private Lane, as approved by the
             Planning Commission on October 10, 2024, as PLZ-24-2030.

      2.     Subdivision lots and private lane construction shall be consistent with
             the plans presented to the Planning Commission except where
             otherwise noted in this approval.

      3.     Applicant must apply for Final Plan approval.

      4.     Final Plan and Plat to be reviewed and approved by City Staff.

      5.     Final Plat must be recorded with Salt Lake County.

      6.     Applicant must fix any outstanding Riverton City Staff redline
             comments on the plat and plans.

      7.     Storm drainage systems shall comply with the Riverton City
             Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations of the
             Riverton City Engineering Division.

      8.     The applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm
             Water Management Plan according to Riverton City standards and
             Ordinances.

      9.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
             construction grading on the site.

      10.    Developer shall coordinate with downstream users for the
             continuation and relocation of existing irrigation turnouts and supply
             ditches.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                            16
June 26, 2025


      11.    The site and structures shall comply with all applicable Riverton City
             Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
             Fire Codes.

      12.    The private lane and utilities in the private lane are to be owned and
             maintained by the property owners. No City maintenance will take
             place on infrastructure outside the public right of way or outside an
             established City easement.

      13.    A 6-foot masonry fence is required along the canal and along Midas
             Creek.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton.        Vote on Motion:
Commissioner Cannon – Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele –
Yes, Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion
passed unanimously.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.


5.    MINUTES

      A.     MAY 22, 2025.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Minutes
from the Planning Commission Meeting held on May 22, 2025. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Matheson. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cannon –
Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele – Yes, Commissioner
Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

After the vote was conducted, it was clarified that the May 22, 2025, Meeting Minutes
were not included in the Meeting Materials Packet. Two sets of the same Meeting Minutes
were included by mistake. As a result, a vote would be taken to unapprove the May 22,
2025, Meeting Minutes. That set of Meeting Minutes will be voted on at a future meeting.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission UNAPPROVE the
Minutes from the Planning Commission Meeting held on May 22, 2025. The motion
was seconded by Commissioner Matheson. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Cannon – Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele – Yes,
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                              17
June 26, 2025


Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion passed
unanimously.

      B.    JUNE 12, 2025.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Minutes
from the Planning Commission Meeting held on June 12, 2025. The motion was
seconded by Commissioner Keele. Vote on Motion: Commissioner Cannon – Yes,
Commissioner Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele – Yes, Commissioner Matheson –
Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:04 p.m.
