                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            December 11, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-2046, “Healing Hearts and Minds”, a Conditional Use application
                 for a Home Occupation to provide therapy services at a home located at
                 12025 South Doves Landing Drive. Applicant – Jill Blanchard



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2046, “Healing Hearts and Minds”, at
12025 South Doves Landing Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. Applicant may offer evening appointments with no business activity after 9 pm.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Healing Hearts and
Minds,” to be conducted at 12025 S. Doves Landing Drive, which is in the north-central part of
the city. The property is .24-acre and is zoned R-4, as are surrounding properties. The house is
one-story with a basement and there is an attached 2-car garage with an extra-wide driveway for
additional parking. The applicant, Ms. Jill Blanchard, desires to use an office inside the home for
hypnotherapy sessions.


Ms. Blanchard recently graduated from the Rapid Transformational Therapy Training School and
is a certified hypnotherapist. She states that no deliveries, business vehicles, storage, or
employees will be coming to the home. She intends to schedule customers one-at-a-time, her
plan is to have at most three customers per day. Customers will park on the driveway. As she is
 Report by: LH
just getting her business established, she would like the flexibility of being able to offer evening
therapy sessions one or two evenings per week. She states that all clients would be gone by 9
pm. The reason that this application is being reviewed by the Planning Commission is that Ms.
Blanchard is asking for an extension of her business hours. This change requires Planning
Commission approval.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of this home occupation application with the attached conditions.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
 Report by: LH
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.

 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Application
          2.     Public Notice including Area Map
          3.     Site Plan
          4.     Parking Plan
          5.     Street View




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, December 11, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd.
                                               to take public comment on the following application:
Jill Blanchard is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Healing Hearts and Minds,” to
provide in-home hypnotherapy at a home located at 12025 S. Doves Landing Drive.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
