                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            April 13, 2023
Subject:         PLZ-23-2016 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “HamHam Specialty
                 Grooming,” at 12317 S. Juniper Haven Drive. Applicant- Chelsey
                 Haddenham


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2016 “HamHam Specialty Grooming,”
located at 12317 S. Juniper Haven Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The business may have one full time equivalent employee according to the rules of
       18.190.060 (4).
    6. The work vehicle (mobile grooming trailer) must be parked off-street and not display
       advertising.
    7. Hours of operation must be kept between 9 am and 6 pm, Monday through Saturday.
    8. No more than three (3) dogs will be in the trailer at any given time.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “HamHam Specialty
Grooming” at 12317 S. Juniper Haven Drive. The property is just over a third-acre corner lot in
Heritage Farms Subdivision Ph. 5. The property is zoned R-4 as are surrounding properties.
The home is about 3,300-sf on the main level with a similar basement. The attached garage is
2-car with about 900-sf. In the rear yard there is a detached garage of about 350-sf. The
property has 2 drive approaches, one on Hayden Ridge Way to the north and one on Juniper
Haven Drive to the west. The homeowners also have additional parking space on the southwest
side of the house.
The applicant wishes to do dog grooming from a mobile trailer which would be parked on the
 Report by: LH
south side of the property on the extra parking pad. Her parents own the home, she lives there
and has their permission to utilize a mobile trailer for her grooming business. She does not
anticipate using any other space in the home or property and she will be the only employee.
This item comes to the Planning Commission because the applicant seeks approval to use an
accessory or outdoor space for business use. The Home Occupation Ordinance 18.190.080 (3)
makes it a conditional use for any home occupation that proposes to use any outdoor or
accessory space (detached or attached).
The applicant anticipates that five to six customers will bring their dogs to the business daily at
scheduled appointment times, four days a week. Her hours of operation will be from 9:00 am to
6:00 pm. Customers will utilize the large driveway for drop-off and pick-up of their pets. She
states that she will have a maximum of 3 small dogs or 2 large dogs at the same time, if they are
from the same family.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
specifying that the approval only allows one (1) employee, any vehicles will be parked off-street
and not display advertising, and the hours will be limited.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report one public comment had been emailed expressing concerns about
increased traffic and business use impacting residential property values.




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
         18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
         exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.



     18.190.060 Fixed standards.
     (14) Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not substantially,
     unreasonably and uncharacteristically interfere or disrupt the peace, quiet and domestic tranquility of
     the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not create or be associated with or produce odor,
     smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, noises or vibrations, excessive traffic or other nuisances,
     including interferences with radio and television reception or any other adverse effects within the
     neighborhood.



18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations
must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are
unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may
pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

(1) Hours. With the exception of short term rentals, no visitors in conjunction with the home
occupation (clients, patrons, employees, volunteers, students, pupils, etc.) shall be permitted
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.



 Report by: LH
(2) Traffic. Vehicular traffic from business-related visitors and customers shall not exceed that
which normally and reasonably occurs for a home in the neighborhood. With the exception of
short term rentals the home occupation shall be limited to two business-related visitors or
customers per hour, to a maximum of eight business-related visitors or customers per day.
Business-related deliveries or pickups scheduled by the business owner shall not exceed two per
day.

(3) Repealed by Ord. 20-05.

(4) Conducted in a Home. When business activities are being conducted on the property that is to
be licensed, the home occupation shall be conducted within the principal home or enclosed areas.

(5) Maximum Floor Space. With the exception of short term rentals, no more than 25 percent of
the total main floor area and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit shall be used for home
occupation. As an alternative to use of main and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit, up to 50
percent of the basement of a home unit may be utilized for home occupation.

(6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the home occupation,
including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and use off-street parking. Off-street
parking must also be provided for customers, clients or business-related visitor vehicles.

(7) Vehicle Advertisement. Vehicles or equipment may not be used for the primary purpose of
advertising the home occupation at the site of the home occupation.

(10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any unscreened or
unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not limited to, home occupation
events or activities; and storage or display of supplies, inventory or equipment when such use is in
conjunction with the sales, service or production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the
home occupation must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.

 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Home Occupation Code References.
          2.     Public Notice including Area Map.
          3.     Application.
          4.     Letter of Owner Permission.
          5.     Site Plan.
          6.     Street View.
          7.     MobileTrailer View.




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, April 13, 2023 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Chelsey Haddenham is seeking approval for a home-based business, “HamHam Specialty
Grooming,” a mobile dog grooming salon to be located at 12317 S. Juniper Haven Drive. She
intends to have up to six (6) clients per day.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
