                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            March 26, 2026
Subject:         “Moore Real Estate Rezone” Approximately 1.45 Acres Located at the NE
                 Corner of 13200 S & Redwood Road Currently Zoned RR-22, Rezone to RM-
                 6 and General Plan update to Medium-High Density Residential, Taylor
                 Moore, TMoore Real Estate- Applicant.


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of PLZ-25-4007, Moore Real Estate
Rezone, for 1.45 acres located at the northeast corner of 13200 S and Redwood Road,
amending the General Plan to Medium-High Density Residential and rezoning the property to
RM-6.

Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
I move the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of PLZ-25-4007, Moore Real Estate
Rezone located at the northeast corner of 13200 S and Redwood Road, thus keeping the
property zoned RR-22.

Background

This item is a public hearing for an application that originally was submitted as a request for a
development agreement, which had included General Plan and zoning changes as well as
preliminary site plans, architectural renderings, and other development conditions. Following a
hearing with the Planning Commission late last year, the applicant has made modifications to the
application and the requested action for the property. The application now proposes only a general
plan approval and rezone, with the zoning request at RM-6. The RM-6 zone allows a minimum
project size of at least .5 acres where the property “has frontage on a major street”, and Redwood
Road falls under that definition.

The property in question is approximately 1.45 acres located at the northeast corner of 13200 South
and Redwood Road. The properties are currently zoned RR-22. The site was occupied for many
years by a floral shop which was legal non-conforming, meaning the property was never zoned
commercial. The adjacent property to the east is a mix of Commercial Neighborhood and
Parks/Open Space, and is occupied by a private school. The property to the north is zoned RR-22.
The property across Redwood Road to the west is zoned Commercial Neighborhood, and is currently
vacant.
The applicant is proposing multi-family development on the property, with the proposed zoning at
RM-6. This is a reduction from the previous request at RM-14, and the RM-6 zone is also limited to
detached single-family units on lots of at least 5,000 square feet. While the applicant has submitted
a conceptual layout showing an 8 lot layout for the project, this application is for rezone of the
property only and no particular layout or configuration would be included in an approval. Should the
rezone be approved, the application would then pursue Site Plan approval, which would come before
the Planning Commission in a future public hearing. This includes potential access to/from the
property, although the traffic study indicates the level of density would be workable on the property.

The reduction in density from the previous request for this application, from 14 units/acre to 6
units/acre is significant, as concerns were expressed by the Commission in the prior hearings as to
the suitability of the project area for higher densities. Detached single family units within the RM-6
zone can provide a transition on Redwood Road into the residential areas to the east, but also a
buffer against the adjacent commercial development.



Public Notices and Response
Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
webpage. Staff received public comment related to the development, which is included below.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Submitted application.
       2.   Area Photos
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
       5.   Traffic Memo
       6.   RM-8
        Background

        The proposed development is located on the northeast corner of the 13200 South / Redwood
        Road intersection in Riverton, Utah. The project includes 15 townhome units. One access is being
        proposed onto 13200 South and no access onto Redwood Road. A site plan for the proposed
        development is included in Appendix A.

        Trip Generation

        Trip generation for the development was calculated using trip generation rates published in the
        Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation (12th Edition, 2025). Trip generation
        for the proposed project is included in Table 1.

        As shown in Table 1, it is anticipated that the proposed development will generate approximately
        100 trips on an average weekday, including 8 trips during the morning peak hour, and 8 trips
        during the evening peak hour.
                                                                   Table 1: Trip Generation
                                                                   Trip Generation
                                                        Riverton City - 13153 South Riverwood
                                                                                                                 Trip Generation           New Trips
                                                1                                 # of         Unit
                                  Land Use
                                                                                  Units        Type
                                                                                                            Total     % In    % Out   In      Out      Total
Weekday Daily
    Single-Family Attached Housing (215)                                            15           DU         100       50%     50%     50      50           100
AM Peak Hour
    Single-Family Attached Housing (215)                                            15           DU          8        25%     75%     2       6            8
PM Peak Hour
    Single-Family Attached Housing (215)                                            15           DU          8        57%     43%     5       3            8
1. Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,12th Edition,2025.
SOURCE: Hales Engineering, August 2025



        Access Spacing

        According to Riverton City Code, Ch. 18.215, states that “Access onto public rights-of-way shall
        not be closer than 100 feet from an intersection, nor another driveway on the same side of the
        street.” Measuring from curb to curb, the proposed access is approximately 175 feet from the
        13200 South / Redwood Road intersection and approximately 150 feet from the Our Journey
        Montessori School access to the east of the property. The proposed development is shown to be
        within the city access spacing standard.




                                              1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043                           p 801.766.4343                    2
                                                              www.halesengineering.com
Daily Volume Analysis

The townhome development is anticipated to have minimal impact on the existing roadway
volumes and the current operations on 13200 South. Given travel demand model data, 13200
South has an average daily traffic (ADT) of approximately 1,500. According to the Highway
Capacity Manual, 7th Edition (2022), a generalized daily service volume for a 2-lane street similar
to 13200 South operate at an acceptable level of service (D or better) is approximately 10,700
vehicles per day.

From the trip generation calculated, the development would only generate approximately 100
weekday daily trips. Since the proposed development would only contribute a 6% increase in
traffic to a roadway that is currently operating well under capacity, it is not anticipated that the
proposed project will have any significant impacts on traffic conditions on 13200 South.

Conclusions

The findings of this study are as follows:
   • The proposed development includes 15 townhomes. It is anticipated that the project will
       have one access onto 13200 South.
   • It is anticipated that the proposed project will generate approximately 100 trips on an
       average weekday, including 8 trips during the morning peak hour, and 8 trips during the
       evening peak hour.
   • The proposed access location for the development adheres to city code, exceeding the
       minimum 100 feet distancing from intersections and driveways in both directions.
   • The added trips from the development would have minimal impact on the traffic on 13200
       South, adding approximately 6% more vehicles to daily traffic volumes.

If you have any questions regarding this memorandum, please contact us at 801.766.4343.




                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343              3
                                       www.halesengineering.com
City of Riverton, UT

                § 18.50.010                                                                   § 18.50.050

                                                        CHAPTER 18.50
                                                    RM-8 RESIDENTIAL ZONE

                § 18.50.010. Purpose.
                To provide areas of medium residential density with the opportunity for varied housing
                styles and neighborhood character, with a maximum density of eight dwelling units per
                gross acre.
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-005; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.020. Permitted uses.
                (1) Condos or townhomes (attached or detached).
                (2) Residential planned developments.
                (3) Parks and open spaces (public).
                (4) Household pets (two maximum).
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-010; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.030. Conditional uses.
                (1) Nursing homes or convalescent care centers.
                (2) Public and quasi-public buildings and uses.
                (3) Group day care.
                (4) Golf course (public or private) as part of a planned development.
                (5) Medical clinics.
                (6) Independent senior citizen housing.
                (7) Other compatible uses, not elsewhere specified, approved by the city council after
                    recommendation by the planning commission.
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-015; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.040. Permitted accessory uses.
                (1) Accessory Buildings. Garage, shed, and any building on a foundation (maximum
                    one story or 15 feet).
                (2) Accessory Structures. Pools and jacuzzis, subject to this chapter.
                (3) Recreation Facilities. Basketball courts, tennis courts, and similar structures.
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-020; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.050. Area requirements.
                (1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less



Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
City of Riverton, UT

        § 18.50.050                                                                      § 18.50.080

               than three acres.
        (2) Percent Open Space. Each development in the RM-8 zone shall have a minimum of
             30 percent of the site reserved for common open space.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-025; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-18-03-1 § 1; Ord.
        3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 25-13 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.060. Private yard requirements.
        A minimum of 500 square feet of private yard space per unit shall be required in the
        RM-8 zone.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-030; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.070. Frontage requirements.
        No more than four units per 150 feet of frontage shall be allowed.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-035; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.080. Setback requirements.
        (1) Front Yard Setback. The minimum setback from the foundation of the residential
            building to the dedicated public right-of-way shall be no less than 30 feet, and 50
            feet from an arterial street. The minimum setback shall be 10 feet from the back of
            a sidewalk which abuts a private driveway, private road, and/or parking areas.
        (2) Side Yard Setback. All buildings shall have a setback of 20 feet between detached
            buildings. Where a side yard is located contiguous with a public street or a property
            line shared with an incompatible zone, the side yard setback shall not be less than
            30 feet.
        (3) Rear Yard Setback. All buildings shall have a rear setback of 30 feet that may
            include both private yard and common open space. Parking areas shall have a
            setback of 10 feet from the rear property line. Adjacent to a single-family residential
            zone, a minimum of seven feet depth of landscaping shall be installed along that
            property line.
        (4) Accessory Buildings and Uses.
               (a) There shall be a five-foot minimum setback from the side and rear property
                   lines to the closest portion of the building (including the eaves); provided, that
                   rain gutters and rain pipes are installed. If the building does not meet the
                   previous criteria the setback shall be a minimum of 10 feet from all property
                   lines. If the accessory building is located within 20 feet of a dwelling or main
                   building on an adjoining lot, it shall be constructed of fire-resistant materials
                   that provide a one-hour or greater fire rating.
               (b) Detached garages and accessory buildings shall be set at least 10 feet back of
                   the normal front setback and a minimum of 10 feet from the main structure. In
                   cases where accessory garages and/or buildings are placed in the side yard, the
                   standard side yard setbacks for main structures shall apply.


Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
City of Riverton, UT

                § 18.50.080                                                                    § 18.50.120

                       (c) Accessory buildings or uses shall not encroach upon any easement or right-of-
                           way.
                    (d) Accessory buildings shall be of quality design and workmanship to match the
                         integrity and materials of the existing home. If approved hard surface materials
                         are used for the main dwelling, similar and/or complementary materials shall
                         be used on the accessory structure. Exterior materials may not include metal,
                         particle board, plywood or other similar materials.
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-040; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.090. Square footage of dwelling units.
                A minimum of 1,100 square feet main level living area, exclusive of garage or basement
                area, shall be required for all single-story dwelling units, whether attached or detached.
                For two-story units, a minimum of 900 square feet main level living area, exclusive of
                garage or basement area, shall be required.
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-045; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.100. Building height.
                The maximum height for all buildings and structures in the RM-8 zone shall be no more
                than 35 feet or two and one-half stories. Accessory buildings shall be a maximum of 20
                feet in height.
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-050; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.110. Multi-unit development standards.
                (1) Dwelling units may be clustered in common wall construction. Such units may have
                    no more than two walls in common with other dwelling units, not including units
                    situated above other dwelling units. Such developments shall be limited to a
                    maximum of five attached units.
                (2) Exterior Materials. Brick, tile, stone, or fiber-cement siding is required on the front
                     exterior walls of all residential buildings and the street side(s) of a corner lot and
                     units with facades adjacent to a street. The minimum required amount of brick, tile,
                     stone, fiber-cement siding, or combination thereof (measured in square feet) is 20
                     percent of the facade on which it is required. Vinyl, aluminum, or other metal siding
                     products are not permitted.
                (Code 1997 § 12-240-055; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A);
                Ord. 18-30 § 1 (Exh. A))

                § 18.50.120. Parking and access.
                The following requirements shall be followed when planning parking for a multifamily
                or condominium projects:
                (1) Number and Width of Driveways. Two driveways shall be used for each 200 feet
                    of parcel frontage or fraction thereof. Each driveway shall have a minimum width
                    of 24 feet and a maximum width of 40 feet exclusive of turnout areas to allow


Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
City of Riverton, UT

        § 18.50.120                                                                   § 18.50.150

               access to a garage or side yard.
        (2) Restrictions on Corner Lots. On any corner lot, no driveway shall be closer than 30
            feet to the point of intersection as measured at the property line.
        (3) Restrictions of Driveways on Collector Streets. Any lot fronting on a collector street
            shall have the driveway designed so that automobiles will not back onto the street.
        (4) Minimum Number of Parking Spaces. Multiple-family developments shall have a
            minimum of two off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit, at least one of which
            shall be in an enclosed garage. Driveways on individual units may be counted as an
            off-street parking space only if there is a minimum driveway depth of 20 feet from
            back of sidewalk. In addition, guest parking shall be provided at a ratio of one-half
            stall per unit.
        (5) Internal Roadways. Internal roadways shall include a minimum of 28 feet measured
            face of curb to face of curb, with high-backed curbs required. Sidewalks shall be
            installed on both sides of the roadway, but may be installed in an easement if the
            roadway is privately maintained. All paved surfaces shall meet minimum standards
            of construction as specified in the Riverton City Standards and Specifications
            Manual.
        (6) Other Requirements. Parking in the RM-8 zone shall follow all other applicable
            parking regulations as listed in Chapter 18.145 RCC.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-060; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.130. Trash storage.
        No junk or trash shall be stored in an open area. All such materials must be screened
        from public streets and adjacent properties with a solid decorative masonry enclosure
        with solid vinyl or comparable solid gating, or must be stored within an enclosed
        building. Storage of commercial goods or materials is expressly prohibited.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-065; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.140. Vehicle storage.
        (1) RV Storage. Each multifamily or condominium development shall provide
            recreational vehicle storage areas for one recreational vehicle for every 10 units
            within the development. Storage areas shall be fully enclosed and screened with a
            solid decorative masonry enclosure, with solid vinyl or comparable solid grating.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-070; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.150. Standards for open space.
        Open space shall be maintained by the owner and shall meet the following minimum
        requirements:
        (1) Grading. All areas shall be properly graded so as to cause no drainage problems to
            adjacent homes or other uses.



Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
City of Riverton, UT

                § 18.50.150                                                                        § 18.50.150

                (2) Turf. All open space shall be sodded or seeded to provide a visually pleasing as well
                    as functional space for appropriate activities.
                (3) Native Vegetation. Where it is deemed appropriate by the city, native grasses and
                    plants may be used along equestrian trails, bicycle paths, etc. Steps will be taken by
                    developers to guard against such spaces becoming a fire hazard or haven for insects.
                (4) Trees. All areas shall have a minimum number of both deciduous and evergreen
                    trees to provide for shade and to provide visual relief and a source of rural
                    atmosphere. The following shall be required:
                       (a) A minimum of 20 trees per acre shall be planted and maintained.
                       (b) Trees shall be as follows:
                            (i)    Ten percent shall be three-inch caliper.
                            (ii) Thirty percent shall be two-inch caliper or, if evergreen, nine feet or
                                 larger.
                            (iii) Fifty percent shall be one-and-one-half-inch caliper or, if evergreen,
                                  seven feet or larger.
                            (iv) Ten percent shall be one-inch caliper or, if evergreen, five feet or larger.
                            (v) In no case will trees of less than one-inch caliper be accepted.
                       (c) Irrigation. All areas shall be watered by an installed irrigation system.
                (5) Open Space Guarantees. Within all areas where condominium ownership is
                    established in the RM-8 zone, adequate assurance in a form approved by the city
                    attorney shall be provided for permanent retention and maintenance of all open
                    space and areas of common ownership. A building permit shall not be issued until
                    all required guarantees have been reviewed by the planning commission and
                    approved by the city council. Such open space guarantees could include easements
                    to the city for perpetual use as open space.
                (6) Landscaping Guarantees. Whenever a residential dwelling is constructed,
                    landscaping in the form of lawn, trees, or other plantings or landscape features,
                    except for areas covered by walls, driveways, and other structures, shall be installed
                    before issuing a certificate of occupancy, unless weather forces the developer to
                    bond with the city for the landscaping for a maximum period of six months.
                       All landscaping shall be of sufficient quality, durability and survivability.
                       Landscaping and open spaces shall be watered by a pressurized irrigation system
                       installed to meet the watering needs of all flora.
                (7) Tot Lots. Tot lots, including jungle gyms and other play equipment, shall be
                    provided as part of the open space requirements at a ratio of one tot lot per 100 one-
                    bedroom apartments, or 50 two-bedroom apartments, with a minimum of one tot lot
                    per development. An exception to this requirement may be granted where the



Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
City of Riverton, UT

        § 18.50.150                                                                    § 18.50.180

            subject development is specifically set aside for senior citizens or elderly persons.
            Play equipment type and placement must be proposed and reviewed as part of the
            overall site plan.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-075; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A);
        Amended during 2011 recodification)

        § 18.50.160. Fencing.
        (1) Collector Street Fencing. All residential subdivisions that have properties adjacent
            to, or abutting onto, a collector or arterial residential street shall have decorative
            fencing, in compliance with Chapter 18.155 RCC.
        (2) Incompatible Land Uses. All properties adjacent to or abutting a single-family
            residential or commercial zone shall install fencing compliant with RCC
            § 18.155.080. Fencing for properties adjacent to other uses may also be required by
            the planning commission or city council.
        (3) Height Requirements. No wall or fence higher than six feet shall be erected or
            maintained in any private rear yard, nor shall any wall, fence, opaque hedge, or
            screening material be erected or maintained in any required front yard in excess of
            three feet in height, except that any fence erected within 10 feet of any driveway
            and exceeding two feet in height shall be of visually nonobstructive material and
            shall be used to provide a safe distance for pedestrian and street traffic.
        (4) Corner Lots. No wall, fence, opaque hedge, or screening material in excess of two
            feet shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street
            property lines and a line connecting them at point equal to the required setback
            lines.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-080; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A);
        amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 15-02 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.170. Swimming pools.
        Any private swimming pool not completely enclosed within a building having solid
        walls shall be set back at least five feet from all property lines, and any public swimming
        pool not completely enclosed within a building having solid walls shall be set back at
        least 10 feet from all property lines. Any swimming pool shall be completely surrounded
        by a nonaccessible wall or fence having a height of at least six feet in which there shall
        be no openings larger than 36 square inches except for gates which shall be equipped
        with self-closing and self-latching devices, with latches placed a minimum of five feet
        above finished grade of the fence.
        (Code 1997 § 12-240-085; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 3-22-06-1 § 1 (Exh. A))

        § 18.50.180. Individual dwelling lot standards.
        Where a development proposes dwelling units on separate lots, the following standards
        apply. This does not include condominium units where the building footprint is in
        separate ownership.



Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
City of Riverton, UT

                § 18.50.180                                                                      § 18.50.180

                (1) Lot Area. For single detached units, the minimum lot area shall be 5,000 square
                    feet. For multifamily units, the minimum lot area shall be 7,000 square feet.
                (2) Lot Width. For single detached units, the minimum lot width shall be 50 feet. For
                    multifamily units, the minimum lot width shall be 70 feet. Lot width shall be
                    measured at the front yard setback line.
                (3) Lot Depth. The minimum lot depth shall be 80 feet.
                (4) Front Yard.
                       Main Building: 15-foot minimum front yard setback measured to foundation.
                       Garage: 20-foot minimum setback measured to foundation.
                (5) Side Yards.
                       Main Building: Five feet minimum side yard setback measured to foundation.
                       Where adjacent to existing incompatible zoning or use, the setback shall be one foot
                       for every foot in building height, with a maximum setback of 25 feet.
                       On corner lots, the street side yard setback shall be 15 feet from the right-of-way.
                (6) Rear Yard.
                       Main Building: The minimum rear yard setback shall be 15 feet. Where adjacent to
                       existing incompatible zoning or use, the setback shall be one foot for every foot in
                       building height, with a maximum setback of 25 feet.
                (7) Minimum Living Area Square Footage. The minimum finished living area square
                    footage shall be 1,000 square feet for a single-story dwelling unit and 1,200 square
                    feet for a two-story or split level dwelling unit.
                (8) Maximum Building Height.
                       Main Building: 35 feet. No dwelling shall contain less than one story.
                (9) Accessory Buildings. Accessory buildings shall comply with the requirements of
                    Chapter 18.225 RCC, Accessory Structures.
                (10) Exterior Materials. Brick, tile, stone, or fiber-cement siding is required on the front
                     exterior walls of all residential buildings and the street side(s) of a corner lot. The
                     minimum required amount of brick, tile, stone, fiber-cement siding, or combination
                     thereof (measured in square feet) is 20 percent of the facade on which it is required.
                     Vinyl, aluminum, or other metal siding products are not permitted.
                (11) Open Space. Areas where individual dwelling lots are utilized shall not be included
                     in the open space requirements or calculations, with the exception of shared
                     driveway clusters, as described below. Projects over 10 acres shall include a
                     minimum of one acre of open space. A 10 percent reduction in lot size may be
                     allowed to compensate for this requirement, except where a stormwater
                     management area is utilized as open space. Said open space shall be privately



Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
City of Riverton, UT

        § 18.50.180                                                                  § 18.50.180

               owned and maintained unless otherwise approved by the city council prior to
               recordation of a plat and/or issuance of any building permits within the project.
        (12) Shared Driveway Clusters. Where two or more units are clustered on a common
             shared driveway, the units shall be considered multifamily structures and this
             section shall not apply, regardless of whether the units are detached. All other
             applicable standards and requirements of this chapter shall apply.
        (Ord. 18-30 § 1 (Exh. A))




Downloaded from https://ecode360.com/RI4763 on 2026-03-10
PC Minutes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               4
November 13, 2025


      8.     Customers will be instructed to either continue straight on Admiral
             Drive or turn right on Blue Admiral after drop-off and pick-up; no U-
             turns allowed.

      9.     Pick-up and drop-off times shall be staggered to avoid congestion.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      B.     'READER CONDITIONAL USE - SHORT-TERM RENTAL,' PLZ-25-2042,
             AN APPLICATION TO RENT THE PROPERTY AT 4851 MURDOCH
             PEAK CIRCLE AS A SHORT-TERM RENTAL. THIS ITEM WAS
             CONTINUED FROM A PREVIOUS MEETING. APPLICANT - GENE
             READER.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE Application PLZ-25-
2042, “'Reader Conditional Use - Short-Term Rental,” to the December 11, 2025,
Planning Commission meeting. Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

      C.     'MOORE REZONE AND GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT,' PLZ-25-4007,
             AN APPLICATION TO AMEND THE GENERAL PLAN AND REZONE
             APPROXIMATELY 1.45-ACRES LOCATED AT 13153, 13171, AND
             13191 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD. THE PROPERTY IS CURRENTLY
             DESIGNATED AS 'ESTATE DENSITY RESIDENTIAL' IN THE GENERAL
             PLAN, AND ZONED RR-22 (SINGLE FAMILY, RESIDENTIAL WITH 1/2-
             ARCE MINIMUM LOTS). THE APPLICANT IS REQUESTING THE
             GENERAL PLAN DESIGNATION BE CHANGED TO 'HIGH-DENSITY
             RESIDENTIAL' AND THE PROPERTY REZONED TO RM-14D WITH AN
             SD OVERLAY AND/OR DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO ALLOW UP
             TO 15 TOWNHOMES. APPLICANT - TAYLOR MOORE.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge, presented the Staff Report and
indicated that the subject property included several parcels along Redwood Road and
13200 South. The property was previously occupied by a floral shop, which was a legal
non-conforming use, but it was not zoned commercial. The building was removed when
the road was widened, and the property had remained vacant since that time.

The application was for a Development Agreement, including rezoning and preliminary
Site Plan approval. If approved, technical details of the project would be reviewed by
Staff and the Final Site Plan presented to the Planning Commission at a future public
hearing.

The proposed zoning was RM-14-D, which would allow for a maximum density of 14 units
per acre. This zone is typically restricted to the downtown area of Riverton and would not
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
November 13, 2025


normally be extended but the Development Agreement would allow it to be applied to the
subject property. The agreement would also exempt the 1.45-acre property from the two-
acre minimum parcel size required in the RM-14-D Zone. Setbacks would be compliant
with the zone.

Mr. Lethbridge reviewed the proposed architectural renderings, which would be
incorporated into the Development Agreement. All buildings must comply with the
proposed design. A total of 15 units would be allowed for a density of approximately 10
units per acre. All units would have two-car garages, but the five rear-loading units along
13200 South would not have full driveways.

The Applicant proposed a three-rail fence along the property, which would be a deviation
from zone fencing requirements. To address concerns about the fencing style, a
proposed Condition of Approval would require a “picket style” fence with vertical rails.
The Conditions of Approval were then reviewed.

Concerns were expressed to Staff about technical elements of the Site, including
proximity of the driveway to Redwood Road. It was reported that the proposed
configuration met City requirements, and a traffic memo was included in the application.
The driveway would be reviewed in detail during the Final Site Plan approval process, as
would fencing, stormwater management, etc. Any element not specified in the
Development Agreement would be required to conform to RM-14-D Zone requirements
and other Riverton City Standards and Ordinances.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, it was clarified that a solid
masonry fence would be required between the development and the commercial property
to the east.

Chair Pro Tem Cluff indicated that a public comment had been received regarding a
potential Site Plan overhang onto adjacent properties and highlighting an active irrigation
ditch. Mr. Lethbridge reported that Staff had not had time to research the matter as the
comment was received earlier that day. Any issues with property lines or surveys must
be addressed and existing irrigation ditches abandoned or relocated as necessary prior
to Site Plan approval.

In response to a question from Chair Cluff, City Engineer Matt Cassell reported that the
traffic study indicated that the 15 homes would generate 100 trips per day. Traffic studies
are based on industry standards for specific use types. A single-family home generates
nine trips per home. Mr. Lethbridge added that commercial trips depend heavily the
specific use.

Commissioner Matheson noted that the application appeared to be incomplete as it did
not appear to be completely filled out. Mr. Lethbridge clarified that the public document
was redacted to remove personally identifiable information like phone numbers and email
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
November 13, 2025


addresses. Mr. Carter indicated that the Development Agreement and associated
documents met all City requirements and were considered complete.

The Applicant, Tanner Webster stated that his team reviewed the October 2025 Planning
Commission meeting and incorporated as much of their feedback as possible, including
decreasing the proposed density and requiring that the first property owner live in the unit.

Chair Cluff asked the Applicant to address parking concerns as public street parking was
not available near the development, five of the proposed units would not have driveways,
and only minimal visitor parking was proposed. Mr. Webster indicated that the
development would have more parking than required by code. Chair Cluff stated that all
other townhomes in the City are up to code, but they have access to public street parking.
Mr. Webster could not provide the specific number of parking stalls but indicated that they
would not be able to sell the homes if they had insufficient parking. Mr. Lethbridge
clarified that City Code indicates that driveways can count as guest parking if a garage is
available, so the 10 units with driveways would count toward guest parking requirements.
It was within the Commission’s scope to determine if that was sufficient, but the proposal
met the minimum standard.

Commissioner Matheson referred to a public comment that indicated people often use
garages for storage and park in the driveway. Mr. Webster stated that garage use would
be controlled by the HOA, and residents would be encouraged to park in their garage. In
response to a follow-up question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Carter stated that
the development would include common areas, so an HOA would be required.

Chair Cluff asked if the Applicant had explored the possibility of a single-family
development on the parcel. Mr. Webster stated that they researched it extensively and
tried to consider feedback received from the City Council, Staff, and the public, and the
proposal represented their best effort.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing and noted that the Planning Commission could not
consider general public outcry in its decisions. However, the City Council could consider
public outcry as they are a political body, and the item would be heard by the City Council.
She then reviewed the commenting rules.

Dave Mobley stated that he lives on Jared Circle and was speaking on behalf of the
Riverton Heritage Group of citizens who live east of Redwood Road between 12800
South and Bangerter Highway. He then summarized a letter from the group.

“We are here tonight to state our firm opposition to the proposal by DRH Holdings and
any changes to the current Riverton City General Plan for our area. Our opposition is
based on two main points. (1) Our citizens were deeply engaged in developing our
current General Plan. We did this with full knowledge of the UDOT Redwood Road
expansion and the excess land it would create. In fact, many of us accepted lower
compensation from UDOT based on the understanding that our neighborhood’s 0.50-acre
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                7
November 13, 2025


zoning integrity would be maintained. Our vision has always been that this excess land
would be acquired by neighbors or combined to create new single-family, 0.50-acre lots,
consisted with the plan we all agreed on. (2) We reject the notion that our General Plan
must be changed to accommodate speculators. These groups purchase excess land
from UDOT with full knowledge of the current General Plan and its zoning. We believe
they are now trying to pressure the City into granting a zoning change for their profit at
the expense of the neighborhood’s integrity.

We ask that you give greater consideration to your citizens than those speculators.
Therefore, we propose that Riverton City place a moratorium on all applications for zoning
changes in this area. This would give us time to form a committee of citizens, City Council
members, and staff to develop a specific plan for this UDOT excess land. The RHG has
a 20-year history of successfully working with the City, and we are fully prepared to work
with you again to ensure that the land complies with the spirit of our General Plan and
beautifies the entrance to our City.”

Commissioner Cannon reported that Commissioner Keele needed to be excused due to
a family emergency. As a result, the Planning Commission no longer had a quorum.
However, out of respect for the citizens in attendance, the public comment period would
continue. Mr. Lethbridge stated that if the item was continued, it would be re-noticed to
affected property owners. A transcript would be provided to all Commissioners so those
not in attendance could be made fully aware of the public comments received during the
current meeting.

Commissioner Keele was excused at 8:00 p.m.

Craig Hiller gave his address as 1621 West 13200 South and asked how many public
comments had been received. Mr. Lethbridge stated that all comments received were
made part of the record and read by the Planning Commission, but he did not know the
specific number. Mr. Hiller asked what had changed between the current application and
the one that was rejected in October, as he did not see a difference and did not
understand why it was being considered. He objected to the application and believed the
RR-22 zoning and current land use should stay in place.

Travis Christiansen stated that the proposed rezoning should not be approved. According
to Riverton City Code, the combined parcels would not meet two of the qualifications.
The parcel size of 1.45 acres did not meet the minimum requirement of two acres. If
combined, they still would not conform to the requirement. Additionally, the lots are not
in the downtown area, and therefore, the zoning would not be applicable. Riverton City
Code § 18.57.50 designates three zones that do not have a minimum area requirement:
R-2, R-3, and R-4. RM-6 is a higher-density zone that could apply, and § 18.45.50
indicates the zone can be approved by the City Council on parcels of at least 0.50 acres
that have frontage on a major street and where the use is in compliance with the General
Plan. He believes that creating an exception and rezoning the parcels to RM-14-D should
be denied, as the request did not comply with City Code. The City and its Planning
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
November 13, 2025


Department developed the standards that formed and shaped the community that his
family is part of. Deviation from the standards would set a precedent that Riverton is
more interested in development than following its standards and General Plan. He also
believed approval would make denial of future noncompliant rezoning requests more
difficult and recommended that the Planning Commission consider denial of the request.

Blaine Withers stated that he lives near the subject property, and his family were original
landowners in Riverton who had been in the City for over 150 years. He cares deeply
about what kind of community he lives in, what kinds of neighbors he has, and the quality
of life. He requested that the request be rejected and the 0.50-acre zoning be left in
place. He believes a lot of people would like the land to raise animals or grow food, and
that opportunity is lost when a development like this is approved Residents had been
fighting rezoning for three years, as it is their home and they want it left as-is. He served
a mission in England, where centuries-old villages are still intact, and he believes this
area of Riverton should be preserved.

Dean Warkentin stated that he lives across the street and north of the subject property.
He moved to Riverton 27 years ago and raised his eight children here because it was
rural, had a sense of family and community, and did not feel like downtown. He believes
the City’s founding fathers intended for it to be open, with large lots to raise families and
have animals. He expressed concern about water usage, which he calculated to be
150,000 gallons per month for the proposed development. The City was struggling with
infrastructure problems, and continuing to add high-density homes would further diminish
resources. Citizens want the land to remain rural, and he believed the application should
be denied.

Mike Merritt gave his address as 1606 West Dapple Gray Circle, northeast of the subject
property. The proposal was very similar to proposed developments on Redwood Road
north of Riverton Ranch Road that were rejected at least twice by both the Planning
Commission and City Council. It would empty onto a single street and have very little
parking. He did not believe it was a good fit for the area or Riverton.

Commissioner Park returned to the meeting at 8:10 p.m.

Ryan Rudd stated that he grew up on the east side of Interstate 15 and moved to Riverton
11 years ago for the 0.50-acre family parcels and trees. He recently subdivided and sold
three parcels near the subject property. At that time, he could have requested that the
properties be rezoned for higher density, but he decided to protect the area and retain the
0.50-acre single-family residential parcels. He is a real estate and construction attorney
who frequently attends municipal meetings and he understands that sometimes a
different use or zoning is appropriate for unique parcels, but that was not the case with
the subject property. He subdivided and sold the nearby parcels for a lot of money, and
the Applicant had the ability to do that as well. It was not a scenario where the land could
not be sold or used as intended, and therefore, he believed the current zoning should be
maintained. He did not believe there would be resistance if they were seeking a variance
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     9
November 13, 2025


for a small portion of the property. He moved to Riverton because this type of use was
not allowed, and he asked that the Planning Commission reject the proposal.

Ashley Mobley stated that she lives on Jared Circle near the proposed development, and
her family has lived in Riverton for generations. Residents are told that no one wants to
live or build on Redwood Road unless it's high-density housing, but that was not the only
answer. It was simply the most convenient one for the parties who stood to profit. She
believes people would be willing to live in single-family homes on Redwood Road if they
had the option to, but the parcels were not marketed that way, and you can't generate
demand for something you have chosen not to offer. Residents were repeatedly asked
to compromise their lifestyles, property values, and the character of the community so
developers could pursue a more lucrative plan. The parcels were purchased with full
knowledge of the zoning, and the developer could make money within the rules everyone
else follows. She believed rezoning would set a precedent for high-density developments
on Redwood Road and rewrite the community's identity. No proposals had been brought
forward that aligned with the current zoning. She believe it was about respecting the
purpose of zoning, residents’ investments, and the safety and character of the
neighborhood. Not every parcel is meant to be maximized for profit. She urged the
Planning Commission to prioritize the people who live and raise families in Riverton and
would remain long after developers moved on to their next project.

Jenny Burbank gave her address as 13717 South Lovers Lane and indicated that she
had lived in the City for almost 40 years. Her family moved from Holladay and loved the
country feel of Riverton. It was terrifying to see so much pushback from the City when
residents just want to keep what they have always had. She did not believe variances
from the master plan should be allowed when it had only recently been finalized and
asked that the Planning Commission reject the proposal.

Mike Kurz stated that he has lived on Dapper Gray Circle adjacent to the subject property
for over 30 years. He agreed with his neighbors and asked that the current zoning be
retained. The Applicant had made no changes since the proposal was first heard a few
months previously, and a similar development on Riverton Ranch Road was denied by
the City Council. He was concerned that the proposed development would create a safety
issue for neighborhood children. 13200 South is a busy road, and children walk to the
school next door. Fifteen units would add 100 trips per day, which would make the
intersection more dangerous. Riverton is growing and developing, but he believes
developments like this would push residents like him out. He asked that the application
be denied and the property owner find another option.

Randy Moore stated that the application was not the same as the one heard previously
because the first application was for 27 units, and the new application was for 15. All
units would have two-car garages, 10 units would also have parking for two cars in the
driveways, and there would be nine guest parking stalls. If that were increased to 10
stalls, it would allow for four vehicles per unit or 60 total vehicles on the site. He has lived
in the area for a long time and seen a lot of changes. Redwood Road has eight traffic
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
November 13, 2025


lanes and is one of the busiest roads in the valley, and property adjacent to the proposed
development was zoned commercial. He asked what would happen to this property and
other remainder parcels if it they were not developed appropriately. The Planning
Commission had a difficult job, but they needed to consider the heavy adjacent uses.

Al Buehler stated that he lives on Riverton Ranch Road. He could not believe the
Applicant’s hutzpah in asking for so many exemptions from the RM-14-D Zone. If they
were allowed to rewrite the zoning ordinance, it would open the door for development
throughout Riverton, and he did not believe the proposal was fair to residents with 0.50-
acre lots.

Josh Aune stated that he owned the Crane House next door to the subject property and
his wife runs the Our Journey Montessori School. The developer had not spoken to him
about their plans. He has been watching the property for some time, and it was auctioned
at a very high price. He believed the proposal for high-density housing was an attempt
to recoup that money, but he did not believe someone’s poor business decisions should
affect the rest of the community. The Crane House fence is as close to the irrigation ditch
as possible. A fence on the subject property may be over the property line, and he did
not think the application should be moved forward when there was a valid property
boundary dispute. He also indicated that the Applicant’s traffic engineer may have failed
to contemplate the Crane House access, as he did not believe City and UDOT
requirements could be met. He recommended that the Applicant not install vinyl fencing.
Both the Aunes and the other adjoining neighbor have livestock, and the neighbor was
forced to cull lambs due to complaints. Allowing high-density housing near livestock
would create more complaints because they are incompatible uses.

Paul Sharp stated that he owns the property to the north of the proposed construction
project. He has lived in Riverton for over 70 years and raised his family and animals in
the City. When Redwood Road was widened, UDOT took 150 feet of his property,
including his home. Three other homes were also taken. He often receives notices
indicating that Riverton does not have enough water for its residents, but they took away
four houses and wanted to build in their place. He moved to Riverton to raise his children
and grandchildren in a place where they could ride a horse or have sheep and cows. His
home was gone, but he still raises animals on the property. The people who moved in
behind him wanted him to get rid of his animals, and he did not have the money to fight
them, so he had to get rid of all four-legged animals, with the exception of his mule. If 15
homes were built next door, they would complain about manure.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed. Chair Cluff thanked
those present for their comments and clarified that the Planning Commission does not
control the agenda. Developers have the right to propose projects on their own land.

Commissioner Cannon applauded the citizens’ for their passion for the community. He
has been a real estate broker and developer for 40 years, and he was a volunteer member
of three state water boards. The Planning Commission tries to make the best decisions
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  11
November 13, 2025


for both residents and the City as a whole. They were dealt a rough hand by UDOT when
they widened Redwood Road, and he was involved in the negotiations on behalf of
homeowners. Mr. Sharp had the opportunity to sell his entire parcel but chose to retain
a portion of the property.

He noted that the item received the most public comments he has heard in his seven
years on the Commission. Property costs are based on risk and return, and the average
age of first-time homebuyers has increased to 40 years old. First-time homebuyers
generally cannot afford a $550,000 home, but the proposal was by far the nicest
townhome product he had seen introduced at this price point. However, he understood
that the citizens present did not believe it was the highest and best use of the property.

Commissioner Cannon reported that the property beside Stampin’ Up! has zoning that
allows for a 55-and-older community, but neighbors rose up against that development.
When he pointed out that the zoning would also allow industrial and warehouse uses,
residents indicated that stopping the project was worth the risk. A new developer
proposed warehouse storage units on the property, and neighbors again spoke out
against the project. He cautioned that the Utah State Legislature was close to passing a
bill that would remove the City’s right to refuse high-density development on major
corridors.

Commissioner Cannon indicated that the proposed access to the property was the best
possible access, regardless of what was developed there. He hoped that the developer
and residents could work together to determine the highest and best use for the property.
The proposal for 15 units was considerably less than the original proposal and in his
opinion, was medium density.

Commissioner Park understood citizens’ apprehension. The Planning Commission
rejected the original proposal for 27 units because it was not the right fit for the property.
His concern was that the legislature seemed determined to take these decisions away
from the community. If cities did not choose to act, he feared that they would no longer
be able to do so. They needed to find middle ground. It was a sensitive property, but
they had to be realistic about how it could be developed and the risk of a much worse
project being approved by the State in the future.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he rode a tractor down a dirt road in that area of
Riverton when he was five years old, and he seized the first opportunity he had to return
there as an adult 29 years ago. Riverton is growing, and his son cannot afford to buy a
house in the City. Compromises needed to be made. The proposal had been downsized,
and he did not believe the project would have a big negative impact on the neighboring
0.50-acre properties. He believed the proposal was a compromise, and it might be a
good thing. Regarding water concerns, if two property owners removed their turf and
replaced it with xeriscape, that would cover the water needs of five townhomes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              12
November 13, 2025


Chair Cluff stated that there are a lot of competing interests in the area. She saw the
value in the community wanting to curate the area to control zoning and maintain a certain
atmosphere. Multiple projects with similar density had been approved in other parts of
the City, but she had difficulty determining the project’s suitability because the area is
very low density and there would be a large disparity in property values of the townhomes
versus surrounding homes. She was concerned that the proposed parking was not
adequate. However, she liked the appearance of the townhomes. High-density housing
would be denied in other areas, but it made more sense on properties like this on main
corridors. A townhome complex near her parents’ home in Herriman sold out instantly.
They are in demand because people want to be homeowners but cannot afford to buy
homes on 0.50-acre lots. She understood both sides of the argument, but she was
inclined to recommend denial of the application due to the property location.

Commissioner Cannon suggested tabling the item until a full quorum was present.
Commissioner Park stated that all absent Commissioners would be supplied with a
transcript of the meeting, as well as all written comments received on the item. It was a
very sensitive topic, and the Planning Commission wanted to ensure that it was given
thorough consideration. Mr. Carter added that due to the circumstances, it would be best
to table the matter to a later date, as that would cure any procedural problems that may
have arisen due to the circumstances. Mr. Lethbridge stated that items are typically
tabled to a date certain, but transcripts take longer to obtain than meeting summaries.
The item would be re-noticed so the public would be aware of the new meeting date.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission TABLE Application
PLZ-25-4007, “Moore Rezone and General Plan Amendment,” to a date uncertain.
Commissioner Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

Commissioner Park stated that the Planning Commission is not trying to delay a decision.
Rather, they wanted to ensure that they are doing the best they could for the community,
and to do so they need input from every Commissioner.

      D.     'UTAH COLLECTIVE SD REZONE,' PLZ-25- 4008, AN APPLICATION TO
             REZONE APPROXIMATELY 1.28-ACRES LOCATED AT 2673 WEST
             11800 SOUTH. THE PROPERTY CURRENTLY OPERATES AS A
             PRIVATE SCHOOL IN AN RR-22 RESIDENTIAL ZONE UNDER A
             PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.             THE
             APPLICANT IS REQUESTING A SPECIAL DESIGNATION ZONING
             OVERLAY BE CREATED FOR THE PROPERTY TO ALLOW FOR A
             NUMBER OF SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS FROM THE EXISTING ZONING
             CODE. APPLICANT - BEN MILAR

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission TABLE Application PLZ-
25-4008, ‘Utah Collective SD Rezone,’ to the December 11, 2025, Planning
 Received
   Public
Comment
