                                  MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             April 9, 2026
Subject:          26-8008 “Extra Space/Towne Storage Monarch Meadows” Amended
                  Commercial Site Plan, located at 5183 West 13400 South. Applicant – Phillip
                  Allred, Action Solar


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function to determine if the project
meets city ordinance and standards. Decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion

I move the Planning Commission approve application #PLZ 26-8008 “Extra Space Storage
Monarch Meadows” Amended Commercial Site Plan with the following conditions:

    1. Site Plan may be amended by adding solar panels as shown, with no roof-top screening
       required.

Background

This application is an amendment to an approved site plan for Extra Space Storage (formerly
Towne Storage) located at 5183 West 13400 South in Monarch Meadows, in the southwest
corner of the city. The zoning is SP Commercial as Monarch Meadows is a Specific
Development. The applicant proposes to amend the site plan by adding solar panels to the west
building parallel to Morning Cloak Way. All other elements of the site plan would remain in
place.

In reviewing the proposed site plan amendment, staff identified an area in need of clarification.
The City’s commercial development code requires screening roof-top mechanical, but solar
panels are not specifically mentioned. As solar panels will continue to be added to more
commercial buildings, planning commissioners should evaluate and decide what this
requirement means for solar panels. Residential solar is not required to be screened.

The applicant proposes to install solar panels on the furthest west building, along Morning Cloak
Way. The building is set back about 20-ft from the nearest sidewalk and over 100-ft to the
nearest residence. The west side of the building is also screened with trees along Morning
Cloak.



Report by: LH
4/6/2026
The building is only about 8-10 feet tall. The panels are proposed to sit flat on a flat roof 4-ft
from each edge of the building. The line of sight graphic illustrates applicant’s contention that
the panels will not be noticeable from the view of a person walking down the sidewalk.

Staff is recommending approval of this project with the conditions listed above, including a
statement that there is no requirement to screen roof-top solar panels.

This project is a public hearing, and notices were sent to property owners within 300-ft. No
comments were received at the time of this report.


Attachments
The following items are attached

         1.     Application for Site Plan Amendment
         2.     Plan Set
         3.     Aerial and Street Views
         4.     Public Noticing




Report by: LH
4/6/2026
