                      RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               MEETING MINUTES
                                MARCH 10, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                   Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                            Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Keith Breinholt                                Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Gary Cannon
Evan Matheson
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. Commissioner
Rushton led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

       A.     REZONE, “PERRY REZONE”, REZONE OF APPROXIMATELY 3.79-
              ACRES AT 4623 WEST 12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT- MICHAEL PERRY.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the staff report and stated the proposed rezone
application will be a legislative action. The Commission will make a recommendation to the
City Council who will make the final decision. Notices were sent to neighbors within 1,000
feet of the property. There were no comments submitted to staff. The 3.79-acre subject
property is located on the corner of 4570 West and 12600 South.

The applicant, Michael Perry, was present on behalf of Perry LHP Investments, which is
connected to Perry Homes. It was reported that the Perry Group developed the Western
Springs Development in the early 2000s. All of the homes in the development are built out,
but the commercial area in the front of the property remains vacant. When the subject
property was originally proposed as part of the Western Springs Development Master Plan,
it was designated as S-P Commercial. The S-P or Community Commercial zoning crosses
12600 South and includes all of the downtown area, the crossroads of 2700 West and 12600
South, the commercial component at the entrance to the City on Redwood Road, and the
commercial development south to Bluffdale. Mr. Prestwich described the various types of
commercial uses in the area on a map displayed.

The General Plan denotes what the City intended for the area or what the City would accept
for zoning. The Zoning Plan shows what the actual zones are and what rules apply to those
zones. He stated that the subject parcel is part of the Western Springs Specific Plan.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
March 10, 2022


Mr. Prestwich shared the history of the zoning map and identified the various commercial
uses in the area and the S-P Commercial Zoning. From the General Plan, Community
Commercial zoning changed to C-G (Commercial Gateway) and C-N (Neighborhood
Commercial) zoning, with some C-PO (Professional Office Commercial) mixed in. He
indicated that C-G Zoning is appropriate for the General Plan and the proposed area, which
is what the applicant was requesting. He presented the original concept plan and stated
that it ended up being fairly close to what was built.

The zoning ordinance within the Western Springs Development Plan specifies that the
Neighborhood Commercial area shall be developed under the regulations set forth in the
Riverton City Zoning Ordinance, Neighborhood Commercial Zone. C-N is the most
restrictive and difficult to develop under, while C-G has more available uses. The subject
property qualifies for C-G zoning, which was intended for uses along entrances into the City.

Mr. Perry reported that Perry Commercial is a sister company to Perry Homes. They do not
know what type of business will be coming into the commercial area, but by rezoning, they
hope to broaden what is possible. Perry Commercial will be building, holding, and leasing
the buildings long-term.

Commissioner Rushton stated that Perry Homes was the original developer of the project
and they have remained invested and involved in the area during that time.

There were no further public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-22-4002, for 3.79-acres at 4623 West 12600 South,
proposed Rezone to Commercial Gateway (C-G) Zone, consistent with the provisions
of the Western Springs Specific Plan. Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       B.     MINOR SUBDIVISION, “KENLOR SUBDIVISION”, TO BE LOCATED AT
              13244 SOUTH 1300 WEST. APPLICANT-KENT AND LORI DENNY.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the application involves dividing one
lot into two. It is located on 13200 South just east of the Cemetery on the south side of the
road. A few years ago the City made improvements on 13200 South, and this property has
frontage on 1300 West. He showed the subject property on the map and explained that it is
1.37-acres and backs onto the canal. Currently, there is an existing home on the property.
An older house that was previously on the property had been removed. Mr. Prestwich
reported that notice was provided to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject
property. No rezoning or Conditional Use Permits were needed and this was the first notice
that has been sent out. There were a few neighbors with questions regarding water rights
and the possibility of purchasing a lot. No major concerns were expressed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
March 10, 2022

The existing home was to remain and there will just be two lots. Mr. Prestwich reported that
this is an administrative approval and the Planning Commission’s job is to make sure that
the project complies with the ordinance. The Engineering, Planning, and Fire Departments
reviewed the application prior to it being presented to the Planning Commission. The Civil
Plans for the subdivision include a cover sheet, a Subdivision Plat or Final Plat, a
Topographic and Boundary Survey, a Grading Plan – including storm drainage, a Street
Improvement Plan, and a Utility Plan or Site Plan. Mr. Prestwich stated that there was an
error in the square footage number, but it had since been corrected on the final plans. The
lot is one-half acre in size with the rear portion being slightly larger at .87-acre.

Mr. Prestwich reported that there are multiple signatures required for a subdivision plan. It
usually takes three to four months to get a project to the Planning Commission after going
through all of the necessary reviews. There is a ditch on the property, and the plans did not
show it as having been addressed. City ordinance specifies that the ditch needs to be piped
or abandoned and cannot remain open. If there is evidence that the ditch is being used for
irrigation or water rights, they need to be preserved, both by City ordinance and by State
Code. The applicant needs to sign an affidavit stating that they are aware of the situation
with the ditch and how their development will impact the ditch and take full responsibility to
maintain and preserve the water rights. Mr. Prestwich described the motion and reviewed
the conditions set forth in the Staff Report.

Commissioner Rushton asked what triggers the requirement for a six-foot masonry fence
adjacent to a canal. Mr. Prestwich stated that when it has to do with a subdivision, the
masonry fence is required. City Attorney, Ryan Carter explained that while it may seem to
be a stringent requirement, if exceptions were made based on the size of the subdivision,
developers could find ways to avoid certain development standards. Commissioner
Rushton argued that there are exceptions to small subdivisions with respect to private lane
width. Mr. Carter responded that while there may be some correlations between the two
standards, the fencing issue comes into play mostly for safety reasons. He cited an instance
where there was a breach in a vinyl fence adjacent to a canal and a toddler died as a result.
That situation drove the City Council to create this particular ordinance. Mr. Prestwich added
that private lanes are desirable to the City, so they are allowed under certain conditions. He
also stated that the fencing ordinance specifies that the Commission may waive required
fencing on residential projects of two acres or less. Mr. Carter stated that the applicant
would need to obtain a Conditional Use Permit to provide for a waiver.

Commissioner Cannon recalled a property on 11700 South on the same canal where the
applicant asked for a variance in the fencing material. Mr. Prestwich stated that in that case,
there was an issue with the slope and footings. He ended up being an Ordinance
Amendment and the City Council changed it from solid masonry to allow for hollow foam
core. Commissioner Cannon stated that it was the result of a conversation he had with the
developer and the fact that along the 24 miles of canal, there have been a number of
incidents where the weight of the masonry wall compromised the integrity of the wall over
time.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the website does not include the updated ordinance. He agreed
to address the matter.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
March 10, 2022


Commissioner Park asked about the ditch and if it must be piped or just maintained.
Mr. Prestwich clarified that it must be piped.

Chair Cluff asked if the portion of the canal that fronts 13200 South is required to have the
six-foot masonry fence. Mr. Prestwich explained that the canal companies require access
for maintenance. Historically, canal companies have been granted protection from third
parties in terms of liability if someone were to drown. The City regulates what happens in
the vicinity of a canal by requiring fencing when creating a subdivision.

Commissioner Rushton asked for clarification and asked if there is latitude with the fencing
requirement for properties that are smaller than two acres or if the Commission can consider
a different type of fencing. Mr. Carter explained that there are absolute standards in certain
instances and one involves proximity to the canal. As Mr. Prestwich was reviewing the
ordinance and the possibility of a Conditional Use Permit, he found language that states that
a Conditional Use Permit cannot circumvent the fencing requirement. Mr. Prestwich
explained that the paragraph noted earlier was under the heading, “Incompatible Uses” and
does not apply in this instance. He was incorrect in bringing that language into the
conversation as it does not apply.

Commissioner Rushton asked if it was possible to allow for other fencing options. Mr. Carter
explained that additional research may be required to determine if a lighter-core material
would be sufficient. Mr. Prestwich suggested recommending approval of what is proposed
as a masonry fence and leaving out the word solid. If the ordinance has changed, the
applicant could pursue the pre-cast foam core option. If it has not changed, he could request
a variance similar to the previous applicant or there could be a text change in the ordinance.
It was confirmed that a text change would be required if the applicant wishes to pursue
fencing other than solid masonry.

Commissioner Cannon asked if the applicant intends to access the westernmost lot at 13200
South or if there will be an entrance off 1300 West. He also mentioned that the irrigation
line does not run out of the canal. He asked if the applicant was aware that there may not
be any users east of the subject property. Commissioner Cannon asked Mr. Prestwich if
there was a stormwater discharge distribution system near the subject property.
Mr. Prestwich verified that there is not. He explained that a puddles form and the frontage
improvements the applicant is proposing will alleviate much of the puddling.

Commissioner Cannon commented that the City has done a very good job of improving
sidewalks, curb, and gutter to the north but not as well south of 13200 South. They have
begun requiring a canal company block on the mylar to acknowledge that a property is next
to the canal. The Canal Company and property owner were aware of the situation. He
suggested that they add a block to the mylar indicating that the Canal Company is signing
off on it.

The applicant, Kent Denny, reported that they are subdividing the 1.38 acres and plan to put
up new fences and build a new house. They were fully aware of improvements that need to
be made on 1300 West. There is a seep hole next to the pine tree where the water puddles
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   5
March 10, 2022

in front of the property. He stated that typically the water that puddles there is from the ditch
on the opposite side of the property in the neighbor’s yard. They plan to fill in the ditch to
preserve the neighbor’s water rights. If it was an option they would prefer to install a chain-
link fence at the canal rather than a masonry wall. The new homes on the opposite side of
the canal do not have any fencing at all. He asked Mr. Prestwich if any redlines need to be
addressed. Mr. Prestwich stated that there are not. Mr. Denny clarified that the correct
property address is 13224 South rather than 13244 South. He stated that they are working
on approvals and permits and that there should not be any easements to consider.

Commissioner Cannon commented that this property is unique with 24 miles of canal. He
said that the Canal Company has never had the desire to access this area because of the
steep grade from the proposed lot to the water. They have been discussing a possible trail
system through the area but it has not been maintained for a long time. Mr. Denny reported
that a Canal Company employee removed some of the debris and deadfall.

Chair Cluff stated that the Commission does not have any leeway regarding the type of
fencing. The decision would need to be made by the City Council.

There were no further public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Rushton asked that condition number 6 be reworded to allow the applicant
to approach the City regarding alternate fencing material. Mr. Carter stated that it could be
as simple as saying that the material should be something other than solid core masonry.
He stated that solid core is not mentioned in the condition, so there should not be an issue.
However, if the conditions of approval are established today and a new fencing standard is
later adopted by the Council that is less onerous than the current one, the applicant would
not violate the standard. The Commission could choose to add wording to account for
possible changes in the ordinance.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-21-
1010 “KenLor Subdivision”, to be located at 13224 South 1300 West with the following
conditions:

       1.     Address any outstanding Riverton City staff redline comments on the
              plans.

       2.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with Riverton City
              Standards and ordinances, and with the recommendations of the
              Riverton City Engineering Division.

       3.     The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
              applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

       4.     Any necessary easements or agreements on the property be recorded
              with Salt Lake County Recorder.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     6
March 10, 2022

       5.     The site and structure shall comply with all applicable standards and
              ordinances of the City, including the International Building and Fire
              Code.

       6.     A six-foot masonry fence that meets city ordinance shall be installed
              along the west property line that abuts the canal unless other materials
              are approved by the City in the future.

       7.     Existing irrigation Ditches must be piped according to Riverton City
              Ordinance.

Chair Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

       C.     CONDITIONAL USE, “CROSSMAN PRIVATE LANE”, TO BE LOCATED AT
              3522 WEST 13400 SOUTH. APPLICANT-RON CROSSMAN.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request is for a private lane in
an area of the City that is mostly built out and differs from previous private lane applications.
He displayed photos of the property and stated that historically, owners or developers come
to the City and ask about available options for development. He explained that there has
been a lot of infill done over the past several years in cases like this one. This property has
a private lane on the west side, but the existing home does not have access rights to the
lane. For the lane to be accessed by the applicant, there must be an agreement with the
owner of the lane, which may not be possible. It might also be that a lane on the opposite
side would be a better alternative for the applicant. There is nothing in the ordinance
prohibiting parallel private lanes.

The front property is one acre in size and the rear property is just over one acre. Both are
zoned RR-22. Public notice was sent to all property owners within 300 feet and several
phone calls were received regarding the application along with a written comment that was
provided in the packet. He displayed a sketch of what the applicant would like to do along
with zoning maps and aerial views of the property.

Mr. Prestwich reported that private lanes must meet ‘A’ and ‘B’ or ‘C’ of the section in the
ordinance. ‘A’ specifies that it is a lot of record that is pre-existing. ‘B’ states that it can be
demonstrated that the property cannot be physically divided with public streets and that
development on a private lane would not impede the right-of-way for public streets. ‘C’
specifies that the development does not impede necessary access from adjoining properties
as required by the Master Transportation Plan. Mr. Prestwich referred to the Master
Transportation Plan and stated that there are no future roads planned in the area. Staff
believes that the application meets standards ‘B’ and ‘C’ qualifies for a private lane.

The applicant was requesting 25 feet of paved surface for the private lane. If there is a fire
hydrant that the Fire Department needs to access they will likely require 26 feet of paved
surface. Following the 25-foot minimum does not lock them in if the Fire Department
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
March 10, 2022

requires a fire hydrant and the extra foot of paved surface. There currently is a fire hydrant
on the property and the Fire Department has not yet looked at the Conceptual Plan.

Comments received included requests of the Commission to restrict the homes to ramblers
and to protect the open space. There was nothing the Planning Commission or Staff could
do to restrict the applicant to a Conditional Use Permit as the zoning is already in place and
allows for up to a 35-foot home. Staff recommended approval.

Commissioner Park asked if multiple property owners were applying for the private lane.
Mr. Prestwich confirmed that that is the case. He identified on the map the location of the
property lines and which owners are applying for the private lane. He stated that this
property is probably the most uniquely shaped lot in Riverton City. In response to a question
raised by Commissioner Park, Mr. Prestwich stated that the rear portion is at least one-half
acre in size and complies with the RR-22 zoning.

Commissioner Matheson asked how they would add a turnaround for emergency vehicles.
Mr. Prestwich explained that the owner has options to extend the road to loop around if a
turnaround does not work. Commissioner Matheson asked if they extended the road if that
would decrease their acreage below the required one-half acre. Mr. Prestwich stated that it
would not as it would be considered an easement and part of the overall acreage.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the three lots include the one on 13400 South.
Mr. Prestwich explained that at this point it is not considered part of the three lots but there
are other options for growth in the future in cooperation with neighboring properties.

The applicant, Ron Crossman, described how the application came about with the property
owners in the back wanting a private lane as well. He stated that the three-lot subdivision
application allows for a future third home or accessory building without violating the Code.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Park asked for clarification on the application and the request before the
Commission. Mr. Prestwich explained that the next step would be the subdivision
application. Mr. Carter stated that from a developer’s standpoint, there is a risk as to whether
a Conditional Use Permit will be granted. Once approval is granted, engineering work can
begin on the subdivision.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-
2005 “Crossman Private Lane”, to be located at 3522 West 13400 South with the
following conditions:

       1.     Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private
              lanes.

       2.     A maximum of three (3) lots may access the private lane.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             8
March 10, 2022

      3.     Private lane shall be at least 25-feet wide drivable surface.

      4.     Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the
             standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
             Specifications.

      5.     The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and
             emergency response.

      6.     The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval prior to any construction
             commencing on the private lane.

Commissioner Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      D.     AMEND SITE PLAN, “SMART COMMERCIAL BUILDING” AMENDING THE
             EXTERIOR OF AN EXISTING COMMERCIAL BUILDING LOCATED AT
             1868 WEST 12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT-JARED SMART REPRESENTING
             DALIA REAL ESTATE. **CONTINUED FROM THE FEBRUARY 24
             MEETING**

Mr. Prestwich reported that the above item was continued from the previous meeting and
asked that it be continued again. He displayed photos of the proposed plan and stated that
the applicant hired an architect to help with the amendment to the building’s exterior.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE PLZ-21-8002 “Smart
Retail” to the next Commission Meeting. Commissioner Matheson seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     N/A.

4.    MINUTES

      A.     FEBRUARY 24, 2022.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Minutes
of the February 24, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting, as presented.
Commissioner Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

5.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:45 p.m.
