                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 9, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-22-8019 Amend Site Plan, amending the exterior of an existing commercial
                 building located at 3843 West 13400 South. Applicant- Donna Allen


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
   1. I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-8019 “Original Pancake House
      (OPH) Riverton” amending the exterior of an existing commercial building located at
      3843 West 13400 South as presented.

    2. I move the Planning Commission deny application PLZ-22-8019 “Original Pancake
       House (OPH) Riverton” amending the exterior of an existing commercial building
       located at 3843 West 13400 South.

Background

This is a public hearing for amending a commercial site plan located on the south side of 13400
South at 3843 West. Amended Site Plans are for changes to a previously approved site plan,
or the architecture or appearance of a commercial building.

Commercial Buildings are reviewed by the Planning Commission as part of commercial site
plans, and must conform to Riverton City Code. When a property owner desires to change an
existing commercial building they must apply for an amended commercial site plan.

The applicant, Donna Allen, wishes to take over the existing IHOP building and transition to the
Original Pancake House (OHP) and serve breakfast menu items. The site, parking, and
landscape around the building will remain untouched. The applicant is seeking approval to
make changes to colors of the roof, stucco exterior trim, door, awning and window frames to the
OPH branding and color scheme. The exterior brick and stone will NOT be modified with these
proposed changes.

This item was noticed as a public hearing item, the mailers went to property owners within 300-ft
(all commercial properties), but no comments had been received when this report was written.



Report by: TJP
6/3/2022
Recommendations

Most of Riverton’s commercial buildings were built within the past 20 years during good
economic times. All commercial developments, were encouraged and required to follow the
architectural standards found in the ordinance and to follow architectural and design elements
consistent in style to the surrounding buildings. These standards have been in place for many
years with very little change.

As our commercial buildings age, or tenants change, we have seen an increase in applications
for exterior changes and remodels. These have been reviewed and approved by the
Commission.

Staff is recommending approval of the application as shown in the proposed drawing.




Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Public Notice including Area Map.
        2. Application.
        3. Color Elevation of the Exterior.




Report by: TJP
6/3/2022
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, June 9, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Hotcakes Utah, LLC represented by Donna Allen is seeking approval for an amended commercial
site plan for , “OPH Riverton”, to be located in an existing commercial building at 3843 West 13400
South.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertonutah.gov
