                                   MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Dustin Jensen, Applicant
Date:             March 23, 2023
Subject:          PLZ-23-5004, Amendments to the M-1 Uses,


This application is a public hearing and legislative recommendation item.
In rendering a decision the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on
reasonably debatable evidence. Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council
which has final decision authority for changing the Zoning Ordinance.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of the requested amendment to the M-1 Zone to
allow zero lot line development.

OR

I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of the requested amendment to the M-1 Zone.

Background

This is a request by a property owner, Dustin Jensen, to change the text in the M-1 Zone to enable him to
build storage units on an existing site.

Dustin owns the carwash at 3191 West 12600 South, the carwash was built in 2004. The carwash property
is 1.52-acres and is in the M-1 Zone. The M-1 Zone has its own Table of Uses (18.95.010) and
development standards (18.95.010).      Currently there are only eleven (11) sites or about fourteen (14)
parcels that are zoned M-1. With most being on the south side of 12600 South near Castlewood Estates,
and the others on the east side of Stampin Up.

As stated in the text of the M-1 zone, the purpose of the M-1 Zone is: “To provide areas in appropriate
locations where light manufacturing, industrial processes and warehousing may be established with sensitive
relationships to adjacent agricultural, residential and commercial land uses.”

The applicant is requesting a change to the text of the Development Standards to allow a zero-lot line 1
development as described in the exhibit attached to his application. The requested language for a zero-lot
line comes from existing city code found in the C-G Zone and would be applied only to storage units as an
exception to the regular set-backs.




1
 The application says a request for a 10’ to 20’ setback, but also refers to the attached exhibit which is the code for a
zero-lot line. Staff talked with the applicant to determine the attached exhibit describing a zero-lot line is the
applicant’s request.


3/20/2023
             Current M-1 Setbacks                                Proposed M-1 Setbacks


                                                            Zero lot lines, or structures constructed with
                                                            no setback from the property lines, may be
                                                            allowed for storage unit facilities where the
                                                            structure(s) are being incorporated in
                                                            perimeter fencing or enclosure of some or all
                                                            of the site. A conditional use permit in
                                                            conjunction with site plan approval is
                                                            required for zero lot line development.
                                                            Where adjacent to residential zones, criteria
                                                            for consideration may include the proposed
                                                            building height at property line and control of
                                                            runoff and drainage.




Issues and Staff Recommendations
A zone text change is like a rezone, in that the Planning Commission is acting to recommend a legislative
change to the City Council. The City Council will make the final decision. Like a rezone, the Commission
has broad discretion and can base their recommendations on reasonably debatable standard. However, a
zone text change has some very important differences from a rezone including:
             1. A zone text change applies to all properties in the particular zone.
             2. Noticing for a zone text change does not include mailers to properties within 1,000-ft of the
                 subject property.
Because this requested change would apply to all properties zoned M-1, the Commission should consider
the potential impacts to all properties not just to the applicant’s site.

An example of a reasonably debatable argument for recommending approval could be: “a storage unit wall
is very similar to a fence.”

An example of a reasonably debatable argument for recommending denying the requested change could
be: “allowing storage units at a zero-lot line is not sensitive to the adjacent residential as stated in the
purpose of the M-1 zone.”

Attachments
The following items are attached:

    1. Application page.
    2. Exhibit containing the proposed Zero-lot line language.
    3. Zoning Area map showing M-1 Zone area.




3/20/2023
            M-1




                  M-1




3/20/2023
