                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           October 22, 2024
Subject:        Code Text Amendment PLZ-24-5003, Amending Section 18.225, Accessory
                Structures, regulating use of storage/cargo containers, amendments proposed by
                Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative recommendation
function, decisions are based on reasonably debated evidence.

Example Motions
   I move the Planning Commission recommend amendment of Section 18.225, Accessory
   Structures, with amendments as described herein, with the following additional changes:

Background



Under Riverton City code, storage/cargo containers are prohibited on residential properties.
However, many owners have brought them into compliance with Section 18.225 by attaching
compliant exterior building materials to the container, and placing it on their property in compliance
with setbacks and other regulations. The storage container essentially forms the internal structure of
the accessory building. This has occurred under the direction of City staff, and in consultation with
the City Attorney’s office, and is considered consistent with existing City Code. However, in an effort
to clarify for the public and the City the conditions under which this can occur, staff is proposing
amendments to Section 18.225, Accessory Structures.

The proposed amendments clarify that while storage containers are prohibited, they may form the
internal structure of an accessory building provided all standards of the code are met, including
exterior materials. Language was added to prohibit stacking of containers. The doors and roof of
the container may be left as metal, as Riverton City’s code does not specify materials requirements
for doors or roofs of accessory structures. The amendment does stipulate that the doors must be
painted a single color, and all logos, letters, and numbers must be removed.

The proposed amendment also stipulates that where a container is used for agricultural purposes, it
must still have exterior building materials consistent with the existing code.

At the previous hearing on this amendment, the Commission requested additional language for
review where storage containers could potentially be allowed. After reviewing similar ordinances in


Report by: JL
10/22/2024
place in other municipalities, language similar to the following would allow storage containers with
certain criteria:

(h) Storage containers, freight containers, box cars, and similar storage equipment may be used
as accessory structures with the following requirements:

     1. All applicable requirements of this section, and any other relevant sections of this code, must
        be met, including setback and coverage limitations.

     2. The container must be painted a single color consistent with general coloring of the main
        dwelling.

     3. The container must be free from any logo(s) or alpha-numeric characters.

     4. The container must be maintained without visible rust or damage.

     5. Temporary storage containers may be used during a move may be used only for move-
          in/move-out purposes, provided they are only placed within the private property area.
          Temporary containers may not be present on the property for more than seven days.

Staff will present additional information at the public hearing. The proposed code amendments are
shown below.




Report by: JL
10/22/2024
                                                      Chapter 18.225

                                           ACCESSORY STRUCTURES


Sections:
18.225.020      General standards.
18.225.030      Location of accessory structures.
18.225.040      Architectural standards.
18.225.050      Agricultural structures.
18.225.060      Carports/temporary vehicle storage.
18.225.070      Swimming pools.
18.225.080      Accessory dwelling units.

18.225.020 General standards.
(1) General Standards. In addition to the use limitations and other regulations for the zoning district in which the
accessory structure is proposed, no accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed unless it complies with the
following requirements:

     (a) All accessory structures shall be incidental and subordinate to the principal use and/or structure on the
     property.

     (b) An accessory structure shall be under the same ownership or control as the principal structure and/or use on
     the property.

     (c) No accessory structure shall be established or constructed before the main dwelling or structure is under
     construction, and no accessory structure shall be occupied prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
     main dwelling or structure.

     (d) No accessory structure shall include a residential dwelling, nor may an accessory structure be rented or
     otherwise used as a separate dwelling, except as provided in RCC 18.225.080.

     (e) All accessory structures shall comply with any and all applicable standards and requirements of the
     International Building and Fire Codes.

     (f) Play structures less than 15 feet in height and with a covered and/or enclosed floor area of less than 30
     square feet are exempt from the general restrictions of this chapter, but must comply with all setback
     requirements for accessory structures.

     (g) It shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner to obtain a release from the utility companies and
     any other entity holding rights to public utility or other easements on the property prior to any construction
     within those areas.

     (h) Storage containers, freight containers, box cars, and similar storage equipment are prohibited, but may be
     used as the internal structure of an accessory building as described in 18.225.040(3)(b)(i). All other applicable
     provisions of this Code also apply. Storage containers may not be stacked. Temporary storage containers may
     be used during a move, but may not be present on the property for more than seven days. [Ord. 21-20 § 1 (Exh.
     A); Ord. 19-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.030 Location of accessory structures.
(1) Measurements. For the purpose of this chapter, measurements shall be from the foundation of the accessory
building to property line, or to foundation of the main dwelling.

(2) Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from the main dwelling.

(3) A minimum distance of five feet shall be maintained between accessory structures.



Report by: JL
10/22/2024
(4) Accessory structures may not encroach into any public utility or other easement without written permission to
encroach from all parties with rights to the easement.

(5) Front Yards. All accessory structures are prohibited within any required front yard area, and no accessory
structure shall extend within 10 feet of the front plane of the main dwelling.

(6) Side Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the side property line, except
as follows:

     (a) All accessory structures located between the main structure and the side property line shall maintain the
     same side yard setback as required for the main structure.

     (b) All accessory structures on corner lots shall maintain the minimum corner side yard setback as required for
     the main dwelling.

     (c) Single-story accessory structures of 200 square feet or less and below 16 feet in height shall be located a
     minimum of one foot from the side property lines, provided no portion of the building extends over the
     property line and runoff is contained to the property.

     (d) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height and/or including a second floor or story shall have a minimum
     side yard setback of 15 feet.

(7) Rear Setbacks. Accessory structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from the rear property line, except
as follows:

     (a) Single-story accessory structures of 200 square feet or less and below 16 feet in height shall be located a
     minimum of one foot from the rear property line, provided no portion of the building extends over the property
     line and runoff is contained to the property.

     (b) Accessory structures over 20 feet in height and/or including a second floor or story shall have a minimum
     rear yard setback of 15 feet. [Ord. 21-20 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-31 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-21 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord.
     11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.040 Architectural standards.
(1) Maximum Size. The maximum size of any accessory structure is two times the size of the footprint of the
principal structure (house and attached garage), and the maximum total size of all accessory structure(s) on any
parcel shall be limited to 10 percent of the total lot area, with any private lane as approved by Riverton City
excluded from the lot area.

(2) Maximum Height.

     (a) The maximum height of accessory structures shall be 20 feet. On property of at least 10,000 square feet the
     maximum height may be up to 25 feet.

     (b) Accessory structures on property below one-third acre (14,000 square feet) in size shall be limited to one
     story. Unfinished storage areas under the roof trusses may be permitted, but shall not include finished walls or
     ceiling, or utilities such as plumbing or electrical not associated with mechanical equipment. Access to such
     unfinished storage areas shall not include stairs, and shall utilize ladder access only. On property of at least
     one-third acre and zoned R-3, R-2, RR-22, R-1, or A-5, a second story may be allowed.

     (c) Height shall be measured from finished grade to the highest point on the structure.

(3) Exterior Materials and Design. Architectural standards, including general appearance, building materials, and
color, shall be as follows:

     (a) Accessory structures of 200 square feet or less shall be consistent in color and design with the main
     dwelling.



Report by: JL
10/22/2024
     (b) Accessory structures greater than 200 square feet shall utilize only exterior building materials that are
     present on the main dwelling, excluding trim and nonarchitectural elements, structural materials, and prohibited
     materials. Colors shall be similar in tone and complementary to those used on the main dwelling. Wood or
     wood product siding, exposed plywood or particle board, corrugated metal, or similar materials are prohibited
     as exterior materials. Fiber-cement siding and aluminum or other metal siding may be substituted for vinyl
     siding if such siding is similar in color and appearance to the vinyl siding used on the main dwelling, as
     approved by the planning manager.

         (i) Where a storage/cargo container is utilized as the interior structure of an accessory building, it must
     have exterior materials attached compliant with this Section. Door(s) and the container roof do not require
     exterior treatment, but the door(s) must be painted in a single color and free from logos or alphanumeric
     characters. The storage/cargo container must also comply with all required setbacks and provisions of this
     Code.

     (c) Accessory structures greater than 1,200 square feet shall include a minimum of 20 percent of the front
     exterior walls, and of the street side(s) of a corner lot, in masonry such as brick or stone same type, coloring,
     and/or style as on the main dwelling.

           (i) On property of at least one acre and zoned RR-22, R-1, or A-5, split-face or honed block may be used
           in place of stucco or other materials, but may not be substituted for any required brick, stone or other
           masonry consistent with that used on the home.

     (d) For accessory structures greater than 200 square feet where exterior materials on the main dwelling consist
     exclusively of masonry such as brick or stone, the exterior side of the accessory structure facing the front of the
     lot shall be entirely masonry of the same type and style on the main dwelling. For the remaining sides, the
     lower one-third of each side shall be masonry as used on the front elevation, and the remaining exterior may
     consist of stucco and/or vinyl or fiber-cement siding that is complementary to the main dwelling in color and
     design. [Ord. 22-09 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 21-20 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-31 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-21 § 1 (Exh. A);
     Ord. 18-14 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-26 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 11-15 § 1 (Exh. A).]

18.225.050 Agricultural structures.
(1) Agricultural Structures. Accessory structures constructed on parcels of at least one-half acre and used
exclusively for agricultural use, defined as exclusively for the growing of plants (greenhouses), the storage of farm
animals and/or feed, as defined by ordinance, or of equipment used for commercial agricultural production on
parcels of at least 20 acres. Agricultural structures shall comply with the requirements of this chapter except as
follows:

     (a) Agricultural structures for animals must be designed such that the primary function of the structure is the
     keeping of farm animals and/or feed. Structures for the growing of plants shall be designed exclusively for that
     use, including exterior materials.

     (b) Agricultural structures above 20 feet in height shall be located a minimum of 15 feet from side and rear
     property lines. Agricultural structures 20 feet or below shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from property
     line. Agricultural structures shall, if located on a corner lot, comply with standard corner lot setback
     requirements.

     (c) Agricultural structures may not be located within 40 feet of any residential dwelling.

     (d) Maximum height of agricultural structures shall be 35 feet, with the exception of greenhouses, which may
     not exceed 20 feet in height.

     (e) Agricultural structures may, on approval from the planning department, utilize such exterior building
     materials that are appropriate to the use, while complementary to the main dwelling and to the surrounding
     community. Greenhouses must utilize translucent or transparent material designed to allow increased sunlight
     as the primary exterior material, including roofing material. Where a storage/cargo container is used as an
     agricultural structure, exterior building materials are required, except for door(s) and roof areas.



Report by: JL
10/22/2024
