                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             August 14, 2025
Subject:          PLZ-25-2034, Conditional Use, “Dansie Cove Private Lane”, to be located
                  at 3112 West 13400 South. Applicant- Alan Prince



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2034 “Dansie Cove Private Lane”, to
be located at 3112 West 13400 South with the following conditions:

      1. Approval is for a private lane, with up to five (5) lots accessing the private lane.
      2. Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      3. Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the
          requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City Standards and
          Specifications.
      4. Private lane shall be at least 25-feet wide in paved surface. “No Parking” signs shall
          be installed as required by Fire Code.
      5. The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the standards of
          the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      6. The private lane shall be named and a private street sign shall be installed according to
          Riverton City standards.
      7. The private lane entrance shall meet Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but
          not limited to design, width, number of driveways and separation distance between
          driveways.
      8. The private lane shall be maintained by the homeowners; no City maintenance will be
          performed on the private lane.
      9. A written agreement for the shared access and shared maintenance of the private lane
          must be submitted with the subdivision Final Plat.
      10. No construction on the lane may begin before a Subdivision Plan is approved by Riverton
          City.

 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use Permit for a private lane. The applicant, Alan Prince,
is requesting permission to use a private lane to serve up to five (5) residential lots. The subject
property is located at approximately 3112 West 13400 South. This property is approximately 2.32-
 Report by: TJP
acres and was the subject of a recent Planning Commission rezone hearing on June 12, 2025.
Later, the City Council approved the rezone request, changing the zoning from RR-22 to R-3 (see
attached Riverton City Ordinance # 25-20). This zone change was the first step in the development
process and allows the applicant to apply for a private lane. If approved, the private lane
application will be followed by an application for a subdivision.

The applicant is requesting a private lane because there is not room for a public street and a
public street would not connect to other nearby public streets. Riverton City Code states a
preference for single-family residential development to use public streets. However, the code
makes allowance and provisions so private lanes may be used on properties where a public street
may be impossible or impractical. The Planning Commission determines if a private lane can be
used in a particular setting. The Commission evaluates applications for private lanes following
the criteria in City Code set out in 18.35.070 (for lots in the R-3 Zone).

Staff believes this property should be considered for a private lane because:
   • There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master Transportation Plan.
   • No local streets are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property.
   • A private lane would not affect access to neighboring properties.

The minimum paved width required by City code for a lane serving 5-lots is 25-feet of pavement.
At this width fire code would require both sides of the private lane to be signed as “No Parking”.
Fire Code allows parking on one side of a private lane if the lane is paved with at least 26-ft of
concrete or asphalt.

If the Commission approves this application to use a private lane, the owner will proceed to a
Preliminary Subdivision Plan which would complete the design of the private lane and other
elements of the proposed subdivision.      A preliminary subdivision plan would return to the
Commission to be heard in a public hearing. No construction could begin on the private lane until
the subdivision plat is approved.



Recommendations

Staff believes this meets the criteria for a private lane and is therefore recommending approval
with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.




 Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
   1. Does this property qualify for a private lane?
   2. What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
      (such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length)


A private lane is subject to these requirements

 (1) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
 properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
 with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
 methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
 portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
 subsequently:
        (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.
        (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.
        (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
        meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.
        (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
        additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city up
        to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
        determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (2) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.

 (3) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
 based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
 on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

 (4) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
 required by city officials or workers.

 (5) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
 streets shall apply to all buildings and usesadjoining private
 rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required
 private lane width. No portion of the private lane may be
 counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual
 lots. On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is
 occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private lane area
 may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see
 Figure 1).


 (6) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
 approved fire protection infrastructure.

 (7) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
 Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.
 Report by: TJP
(8) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(9) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(10) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(11) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(12) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.


Fire Code Parking Rules for Private Lanes

                    Drivable Lane Width                                      Parking Rules
                         20-26 feet                                     No Parking both sides.
                         26-32 feet                                     No Parking on one side.
                      32 feet and over                               Parking allowed on both sides.




Attachments

The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map
          2.     Application
          3.     Conceptual Site Plan
          4.     City Ordinance 25-20 “Dansie Cove Rezone”




Report by: TJP
                                                      NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                              The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                              on Thursday, August 14, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                              Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood
                                              Road to take public comment on the following application:
                                    Alan Prince is requesting approval of Conditional Use for a Private
Lane to provide access to five (5) lots in a future subdivision. The subject properties are located near
3112 West 13400 South.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3124.

                                                     HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public, and public comments will be taken in the meeting. The staff report will be available for public
review through the City website prior to the meeting. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes
will be available following the meeting. Public comments for this item may also be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov
or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning
Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php. This link will take you to the applicable
meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review by the Planning Commission. Staff
reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                 12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               6
June 12, 2025



      4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.     No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m.
             or after 7:00 p.m.

      6.     Applicant may employ one non-resident employee. Employee must
             use off-street parking.

      7.     Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for
             business activities.

      8.     Applicant must use roasting equipment with built-in air filtration that
             does not create outside odors.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion.               The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.


      B.     “DANSIE 2025 REZONE,” PLZ-25-4005, AN APPLICATION TO AMEND
             THE GENERAL PLAN AND REZONE APPROXIMATELY 2.32 ACRES
             LOCATED AT 3082 AND 3112 WEST 13400 SOUTH FROM RR-22
             (SINGLE-FAMLY ESTATE-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL) TO R-3 (SINGLE-
             FAMILY LOW-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL).

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that when considering
a rezone, the Planning Commission is to determine whether what is proposed is good for
the City and act as a recommending body to the City Council. Only a reasonable reason
is needed to recommend approval or denial. The subject property is part of the Dansie
Family property for which a rezone was completed in 2015. Notice was sent to neighbors
within 1,000 feet. An aerial view of the property was presented along with the rezone and
subdivision done in 2014, 2015, and 2016 to R3. The applicants would like to rezone
from R-22 to R3. The General Plan and Zoning Map were displayed. The Zoning Map
provides the current rules regarding what can be done with property in Riverton City and
aligns with City Code. The General Plan in 80% of the City matches the zoning. In other
areas, the City Council has said based on a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, that there are areas where they would consider changing the zoning. The
General Plan alerts the property owners and developers that the City may consider
making a change.

The subject property is designated Estate Density and Low Density in the General Plan
Map. Low Density is the equivalent of the R-3 Zone, and Estate Density is equivalent to
R-1 or RR-22, with 0.5-acre or larger lots and animal rights. Three neighboring properties
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
June 12, 2025


are zoned RR-22 but are nonconforming parcels of less than 0.5 acres. Mr. Prestwich
reported that, although not required, City Staff recommended amending the General Plan
in conjunction with the rezone request. The primary difference between the current RR-
22 Zone and the proposed R-3 Zone are lot size and animal rights. RR-22 includes animal
rights for 0.5-acre or larger lots.

Mr. Prestwich reported that two public comments were received from neighboring
property owners. The first letter was included in the Meeting Packet and requested an
eight-foot masonry fence along the shared property line. He reminded the Commission
that fencing would be reviewed during the Subdivision Plat process.

After the Planning Commission made a recommendation to approve or deny the
application, new notices would be sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject
property informing them of the date and location of the City Council meeting where the
application would be considered. The City Council could choose to follow the
Commission’s recommendation or take other action. If the zone change was approved,
the Applicant would submit a new application for a private lane, followed by an application
for a subdivision, both of which would be noticed to property owners within 300 feet of the
subject property.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
fencing and other site issues would be reviewed with the Subdivision Plat application.
City Code requires a six-foot masonry fence between non-animal rights and animal rights
properties, and he was unsure if the Planning Commission could require additional height.
He would discuss the matter with City Attorney, Ryan Carter prior to bringing it back
before the Commission. If the subdivision is less than two acres in size, the Planning
Commission could also decide that a solid masonry fence is not required.

The Applicant, Alan Prince of MP&G LLC stated that he has developed many infill projects
in his career. A project to the east of the subject property has a private lane that services
three homes, whereas his project would have a total of five homes. Other aspects of the
subdivisions, including home and lot size, are very similar. They intend to install a 25-
foot private lane that conforms with all City and County requirements. The shoulder will
be landscaped, and a fence will be installed along the Dansie property line to match the
existing fencing. The two existing parcels would be subdivided into six lots, but the Dansie
parcel would not be part of the subdivision. They will build a home for the Dansies’ son
on one lot, with single-family homes on the remaining four lots.

Commissioner Cannon commented that the trend is for smaller lots, but the future
subdivision would have approximately 0.33-acre lots.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prince stated that the subdivision will be
1.82 acres, including the private lane, with five 13,000 to 14,000-square-foot lots.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
June 12, 2025


In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Prince clarified that they will
build a home for the Dansies’ son on the lot directly behind the existing home, with four
additional lots to the west. The existing home will not be part of the new subdivision. He
then discussed fencing and indicated that the property owners to the west prefer that their
vinyl fencing remain, while Mrs. Dansie has indicated that she would prefer masonry
fencing on the eastern property line.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Anna Davis lives west of the subject property. She previously lived on a 0.50-acre lot and
everyone in the subdivision utilized their full lots. She now lives on a 0.33-acre lot. She
wanted to ensure that the lots were not smaller because it could lower her property values
and increase traffic.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich clarified that the
letter received from Liz Dansie was not relevant to the rezone request as it pertained to
fencing. Commissioner Rushton stated that he believes the property is an example of a
good infill project and is in line with properties to the north and east. He agreed with
Commissioner Cannon that large lots are rarely fully utilized.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, it was clarified that the private
lane will be 25 feet. City Code does not restrict the maximum number of lots on a private
lane, but Fire Code restricts it to 30 without a second access. To encourage infill
development, the City Council amended City Code to allow the area of a private lane to
be included in the gross lot size. When the Subdivision Plat comes before the Planning
Commission, it will specify the net lot acreage because setbacks are determined by net,
not gross acreage.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich reported that a 0.33-acre lot is
approximately 14,000 square feet.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of application PLZ-25-4005, “Dansie 2025 Rezone,” by amending the General Plan
to include both parcels in the “Low-Density Residential” General Plan designation
and rezoning the two subject properties to R-3 (single-family residential, 14,0000-
square-foot minimum lot size.) Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     “MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 27”, PLZ-25-8004, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN
             FOR 41 RESIDENTIAL UNITS ON APPROXIMATELY 6.5 ACRES
             LOCATED NEAR 13800 SOUTH SENTINEL RIDGE IN THE SLR ZONE.
                                               RIVERTON     CITY,    UTAH

                                               ORDINANCE NO. 25- 20


       AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE GENERAL PLAN TO LOW DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL AND REZONING APPROXIMATELY                                    2. 32- ACRES TO THE R-3 ZONE
 FOR PROPERTY LOCATED NEAR 3100 WEST 13400 SOUTH. APPLICANT- ALAN
                                               PRINCE OF MP& G LLC.


      WHEREAS, the Riverton City Planning Commission has received public input and
made A recommendation regarding the above listed General Plan and zoning amendment; and,

        WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing to consider said amendment;
and,


        WHEREAS, the Riverton City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
public to amend the General Plan designation to Low Density Residential and the Riverton City
Zoning Map from to R- 3 for the approximately 2. 32 acre parcels located at approximately 3100
West 13400 South.


        NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Riverton City, Utah
as follows:
                   Section        1.             The Riverton City General Plan and Zoning Map shall be,
                                                 and hereby is, amended to reflect the described changes as
                                                 shown in Exhibit " A"


                   Section 2.                    This ordinance shall take effect upon passage.

        PASSED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Riverton, Utah, on this 15th day of
July, 2025 by the following vote:

                                                        YES     NO
        Councilmember Tish Buroker

        Councilmember Tawnee McCay
        Councilmember Troy McDougal
        Councilmember Andy Pierucci
        Council ,     Spencer Haymond
                             w*
                                       C

                                                        RIVERTON         CITY
                                           i
          lily

                        y   A *
ATTES
              s *** *   947##*#*
                                                        TrRifi, Staggs, Mayor
                    Of UTA



       Larsen,      Recorder
Amend the General Plan designation to Low Density Residential and the Riverton City Zoning Map from
to R- 3 for the approximately 2. 32 acre parcels located at approximately 3100 West 13400 South, bearing
Parcel ID#' s 27- 33- 351- 004 & 27- 33- 351- 050 as shown below.




                                                      2
                                   CERTIFICATE       OF POSTING




       I, Jamie Larsen, the duly appointed and acting Recorder for Riverton City hereby

Certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 25- 20 was adopted by the Riverton City Council on the

15th day of July 2025 and that after its passage copies were posted at the following locations:
       1.    City Hall

       2. Public Notice Website




       Dated this 15th day of July 2025.




                                            Jae Larsen, Recorder


            N***
                   79Q7 ****   J
                   Op UTAH




                                                 3
