                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            March 26, 2026
Subject:         PLZ-26-2014, “The Muscle Bus”, a Conditional Use Home Occupation for a
                 mobile physical fitness training service to be located at 1876 West 13400
                 South. Applicant – Tanner Mertlich


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-26-2014, “The Muscle Bus,” a home
occupation at 1876 West 13400 South with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. Business trailer must be parked behind the gate in the side or rear yard or in a garage.
    6. Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the detached garage space for business
       activities.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “The Muscle Bus,” located
at 1876 West 13400 South. The property is .82-acre and is zoned RR-22, as are surrounding
properties. The house is a rambler with approximately 2470-sf. The property has an elliptical
driveway on the south side of the house and an extra-wide driveway that continues along the
south-east side of the house to a detached garage for parking.
The applicant, Tanner Mertlich, is purchasing this home contingent upon being able to run his
business, “The Muscle Bus.” At present, the proposed home occupation meets all code
requirements and could be approved administratively, but Mr. Mertlich hopes to build a detached
garage in the rear northeast corner of the property and park his business trailer inside. He is
requesting approval from the Planning Commission for a home occupation that will use space in
a proposed accessory building.
Mr. Mertlich states that his business is mostly mobile. He is a personal fitness trainer whose
 Report by: LH
business activities are conducted at customers’ homes, using his gym equipment inside an
enclosed 14-foot trailer. He has no additional employees, business vehicles, or deliveries and
anticipates few customers coming to the home. Until the garage is built, he will store his trailer in
his rear yard, screened behind a gate. The new garage would be split 50/50 between business
and personal use and he hopes to have it completed by the end of the summer.
This application comes before the Planning Commission because the applicant proposes to use
space in his garage for business purposes. The Home Occupation Code states that a proposal to
use outdoor or garage space for business use requires a conditional use permit and approval of
the Planning Commission.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
that 50% of the garage space may be used for the business and that trailer be parked behind a
gate in the side or rear yard or in a garage.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
 Report by: LH
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an exception
         through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home
         occupations.




 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Application
          2.     Site Plan
          3.     Aerial View
          4.     Street View
          5.     Picture of Trailer
 Report by: LH
         6. Public Notice including Area Map




Report by: LH
             FENCE                                                FENCE                              FENCE


                                             PROPOSED PRIV CY W LL L NDSC PING
FENCE




                                                                           PROPOSED
         PROPOSED PRIV CY W LL L NDSC PING




                                                                                                     Personal Use
                                                                         G R GE/SHOP




                                                                                                                    FENCE
                                                                                       B siness se
FENCE




                                                                                                D
 FENCE




                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                    FENCE
                                                                                       GATE




                                                                                                                    FENCE




                                                           13400 s
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, March 26, 2026, beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Hall located at 12830 S. Redwood Road to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Tanner Mertlich is requesting a conditional use for a home occupation “The Muscle Bus,” located at
1876 West 13400 South. The applicant describes his business as a mobile gym and fitness service.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
