                              MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           October 12, 2023
Subject:        Adopting Section 6.05.425, Feeding Wild Birds/Fowl, regulating the feeding of
                wild birds/fowl within Riverton City, Ordinance proposed by Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
   I move the Planning Commission recommend adoption of Section 6.05.425, Feeding Wild
   Birds/Fowl, as described herein.

Background

The Riverton City Council has directed staff to prepare a proposed amendment to Section 6.05,
Animal Control, which would prohibit feeding of wild birds or fowl, such as pigeons or ducks by
placing or scattering feed on the ground. The ordinance would allow for bird feeders, provided such
feeders were placed a minimum of five (5) feet off the ground, and located behind the front plane of
a home. The proposed language includes standards for maximum feeder size, which allows for
standard residential bird feeders. The proposed language reads:

     It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or distribute feed of any kind intended
     for or attracting to wild birds or fowl on the ground or other surface, or in feeders or other
     receptacles or structures placed on the ground or other surface. Feed intended for or
     attracting to wild birds or fowl may be placed in feeders located a minimum of five (5) feet off
     the ground, and such feeders must be located on private property behind the rear plane of
     the home and a minimum of ten (10) feet from a property line. Feeder capacity may not
     exceed 300 cubic inches. This language shall not be construed to prohibit feeding of legally
     maintained chickens, ducks, or other fowl where allowed by zoning.

Staff is recommending adoption of the code, with any recommended additions or corrections.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Proposed Section 6.05.425




Report by: JL
10/9/2023
     6.05.425 Feeding Wild Birds / Fowl

     It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, or distribute feed of any
     kind intended for or attracting to wild birds or fowl on the ground or other
     surface, or in feeders or other receptacles or structures placed on the ground
     or other surface. Feed intended for or attracting to wild birds or fowl may be
     placed in feeders located a minimum of five (5) feet off the ground, and such
     feeders must be located on private property behind the rear plane of the home
     and a minimum of ten (10) feet from a property line. Feeder capacity may not
     exceed 300 cubic inches. This language shall not be construed to prohibit
     feeding of legally maintained chickens, ducks, or other fowl where allowed by
     zoning.




Report by: JL
10/9/2023
