                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 27, 2024
Subject:         PLZ-24-8007, Delton Bowling Amended Site Plan, for exterior lighting
                 modifications to the site plan of an existing commercial building located at 3693
                 West Meadow Spring Lane. Applicant- Mark Orr


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions

I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-8007 “Delton Bowling,” amending the site
plan of the existing commercial building located at 3693 West Meadow Spring Lane with the
following conditions:

    1. Lighting modifications will be harmonious with the existing building and match the
       submitted plans presented to the Commission.

    2. Accent lighting on the east side of the building, which is visible to residential properties,
       must be turned off by 10 pm nightly.

    3. The lighting shall comply with all applicable terms of Riverton City Code Section
       18.135.300, Commercial Lighting.



Background

Delton Bowling is located in an existing building on the second lot east of the intersection of
Creek Meadow Road and Meadow Spring Lane, at approximately 3700 West and 12500 South.
The existing building was built in 2014 and sits on a 3-acre parcel (Lot 5) in the Spring Creek
Commercial Subdivision. The property is owned by Mark Orr. The property is zoned C-R
(Regional Commercial) as are adjoining properties.

The existing building has a footprint of about 30,800-sf. The applicant proposes adding exterior
modifications which incorporate accent lighting around the top of the building. The east side of
the building is visible to residential areas.


Report by: TJP
6/25/2024
Exterior Lighting Code

Delton Bowling’s approved site plan did not include accent lighting around the top of the
building, so they must apply for an amended site plan. Riverton City’s exterior commercial
lighting requirements were recently amended by City Council.

Site Plan Development Standards: 18.215.030(d)
General Regulations: 18.135.200 Commercial Lighting

    1. Unless specifically exempted by this section, all outdoor commercial lighting shall
       include fully shielded fixtures and shall be installed so light is directed downward with no
       direct light emitted above a horizontal plane extending out from the bottom of any light
       fixture. Lighting must not be placed at a location, angle, or height that makes the lighting
       source visible outside the property boundaries where the light fixtures are located.

    2. In order to qualify as a "fully shielded" fixture, a light fixture must meet all of the criteria
       below:
           a. The top and sides must be made of completely opaque material, such that light
              only escapes through the bottom of the fixture. Fixtures with translucent or
              transparent sides, or sides with perforations or slits, do not qualify as fully
              shielded. The light source must be entirely contained inside the opaque sides of
              the fixture housing.
           b. If mounted on or attached to a building or structure other than a parking lot light
              pole or a sign, the bottom of the light source (including all lenses, diffusers,
              reflectors, or similar elements) must be at least two inches higher than the
              bottom of the fixture housing.
           c. Surrounding structures such as eave overhangs, canopies, or patio covers are
              not to be considered in determining if a fixture is a fully shielded fixture. The
              fixture must be a fully shielded fixture in and of itself.
           d. If mounted on or attached to a building or structure other than a parking lot light
              pole, the light source of a fixture must not be visible from any point not on the
              property where the fixture is located.
           e. Exceptions as noted in Section 4 below.

    3. Outdoor Commercial Building Lighting Adjacent to Residential Properties
          a. Except as noted in Section 4 below, exterior lighting the building side facing or
             oriented towards residential property on commercial structures within 100 feet of
             residential property shall be turned off at 11:00 pm or the close of business,
             whichever is earlier.

    4. Exceptions to Sections 2 and 3:
          a. A fixture that has a total light output less than 1,000 lumens provided the fixture
              has sides that completely cover the light source and are made of opaque or semi
              opaque material. Completely transparent materials, such as clear glass, are not
              allowed. The light source must not be visible from any point outside the property
              on which the fixture is located.
          b. Lighting for security purposes, provided:

Report by: TJP
6/25/2024
                          i. The lighting is placed and directed such that no direct illumination falls
                              outside the property boundaries where the security lighting is placed, or
                         ii. The lighting is activated by motion sensors and does not stay on for more
                              than 10 (ten) minutes at a time, or
                        iii. As approved during Commercial Site Plan approval.
                 c. Public Event Spaces lighting: Riverton City sponsored public events may use
                    outdoor illumination as necessary to light the event space(s) and for the safety of
                    the public. Lighting as necessary for public events may be also utilized for before
                    and after the event for staging, preparation, rehearsals, clean-up, etc.
                    Reasonable efforts will be made to mitigate impacts to surrounding areas.
                 d. Parking Lot Pole Lighting: Lighting specific to illuminating a parking area and
                    mounted on a pole shall meet the requirements for shielding as described in
                    Sections 2.a, b, and c above, and shall make reasonable efforts to minimize
                    visibility of the light source from adjacent properties.

    5. Specialized Outdoor Lighting
          a. Gas station canopies: Gas station canopies may be illuminated provided all light
              fixtures are mounted on the undersurface of the canopy and all light fixtures are
              fully shielded. Except for directed beam lighting, merely placing the fixtures on
              the underside of the canopy does not qualify as fully shielding the light fixture.
              Directed beam lighting mounted under the canopy is allowed, provided the light
              source cannot be seen from outside the property boundaries.
          b. Lighting of Flags: U.S. Code states that: “It is the universal custom to display the
              flag only from sunrise to sunset on buildings and flagstaffs in the open. However,
              when a patriotic effect is desired, the flag may be displayed twenty-four hours a
              day if properly illuminated during the hours of darkness.” The lighting of Federal
              or State flags shall be permitted provided that the light is a narrow beam spotlight
              rather than a floodlight, with the beam directed away from any public right-of-way
              and as feasible from adjacent residential properties.
          c. Commercial Holiday Lighting:
                    i. Commercial Holiday Lighting is defined as exterior lighting consisting of
                       temporary or permanent strings, strips, clusters, or groups of individual
                       lamps or bulbs, where the output per lamp or bulb is not greater than
                       fifteen (15) lumens.
                   ii. Commercial holiday lighting is a permitted use in all commercial zones,
                       but may only be permanently installed if approved as part of a
                       Commercial Site Plan. Commercial holiday lighting, either temporary or
                       permanently installed, may be displayed from November 15 to January
                       15, and as noted below, provided such lighting does not create a hazard
                       or nuisance. Holiday lighting shall be turned off by eleven o'clock (11:00)
                       P.M. or the close of business, whichever is earlier, and shall not be kept
                       on for more than 12 hours in a 24 hour period.
                  iii. For commercial structures within 100 feet of residential property, flashing
                       (blinking more than once per second) holiday lights and/or holiday lighting
                       systems which move or are programed to simulate movement are
                       prohibited, and holiday lighting oriented towards or directly visible from
                       the adjacent residential property shall be turned off by 10:00 P.M.


Report by: TJP
6/25/2024
                 iv. Holiday lighting may also be displayed for three days prior to and up to
                     one day following the observed date for the following holidays:
                         1. Valentines Day
                         2. St. Patrick’s Day
                         3. Easter
                         4. Independence Day
                         5. Pioneer Day
                         6. Halloween Day
                         7. Other dates as specifically approved or directed by the City.
                  v. Display of holiday lighting outside of the dates indicated herein is only
                     allowed where lighting is approved as part of a Commercial Site Plan.


Planning staff have reviewed these site amendment plans prior to this presentation. Staff is
recommending approval of the amended site plan with the condition that the accent lighting on
the east side, visible to residential property, be turned off by 10 pm nightly.


Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Application
        2. Public Notice Mailer
        3. Site Pictures




Report by: TJP
6/25/2024
                                                      NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                              The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                              on Thursday, June 27, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                              City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Road to take
                                              public comment on the following application:
Mark Orr is requesting approval to amend a Commercial Site Plan for Delton Bowling, located at
3693 W. Meadow Spring Lane, by adding strip lighting around the top of the building.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                     HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public, and public comments will be taken in the meeting. The staff report will be available for public
review through the City website prior to the meeting. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes
will be available following the meeting. Public comments for this item may also be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov
or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning
Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php. This link will take you to the applicable
meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review by the Planning Commission. Staff
reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                 12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
