                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            January 8, 2026
Subject:         Ordinance Amendment 25-5009, Amending Riverton City Code Section
                 18.15.010, Agriculture Zone, Amendments to allow Kenneling, Proposed by Josh
                 Aune


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on
reasonably debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council
which has final decision authority for rezone applications.

Example Motions:

I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of amendments to the Riverton City
Code Title 18.15.010 to make Kenneling “Permitted” in the A-5 Agriculture Zones.

OR

I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of amendments to the Riverton City Code
Title 18.15.010, thus keeping current uses for agricultural zones.



Background

Mr. Josh Aune desires to earn supplemental income from breeding and kenneling dogs on his
agriculturally-zoned property, but such uses are currently prohibited by code. He proposes to
amend the Riverton City Code 18.15.010 (Agricultural Zones) to allow Dog Breeding and
Kenneling in the A-5, A-10, and A-20 zones. The proposed change would replace the NP (Not
Permitted) in the Table of Uses with P (permitted) in these zones.




Report by: TJP
1/6/2026
Code Amendment

Current Text
18.15.010 Agriculture zone.
(1) Purpose. To promote and preserve, in appropriate areas, conditions favorable to agriculture
and greenbelt open spaces. Such districts are intended to include activities normally and
necessarily related to the conduct of agricultural production and to provide protection from the
intrusion of uses inimical to the continuance of agricultural activity.




Proposed Text
Mr. Aune’s proposed ordinance amendment would change the NP (Not Permitted) for the
“Kennel” Use to P (Permitted).


                                                                P




Public Notices and Response
Zone Text Changes are noticed on the City and State webpages, but mailers are not sent because
the request impacts the city code and is not limited to a specific property.

When considering Zone Text Change applications, the Planning Commission makes a
recommendation to City Council. The City Council will make a final decision on this application
Report by: TJP
1/6/2026
in a future City Council Meeting where the public can attend and comment.

Discussion
Household pets are allowed in all residential zones and agriculture zones. In residential zones
the maximum is set at three (3), in the Agriculture zone the maximum is set at four (4) household
pets.

18.05.030 Definitions:

“Household Pets”
means an animal or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house, and kept for company or pleasure,
such as dogs, cats, canaries, but not including a sufficient number of animals to constitute a
kennel as defined in this title.

"Kennel"
means the keeping of three or more dogs or cats six months old.


In the Table of Commercial Uses, there is not a category for “Kennels”, but there are categories
for “Pet Boarding” with or without veterinary clinics.




Attachments
The following items are attached:

    1. Zone Text Change Application.
    2. Riverton City Code, Chapter 18.15 Agriculture Zones.
    3. Clip of Zoning Map showing A-5 Areas.




Report by: TJP
1/6/2026
                   A-5 Zone




                    A-5 Zone


rivertonutah.gov
