                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 22, 2023
Subject:         PLZ-23-2022 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Variety Vending,” at
                 4142 West Red Tail Drive. Applicant-Karen Christensen.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2022 “Variety Vending”, at 4142 West
Red Tail Drive with the following conditions:

   1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
      Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
      (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
   2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
   3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
   4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
      and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
   5. The Home Occupation may use up to 50% of the floor space of the garage and workshop
      for business-related storage.
   6. The business may have two (2) full-time equivalent employees work at the home.
      Employees must use off-street parking.
   7. Business activities may take place only between 7 am and 7 pm.
Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “Variety Vending” at 4142
West Red Tail Drive. The property is a 0.5-acre lot in Deer Mountain Estates in the southwestern
quadrant of the city, currently zoned RR-22.
The home is a two-story with about 2,160-sf above grade with a basement. The attached
garage is 3-car with about 850-sf. In the rear yard there is a detached garage-apartment-
workshop of about 3580-sf. The area used for the business in that detached garage is
approximately 865-sf. The property has a drive approach on the south side of the home, and the
drive continues north to the detached garage and a parking area where employees can park.
Ms. Christensen provides vending services, and refills pre-packaged snack foods and drinks.
She and her husband have operated the business under a simple business license for many
years. When the license was in the renewal process this year, it was flagged as needing a
conditional use permit. The responses that triggered a conditional use permit also require this
 Report by: LH
application to be heard by the Planning Commission. Applicant is using a detached outdoor
building for the business and has 2 employees that come to the property and work in the garage.
Her business vehicles are a pickup truck with a cargo trailer that will be parked off-street in the
detached garage.



Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval for the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
specifying that approval only allows two (2) non-resident employees, and only 50% of the garage
and workshop can be used for the home occupations.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
18.190.060 Fixed standards.
(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed, volunteer,
or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located. And only one nonresident
employee may work at the home at one time regardless of the number of home occupations.

      (a) The planning commission may grant an exception to this requirement and allow additional
      employees working at the home with a conditional use permit if the applicant can demonstrate
      they meet the following qualifications:

             (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and business-
             related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.

             (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the residential integrity of
             the property and shall not displace any required front yard landscaping.

             (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted amounts as
             specified in this title.

             (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.

             (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars, pick-up trucks, vans
             and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction equipment, and other heavy equipment
             shall not be permitted to be brought to the home by employees.

             (vi) That any increase in the number of employees does not result in an increase of
             customers visiting the property that would exceed allotted customers per day as specified by
             this title.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage on vehicles parked
             at the home.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
(3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

      (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
      attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation
      and, if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

      (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
      detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant
      an exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

(8) Food or Beverage Preparation. Any home occupation involving or proposing to involve food or
drink preparation, storage or catering.


 Report by: LH
The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map
          2.     Application
          3.     Site Plan
          4.     Aerial View
          5.     Street View




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, June 22, 2023 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Karen Christensen is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Variety Vending”, a vending
services company to be based at 4142 West Red Tail Drive. She is requesting permission to use the
detached garage for business storage purposes and to park one truck and trailer inside the
detached garage.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
