                                MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             April 13, 2023
Subject:          PLZ-23-2014 Conditional Use, “Funaro Private Lane”, to be located at
                  1794 West Myers Lane (11800 South). Applicant- Peter Funaro


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2014 “Funaro Private Lane”, to be
located at 1794 West Myers Lane (11800 South) with the following conditions:

      1.   Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      2.   Approval is for a private lane with one lot accessing the private lane.
      3.   Private lane shall be at least 20-ft wide drivable surface.
      4.   Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the standards of
           the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      5.   The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the standards of
           the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      6.   The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and emergency response.
      7.   The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall conform to
           Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not limited to width, number of
           driveways and separation distance between driveways.
      8.   The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval from the Planning Commission prior to
           any construction commencing on the private lane.


 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for permission to create a private lane to access a
future lot at 1794 West Myers Lane (11800 South). The subject parcel is .5 acres and was recently
rezoned to R-4 (minimum lot size 10,000 sf) so that it could be subdivided. The Planning
Commission recommended approval of the Funaro rezone request on 10-13-22, and City Council
subsequently gave final approval to change from RR-22 to R-4 zoning. Neighboring parcels are a
mix of R-3, R-4, and RR-22.

This lot has 125 feet of frontage onto 11800 South on the south side of the lot. It is currently 178-
feet deep. The applicant proposes to run a 20-foot wide private lane from the southeast corner of
the lot 98-feet north to the lot that will be created. This will result in two buildable lots, the south lot
 Report by: TJP
will keep the existing house. The south lot would continue to access 11800 South and the new lot
would access the private lane. A subdivision application would be required before any
construction on the lane begins, and any new lot will ultimately be reviewed by the Planning
Commission.

City Code states the first preference is for development to use public streets but recognizes public
streets may be “impossible or impractical”, on some properties. Staff believes this property
should be considered for a private lane for several reasons including:

    •    There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master Transportation Plan.
    •    No local streets are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property.
    •    A private lane would not affect access by neighboring properties.
    •    There is already an existing drive approach on this lot to 11800 South in the area of the
         proposed private lane.

City Code further states that private lanes serving 1 to 2 lots must have 20 feet of paved surface
width and have an approved fire turnaround.

Recommendations
Staff believes this meets the criteria for a private lane and is therefore recommending approval
with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
           2.     Application.
           3.     Site Plan.
           4.     PC Minutes 10-13-22 – Funaro Rezone




 Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
     1- Does this property qualify for a private lane?
     2- What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
           (Such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length).

 18.35.070 Lots located on private lanes.
 (1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
 residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
 impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
 land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
 approved by the planning commission.

 Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least two
 of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):
           (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
           public street; or

           (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided with
           public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of any
           adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

           (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as required
           by the master transportation plan.

 Additionally, a private lane is subject to these requirements

 (2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
 properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
 with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
 methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
 portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
 subsequently:
        (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.
        (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.
        (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
        meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.
        (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
        additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city up
        to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
        determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (3) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.

 (4) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
 based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
 on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

 (5) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
 Report by: TJP
required by city officials or workers.

(6) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
streets shall apply to all buildings and usesadjoining private
rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required
private lane width. No portion of the private lane may be
counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual
lots. On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is
occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private lane area
may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see
Figure 1).


(7) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.

(8) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.

(9) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(10) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(11) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(12) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(13) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.


Fire Requirements for Private Lanes

                 Drivable Lane Width                                         Parking Rules
                      20-26 feet                                        No Parking both sides.
                      26-32 feet                                        No Parkin on one side.
                   32 feet and over                                  Parking allowed on both sides.




Report by: TJP
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                 The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                 on Thursday, April 13, 2023 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                 City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
comment on the following application:
Peter Funaro is seeking approval for a private lane, to be located at 1794 West Myers Lane,
Riverton, Utah.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
       A.     REZONE – "FUNARO REZONE," PLZ-22-4009, A ZONING CHANGE IS
              SOUGHT FOR .5 ACRE LOCATED AT 1794 WEST 11800 SOUTH,
              CURRENTLY ZONED AS RR-22 AND REQUESTING CHANGE TO
              R-4. APPLICANT - PETER FUNARO.

City Planner, Lisa Halversen, presented the Staff Report and stated that the property is a
one-half-acre residential lot in the northeast quadrant of the City. Peter Funaro was
identified as the property owner and is requesting the current RR-22 zoning be changed
to R-4. Notices were sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property
and no public comments were received. Ms. Halversen reported that while all properties
in the area are zoned RR-22, the subject property is the only one that is a one-half acre.
The other lots in the area range between 0.3 to 0.4-acre in size. There is one lot directly
north that is 1.4-acre. Mr. Funaro would like to change the zoning to R-4, which would
allow him to create two 11,000-square-foot lots. There are currently two access points
from the lot onto 11800 South, so there is the potential for a private lane.

Ms. Halversen presented the zoning map and commented that the lots across 11800
South are zoned R-4, which is compatible. The current lot has 125 square feet of frontage
on 11800 South. The minimum required for R-4 zoning is 80 feet. The RR-22 zone has
animal rights if the property is one-half acre or larger. Currently, the subject property has
animal rights, but they are not utilized. Because the surrounding properties are not a full
one-half acre, they do not have animal rights. Therefore, changing the zoning to R-4
would not have a significant impact on the animal rights issue.

There are implications for the General Plan as it has called out this area as Estate Density
Residential. However, the minimum square footage is 21,000 square feet and none of
the lots in the area are that large except the one to the north and the subject property.
The minimum square footage for the R-4 Zone is 10,000 square feet. Ms. Halverson
presented a chart showing that with Estate Density, the R-1 and RR-22 zones are the
only zones that would apply. However, an R-4 zone would allow several other zoning
options.

There is currently a small home on the southwest corner of the subject property that would
remain. The applicant proposed a private lane on the east side of the lot that would allow
for the 125-foot frontage. Each lot would be slightly larger than 11,000 square feet.
Ms. Halversen presented the zoning changes and qualifications that need to be met. A
councilmember on the City Council has indicated that it might be worth revisiting the area
in the General Plan to potentially revise it. If the Commission felt that the qualifications
had been met, Staff recommended approval of the rezone.

Commissioner Park referenced the adjoining lots and asked for clarification as to whether
they were too small to be subdivided. Ms. Halversen verified that that was the case unless
property owners combine their lots.

Commissioner Park asked if they would be moving the east access to the property. It
was also noted that the site plan would not have to be approved at tonight’s meeting.
Commissioner Gilchrist commented that as part of the R-4 zoning requirements for flag
lots, the access is not allowed to be counted as part of the buildable lot size. That being
the case, it did not appear that there would be 10,000 square feet remaining. Ms.
Halversen understood that the private lane square footage was not part of the 11,000
square feet. Mr. Prestwich stated that it could be worked out as part of the Conditional
Use Application once the zoning is in place because they could use an easement. The
discussion continued regarding the setback requirements in relation to the overall
dimensions.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the adjacent lots have animal rights. Mr. Prestwich
responded that the owners would have had to have kept animals continuously since about
1968 when the new zoning code was adopted to still have animal rights. After having
dealt with the residents in recent years, none of the surrounding properties have
maintained animals.

It was confirmed that fencing would be considered at a later date. A question was raised
about the access to 11800 South and if it is a City road or if the Utah Department of
Transportation (“UDOT”) would have to be involved. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that it is a
City road.

The applicant, Ally Funaro stated that one interesting thing about her lot is that there is a
strip of land to the north with a fence that has been used by the applicant for many years.
She thought that perhaps there would be consideration to include that acreage with her
property. She would be interested in knowing what it would take to legally own that portion
and make it part of the overall square footage of the property. She preferred to keep the
lane access where it is currently but was willing to move it if necessary.

Commissioner Park asked if they had met with a Land Use Attorney regarding the extra
square footage and their plans to subdivide. His concern was that the applicant was
requesting a rezone and they may not be able to configure an additional lot with the
setback requirements. Ms. Funaro stated that they have not met with an attorney at this
point. They submitted the application as the first step in an effort toward subdividing.

Commissioner Park stated that with the City Council indicating that the area needs to be
re-examined, what is proposed may align with what the applicant is proposing.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the applicant lives in the home currently. She confirmed
that she does. She indicated that the additional lot will be sold. Commissioner Rushton
commented that sometimes property lines can be contentious. He was hesitant to
recommend a rezone without assurance that the lot is the actual size stated.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked for clarification of the “extra” property described by the
applicant and whether it was part of the calculations submitted with the application.
Ms. Funaro stated that the additional strip is not part of the one-half-acre square footage.
It would add an additional 0.05-acre to the existing lot size.
Commissioner Gilchrist stated that talking to the owner of the property and asking to
purchase it would be the easiest way to address the issue.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Gilchrist inquired about the mention of a member of the City Council that
discussed revisiting the General Plan and changing the Estate Density Residential Zone.
He stated that rezoning the subject parcel to R-4 does not seem like a good idea in the
big picture. If the City Council wants to reevaluate the General Plan, he wondered if it
would be detrimental to rezone this parcel to R-4, not knowing what the City Council wants
to do. Mr. Prestwich stated that this is a legislative action item, so in essence, the
Planning Commission is offering an opinion to the City Council. The motion can simply
recommend the application. The City Council would have the ultimate decision.

Chair Cluff asked what zoning would apply to the neighboring lots that are not a full one-
half acre in size. Mr. Prestwich stated that most of them will only qualify for R-4 zoning.

Commissioner Rushton commented that the Planning Commission is not the Land Use
Authority. He did not feel that the Planning Commission should deprive a private property
owner of the right to reasonably develop his or her property. Trying to anticipate what the
City Council is going to do in the future is a slippery slope for the Commission.

Commissioner Park stated that the owners are allowed to develop their property within
the zoning currently established ordinance. Asking for a parcel-specific rezone is not the
same as ‘reasonably developing’ their parcel. Discussion continued regarding what
would be reasonable development.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the Commission were to approve this parcel as R-4 if the
City Council could decide to change the zoning of the surrounding area to R-4 in the
General Plan. Mr. Prestwich stated that it would need to be noticed but the City Council
could request that action be taken.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-22-4009, Funaro General Plan Amendment, and
Rezone for 0.5 acres at 1794 West 11800 South proposed Rezone to the R-4 zone.
Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner
Rushton-Aye; Commissioner Matheson-Aye; Chair Cluff-Aye; Commissioner
Gilchrist-Aye; Commissioner Breinholt-Aye; Commissioner Park-Nay. The motion
passed 5-to-1.
