                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               SEPTEMBER 28, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Jon Gilchrist, Chair                            Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Shelly Cluff
Evan Matheson
Monique Mortensen
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.    CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Jon Gilchrist called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Pledge was
led.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     LAKEWOOD     PROPERTY    MAINTENANCE,      PLZ-23-2026, AN
             APPLICATION FOR A HOME OCCUPATION PROVIDING LANDSCAPING
             SERVICES TO BE LOCATED AT 1309 WEST 12295 SOUTH. APPLICANT
             – KYLE NALDER.

City Planner, Lisa Halversen, presented the Staff Report and stated that the City has
received several home occupation applications recently, several of which have been very
difficult. This is the easiest they have seen but some issues need to be considered. The
request involves a landscaping business, Lakewood Property Maintenance, located at 1309
West 12295 South. The applicant is Kyle Nalder. The property is 0.23 acres in size in the
northeast quadrant of the City. It has a 10,000-square-foot lot with 100 feet of footage on
12295 South. It is in an R-4 Zone.

Ms. Halversen shared images of the property from several years ago and compared it to
improvements that have been made since, including an attached garage. His landscaping
business has been operating for several years. Mr. Nalder does not anticipate employees
or customers coming to the property and there is space for off-street parking. The business
vehicles listed include a 16-foot cargo trailer, a 12-foot dump trailer, and a work truck. A
mailer was sent out and several public comments were received, which were included for
consideration.

Ms. Halversen shared an aerial view of the property, which has a 30 to 35-foot setback from
the street with plenty of space in the driveway. The west side includes a drive going through
to the backyard. Trees along the backyard provide screening. There is outdoor space in
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  2
September 28, 2023


use for Mr. Nalder’s business. Neighbors to the north and west have weighed in and
expressed concerns about noise and the backyard looking industrial rather than residential.
She stated that the neighbors may have been under the impression that the use would be
more intensive than it has been. The business has been operating for years and the intensity
of the use was not expected to change. The Planning Commission serves as the land use
authority for Home Occupations. City Staff felt that the application should be reviewed and
discussed as there has been some public clamor from a couple of neighbors about the fairly
intense use with that number of business vehicles.

Ms. Halversen brought up some of the issues City Staff considered regarding the application.
She did a drive-by of the property and stated that there were no vehicles parked on the street
and nothing was contrary to what was submitted in the application. What she witnessed
agreed with the information in the application. The business was found to comply with the
conditions restricting operations to enclosed spaces in the side and rear yards.

Ms. Halversen pointed out that the noise issue was an issue for the Commission to discuss
and did not think there would be an issue with excessive traffic or other nuisances. Images
were provided by the applicant of Mr. Nalder’s work equipment. In the back is a 12-foot
dump trailer, which remains parked in the far west corner of the lot. The second trailer
remains hooked up to his work truck during the week for convenience. Some trees provide
screening. It was noted that some neighbors have indicated that they can still see the work
equipment.

Mr. Nalder provided three parking plans to address all conditions. This is a Conditional Use
application, and the Planning Commission can apply any conditions that they choose.
Option 1 addresses how vehicles will be parked during the winter months. The dump trailer
will be parked in the far back corner, the cargo trailer behind the gate, and the truck in front
of the gate on the driveway. The truck has no logos or advertising on it and can remain
unscreened on the driveway.

Option 2 was intended if the Commission limits the approved work vehicles to the cargo
trailer only. The dump trailer would be kept off-site, the cargo trailer would remain parked
behind the gate, and the truck would be parked in the driveway. In this case, the dump
trailer would be left with Mr. Nalder’s business partner in Herriman where they store other
equipment including a skid steer. The applicant’s preferred option would be to keep the
dump trailer parked in the back and the cargo trailer and truck in front of the fence during
the week, which he would disconnect and move behind the gate on weekends and when he
is not working. The trailer contains logos and needs to be screened. There is shrubbery
between Mr. Nalder’s property and his neighbor to the west that provides screening for the
entire trailer.

Ms. Halversen shared images provided by neighbors showing their view of the dump trailer
in the backyard as well as the cargo trailer parked in front of the gate. She also presented
images from her drive-by demonstrating the screening provided by the shrubbery. Only the
front of the truck in the driveway is visible. Vehicles are pulled back from the sidewalk to not
look out of place.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                3
September 28, 2023



No comments were received from Mr. Nalder’s neighbor to the west but there was input
submitted from the two neighbors in the rear. Some neighbors voiced support including one
across the street and another further down the street. They spoke well of Mr. Nalder’s
business operations and indicated that he makes the neighborhood look nicer with his home
having been remodeled. Ms. Halverson pointed out from the aerial view that the two trailers
were screened from above.

The sample motion would approve Mr. Nalder’s full application. Ms. Halverson brought up
item 5, which regulates heavy equipment, and noted that the Commission has discretion to
reject the dump trailer as it falls under construction equipment or to deem the screening
provided by the shrubbery insufficient for the cargo trailer.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the impetus of this application. The City’s Code
Enforcement Officer has received no complaints about the business and Mr. Nalder is simply
trying to obtain the correct approval for his business. Commissioner Rushton pointed out
that Riverton City does not have any limits on the size of RV parking. As a result, Mr. Nalder
has a 14-foot-tall fifth-wheel trailer so there would be no questions raised about it.
Ms. Halversen confirmed that home occupations are limited to vehicles under 24 feet in
length. The City Attorney confirmed that the limit is per vehicle. Commissioner Rushton
asked if the Planning Commission has discretion regarding the screening requirement for
commercial vehicles.

There was discussion regarding the ordinance requirements for vehicles with or without
logos. There is an ordinance that restricts the use of any unscreened or unenclosed yard
space for home occupation activities including storage of equipment, and any screened area
for this purpose must be located in side or rear yards. There have been cases where trailers
have been required to be screened and cases where they have not.

There was discussion about how much weight to give to concerns about neighborhood
disruptions. This is less of a quantifiable determination, so it is up to the Commission’s
discretion. Commissioner Matheson weighed in about the issue of noise. He owns trailers
and knows that hitching his trailers does not generate significant noise. He expressed
sympathy for the neighbors behind the property who can see the trailers but noted that there
are many unkempt backyards in Riverton that look much worse.

Commissioner Park lives around the corner from the subject property and asked why this
application was being presented now as Mr. Nalder has been in business for some time and
has not received any complaints. Mr. Nalder introduced his business partner, Catlin Cage,
from Herriman. The business they co-own and operate began with lawn mowing but it
quickly escalated to trimming shrubs, felling trees, or fixing sprinklers. Eventually, they
purchased a dump trailer to haul materials to and from work sites. Mr. Nalder insisted they
do their best to stay on top of all licensing and recently procured a Contractor’s License.
When they tried to renew the license this year, they realized that the Scope of Work was
expanded to include more landscaping than just property maintenance. Commissioner Park
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 4
September 28, 2023


had noticed that the trailer was previously parked on the street. He imagined that they
became aware that that was not in compliance.

Commissioner Park asked about the skid steer that is currently parked in the driveway.
Mr. Nalder clarified that work is currently being done in his own yard, but the skid steer will
be removed the following morning. Commissioner Park asked about winter use and if the
business does snow plowing. Mr. Nalder confirmed that they do not, partially because they
do not have room to store salt trucks and related equipment and partially because they like
to snowboard. Their preference was to keep both trailers at the Riverton residence. They
have a total of two dump trailers, one of which remains at the Herriman residence with the
skid steer. There were public comments submitted about the noise caused by placing items
in the trailer. Mr. Nalder insisted that he was not aware that it was disruptive, and that he
would be more careful about how he places items in the trailer.

Commissioner Cluff brought up a neighbor’s comment about a loud boom when the dump
trailer is moved from the backyard to the front. Mr. Nalder stated that the dump trailer itself
is quiet as it lacks a motor. Any noise would come from placing items in it. He speculated
that that might be what the neighbor was referring to. He did not agree with the
characterization that this occurs a few times each day.

Commissioner Matheson asked about personal versus commercial use of the trailers. They
may be used for personal projects like moving furniture or branches but no materials from
job sites are taken to or stored at the property. The cargo trailer comes and goes daily on
weekdays, usually leaving in the morning and coming back at night. Commissioner
Matheson commented that that isn’t a lot of movement.

Chair Gilchrist asked if the activity in Mr. Nalder’s yard has increased as the business has
grown. Mr. Nalder reported that the dump trailer is used once or twice each week on a busy
week. The only additional equipment being stored on the site is PVC pipe. With winter
approaching, they are about to start blowing out sprinkler lines after which the equipment
will be stored for the next six months.

Commissioner Park asked if the noise identified by neighbors could be from the dump trailer
going over the curb and rattling or if widening the entryway and cutting the curb might help.
Mr. Nalder was amenable to the idea but noted that he is accurate at getting around the curb
since going off the curb is bad for the equipment. He also noted that now that he is aware
of the neighbors’ concerns, he will be more careful about noise when loading equipment as
he does not want to be a nuisance to the neighbors.

Commissioner Cannon asked Mr. Nalder to speculate about the future of his business as it
grows, how long he expects to remain at this location, and if he might be looking to expand
to a commercial property at some point. Mr. Nalder reported that the business is growing
faster than the two partners can keep up and they think about questions like this all the time.
They currently have no employees, and they often discuss next steps such as investing in
employees or acquiring equipment such as an excavator. Expansion beyond what they
currently have would likely require a commercial lot with an office. In response to a question
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
September 28, 2023


raised by Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Nalder estimated the current annual growth of the
business to be 10% to 20%.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing.

Bryce Isaacson gave his address as 12252 South Hill Circle, which is to the northwest of the
subject property. Mr. Isaacson purchased his home last year. He submitted a photo with
the dump trailer in the back and commented on the booming noise heard the previous day.
He noted that the noise may have come from throwing items in the trailer, opening the gate,
or going over the curb. He cited noise and the visible dump trailer as major issues. The
dump trailer is unsightly and makes it look junky and like the home is being renovated. He
stated that the yard is clean, and Mr. Nalder is a good neighbor, but the dump trailer is
unsightly and causes noise. He was in favor of Option 1, with the covered trailer in the back
behind the gate. His preference, however, was for the dump trailer to be relocated.

Lauren Major gave her address as 12252 South Hill Circle and echoed Mr. Isaacson’s
comments. Some of her noise concerns were alleviated during the meeting but it would be
nice not to have the dump trailer, which she does not like the look of. She congratulated the
applicant and noted that his yard looks very nice.

Chair Gilchrist asked Mrs. Major for more information about the noise issue. There haven’t
been any noise complaints to the City, and he wondered if there was an ongoing noise issue
or if they were referencing a single event. She clarified that she was more concerned about
potential future noise issues and was less concerned after the applicant’s presentation.
Chair Gilchrist allowed Mr. Isaacson to elaborate. He characterized noise as something that
occurs regularly. He stated that it was likely a coincidence that there was a loud boom the
previous day but there is noise when the trailer is moved in and out. Chair Gilchrist asked if
there are any properties with RVs, boats, or other trailers around as they are common. Mrs.
Major agreed that that comes with living in a neighborhood, but she preferred to limit noise
and maintain a residential feel to the extent possible.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Park expressed concerns about screening. A landscaping company,
ProLawn, operated across the street from his residence for many years with sufficient
screening. He did not believe the shrubbery provided sufficient screening and stated that it
could be cut down at any time. He recommended that the gate be brought forward, and the
fence redone to match Pro Lawn’s. He commented that ProLawn was never an issue
because everything was appropriately screened. He complimented the applicant’s work to
improve the property and turn it into something people are pleased to see in the
neighborhood. His suggestions, however, would make it look even better. The shrubs are
not on the applicant’s property, so the applicant is not providing nor can guarantee the
screening that currently exists.

Commissioner Cluff commented that when she looks at a Home Occupation application, she
compares it to a normal residence and considers whether the things being asked for could
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   6
September 28, 2023


be duplicated on a normal residence to maintain residential integrity. She considered the
cargo trailer to be very similar to other trailers in use for recreational purposes, however, the
dump trailer is more like a dumpster or storage container. Both are prohibited by the City
Code in residential areas. She was opposed to allowing the dump trailer on the property as
it exceeds the 30-gallon maximum capacity for garbage containers under City Code and
resembles moving containers that are only allowed for seven days. She was amenable to
the screening on the side of the home and found the shrubbery to be sufficient as long as it
remains. If removed, the applicant will have to provide screening. She was not concerned
about a gate in front of the cargo trailer but stated that the dump trailer being on the property
starts to impede residential integrity.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich restated Commissioner Cluff’s recommendation, which was that
the cargo trailer does not need to be behind a gate, but the dump trailer should not be stored
on the property. She confirmed that she does not care where the cargo trailer is placed but
the dump trailer should be off-site. Chair Gilchrist stated that there are trailers in common
recreational use to haul vehicles that aren’t significantly different from dump trailers. This
wouldn’t be an issue if it was for private use rather than commercial. Ms. Halversen pointed
out that it is subjective and what may be appropriate for a one-acre or half-acre lot might be
different. Every situation is unique and City Code provides flexibility.

Commissioner Rushton agreed with Commissioner Park that the Commission has been
consistent about requiring screening with these kinds of applications. He lauded the local
business for working and growing in the community and noted that if they are doing well,
they will eventually transition to a commercial space. He felt that the conditions should not
be determined on a case-by-case base, especially with no formal complaints having been
received. He affirmed that there are very large RVs around Riverton that are much more
unsightly than Mr. Nalder’s equipment. Commissioner Park felt it was unnecessary to
scrutinize equipment on a case-by-case basis that is not causing noise, odors, or other
nuisances. He asserted that there is a consistent precedent to require screening but
allowing business owners to operate on their property as long as it does not impact the
neighbors.

Commissioner Park felt they could do that without having to come back and revisit the issue
later if the shrubbery is removed by stating that any business-related equipment or vehicles
must be behind screening. That way, if the shrubbery is removed, the applicant will know
that he will be required to provide screening. He also noted that ProLawn has a nearly
identical dump trailer parked on the side of the house behind screening for two decades. It
was pointed out that there were a number of smell complaints received about ProLawn.
Commissioner Park felt that proper screening would resolve any issues. He agreed with
Commissioner Rushton. Even though the Isaacsons and Wilcoxes are his friends, he did
not feel that the City should dictate the types of trailers they can use.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ 23-2026
“Lakewood Property Maintenance”, at 1390 West 12295 South, with the following
conditions:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                        7
September 28, 2023


      1.    The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
            applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
            Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
            Codes.

      2.    The Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business
            License.

      3.    The Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other
            outside agency approvals.

      4.    The Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
            applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
            Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.    Business vehicles consist of one truck, one 16-foot trailer, and one dump
            trailer. Business vehicles must be screened.

      6.    No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m.
            or after 7:00 p.m.

Commissioner Mortensen seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Darren Park – Aye;
Evan Matheson – Aye; Troy Rushton – Aye; Jon Gilchrist – Aye; Monique Mortensen
– Aye; Gary Cannon – Aye; Shelly Cluff – Nay. The motion passed 6-to-1.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    Planning Commission Meetings Minutes for July 13, 2023.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Minutes
from the Planning Commission Meeting on July 13, 2023, as reported. Commissioner
Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

      B.    Planning Commission Meetings Minutes for August 10, 2023.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the
Minutes from the Planning Commission Meeting on August 10, 2023, as printed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
September 28, 2023


Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Park addressed the need to make a recommendation to the City Council to
amend the Accessory Structure Ordinance in City Code. Chair Gilchrist asked for more
information about the specific concern. There is a building under construction that is much
more akin to a commercial structure than a residential one with architectural features that
do not fit in with the neighborhood. Commissioner Park felt some changes could be made
to the ordinance to ensure moving forward that accessory buildings are more architecturally
and visually in line with other buildings on the property in a residential setting.

Commissioner Rushton noted that this is a public forum with an agenda set through input
from citizens. He was willing to address it if there was citizen concern to avoid a situation
like the chicken ordinance where a concern from an elected official went directly to the City
Staff and no citizens ever expressed any concern. Commissioner Park reported that he has
received phone calls about this issue. It has gone through Staff and has been seen by the
Council already. The building in question meets the current ordinance so the question is
whether the current ordinance is sufficient to maintain a residential feel in a residential
neighborhood. He asserted that a business shouldn’t take away from that residential feel,
and buildings are being constructed that are not in keeping with that.

Chair Gilchrist felt this was outside the scope of the Planning Commission. The City Council
serves as the land use authority. The Planning Commission is appointed to review based
on ordinances and determining whether the ordinances are appropriate is a matter for the
elected officials. The Planning Commission’s role as an advisory body to the City Council
was brought up.

Mr. Prestwich asserted that this discussion has gone as far as it can at the Planning
Commission without an application from a citizen requesting a change to the zoning text or
direction from the City Council to look at the matter and advise. He noted that there is now
a public record of the concerns that have been brought up and the City Council reads the
minutes. He suggested reaching out to them, however, without an application or direction
from the City Council, this matter will not be brought before the Planning Commission.

Chair Gilchrist asked if a text change would go through the Planning Commission prior to
reaching the City Council if a citizen submits an application. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
was the case. If the City Council asks Staff to review the ordinance, it would go to the
Planning Commission before being sent to the City Council for final approval. He felt this
discussion on the record was enough to inform the City Council of this concern. Citizens
can submit an application to request a zone text change.

Commissioner Rushton asked for confirmation that responding to citizens by suggesting
they attend the next City Council Meeting to bring up concerns would be good advice. This
would alert them to the specific concerns raised. The City Council could then direct Staff to
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               9
September 28, 2023


investigate the matter. They would be able to request a report from Staff to the City Council
before the item goes to the Planning Commission, but no ordinance change would occur
until it has gone through the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Cannon reported that he lives adjacent to that neighborhood and has
received calls from concerned friends and neighbors. He recalled that the City has control
over height, square footage, and making sure the exterior matches the primary dwelling.
Roof pitch and roof lines are not in the ordinance, and Commissioner Cannon expressed
interest in adding them.

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:35 p.m.
