                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                  JULY 11, 2024

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Evan Matheson                                   Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Monique Beck                                    Lisa Halverson, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Shelly Cluff
Crystal Keele

1.    CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Evan Matheson called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     "RUSH VALLEY GUNS," PLZ-24-2023, A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
             APPLICATION FOR A HOME OCCUPATION TO PURCHASE AND SELL
             FIREARMS ONLINE, LOCATED AT 2026 WEST 12190 SOUTH.
             APPLICANT – JEFFREY TURNER.

Planner Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report and stated that the application for Rush
Valley Guns, LLC was submitted by Jeffrey Turner who resides at 2026 West 12190 South.
The property is .25 acre in size and is Lot 305 in the Brookwood Phase 3 Subdivision. All
properties in the subdivision are zoned R-4. The house is split level with an attached two-
car garage with an extra-wide driveway to accommodate additional parking. The applicant
requested permission to purchase and sell firearms online with a Federal Firearms License
("FFL"). Ms. Halversen reported that she spoke with an agent at the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, and Firearms ("ATF"), which regulates FFLs. Because the subject property is in
close proximity to Rosamond Elementary School, the business will be subject to additional
federal regulations. The ATF agent indicated that the applicant will be made aware of the
additional conditions, which include leaving all weapons unloaded and additional shipping
restrictions. Notices were mailed to residents within 300 feet of the subject property, and
the City received no responses.

Ms. Halversen reported that because the applicant intends to use a portion of his garage for
the business, the City Code requires Planning Commission approval. The applicant plans
to use a small shed on the property and 50% of the garage space for his business. Mrs.
Turner also has a Conditional Use Home Occupation Permit for a cheesecake business but
business has slowed and it will likely close. Although City Code only requires Planning
Commission approval for more than two Home Occupation Permits in the same residence,
Staff believed the Commission would want to review the application. City Code indicates
that a maximum of 50% of garage floor space can be used for a home occupation. The
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   2
July 11, 2024


owner does not anticipate many customers at this time but wishes to obtain a license and
slowly build the business.

Ms. Halversen reviewed the recommended Conditions of Approval and reported that the
applicant was present to answer questions.

Chair Matheson commented that the ATF is extremely strict so the Planning Commission
need not worry about the weapons business. They simply need to decide if the Home
Occupation meets the code requirements. Ms. Halversen noted that the ATF agent she
spoke to lives in Herriman and is familiar with the local neighborhoods and regulations. He
notifies the City Police Department when a license is issued and they monitor licensed
firearms dealers in the City. The Commission's job is to approve or deny the Home
Occupation based on City Code. It was reiterated that the applicant will be required to meet
harsher restrictions than the City's to obtain an FFL.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter stated that the Planning Commission's responsibility is to
determine if the use will impact the community, and if so, determine whether mitigation is
needed. The application did not appear likely to engender a lot of traffic in the area.
Weapons will be part of the chain of commerce through this business but that is the ATF's
to regulate. The City should have a high degree of confidence in the ATF’s auditing and
regulating of home-based businesses with FFLs. They audit the business records regularly
to ensure that the weapons are being lawfully purchased.

The applicant, Jeff Turner reported that he intends to start a home-based online firearms
business where he will serve as an FFL. He initially planned to manufacture ammunition as
well, but that is prohibited by the Fire Code. He will be gun dealing and gunsmithing.

Commissioner Cannon thanked Mr. Turner and asked if he has already applied for his FFL.
Mr. Turner stated that he applied for the license in conjunction with his application to the City
but he had not heard back from the ATF. He was aware that there would be additional
limitations and restrictions but he did not know what they would entail. He agreed to comply
with any restrictions imposed by the ATF.

Commissioner Cluff asked if any noise is involved in gunsmithing. Mr. Turner stated that it
is done using tools and a workbench. No milling machinery or loud power tools will be used.

Chair Matheson asked about the notation on the application that powder will be stored.
Mr. Turner clarified that no powder will be stored as he no longer intends to manufacture
ammunition. The City and Fire Codes allow him to store a certain amount of powder for
personal use but he does not anticipate doing so.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              3
July 11, 2024


Commissioner Cluff moved to APPROVE PLZ-24-2023, Rush Valley Guns LLC, to be
located at 2026 West 12190 South, with the following conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
             applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
             Codes.

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
             agency approvals, including an FFL through the Bureau of Alcohol,
             Tobacco, and Firearms.

      4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.     No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 AM or
             after 7:00 PM.

      6.     Applicant may use up to 50% of the garage for business use.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Beck. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      B.     "ROPE MAKER (FUNARO) SUBDIVISION," PLZ-23-1007, AN
             APPLICATION FOR A TWO-LOT SUBDIVISION LOCATED AT 1794 WEST
             11800 SOUTH. APPLICANT – PETER FUNARO.

City Planner Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is the
culmination of many steps for the applicant, Peter Funaro. The Rope Maker Subdivision is
a two-lot subdivision being created from an existing lot near 11800 South and Redwood
Road. The existing home will remain. The City installed a second driveway on the property
around 2014 when improvements were made to 11800 South. There will be an additional
private lane to a second home at the rear of the property.

Mr. Prestwich provided background on the process, which began with a rezone request.
The parcel was previously zoned RR-22 and Mr. Funaro requested rezoning to R-4. In
November of 2022, the City Council approved the rezone request. The RR-22 zone requires
a minimum of one-half acre and is animal rights property. The R-4 zone requires 10,000-
square-foot lots and has no associated animal rights. Mr. Prestwich noted that that is
considered an incompatible use. Rezoning takes six to eight weeks and involves a public
Planning Commission hearing after which the Commission makes a recommendation to the
City Council who makes the final decision. Mr. Funaro next applied for a Conditional Use
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
July 11, 2024


for a private lane, which was approved by the Planning Commission on April 13, 2023. The
subdivision application was submitted soon after but the review process took some time.

Notice of the public hearing was sent to neighboring property owners and no comments
were received. Mr. Prestwich reported that the notice included in the meeting packet had
the incorrect date but it was verified that the correct date was sent to property owners and
the public hearing was properly noticed.

Mr. Prestwich presented the subdivision plat, which indicates that the existing home will
remain on Lot 1 and a private lane will provide access to Lot 2. The front lot is over 10,000
square feet in size. The rear lot includes the stem of the flag lot and meets the minimum lot
size requirement. Riverton City Code allows for a flag lot or an easement at the property
owner's discretion. Mr. Funaro chose a flag lot.

During the Planning Review process, Staff looks at both the subdivision plat and civil
infrastructure plans. This subdivision involves bringing in new utilities for the rear lot.
Throughout the Conditional Use process, they must also add improvements to the lane. The
lane meets Fire Code requirements and will have the required width and turnaround as well
as signage for no parking as it is not of adequate width. Utilities for the rear lot will be
adjacent to the private lane. There is also a detention area. Existing outbuildings will be
demolished prior to plat recordation.

Mr. Prestwich noted that the Planning Commission's responsibility for most of the
subdivision plat was to ensure that it complies with the City Code but they have more
discretion in regard to fencing. Staff recommended installation of a six-foot masonry fence
along the east and north property lines and that existing fencing be allowed to remain on the
west property line. The City Council previously made changes to the Fence Code Section
18.155.080 to specify that if there is a non-compatible zone, like in this case with R-22 versus
R-4, "A decorative masonry fence with a minimum height of six feet shall be required
between non-compatible zones. Both sides of the fence shall receive equal treatment with
respect to pattern, and color. Permitted masonry product types include precast concrete,
fiberglass/concrete mix, integrally colored and textured block, brick, or similar material.
Fencing core may be solid, hollow, or foam or similar material." In this case, the fence does
not need a solid center. Only fencing along major collector roads must have a solid center.

City Code provides rules on how an exception can be approved. Section 18.155.080(3)
states, "The Planning Commission may allow, via a Conditional Use Permit, existing fencing
to remain in place, or waive the fencing requirement for all or a portion of required perimeter
fencing on residential projects of two acres or less. A written, notarized acknowledgment
from each adjacent affected property owner stating their consent for the proposed fencing
is required as part of the Conditional Use Permit application. Fencing adjacent to major
roadways, as required herein or by approval, shall not be altered or amended by conditional
use." Mr. Prestwich reported that one neighbor gave consent but the north and east
neighbors will not speak to the property owner. Staff recommended that the existing fence
be allowed to remain and that the two required new fences be masonry. Standard
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  5
July 11, 2024


Conditions of Approval were recommended as well as additional Conditions as noted in the
Staff Report.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the Planning Commission was able to consider approving
alternative fencing without the neighbors' consent. Mr. Prestwich indicated that it is not
expressly forbidden by City Code but consent has been required for previous applications.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Prestwich noted that the parcel
directly to the north is still zoned RR-22 but the owner has been marketing it as having
residential multi-family and commercial probabilities. The area with the creek is zoned
commercial and several interested parties have asked if they can connect the parcels. Staff
has responded that they could submit a rezoning request to the Planning Commission and
City Council. Commissioner Cannon asked about possible issues if the property is rezoned
commercial. Mr. Prestwich stated that if the neighboring property is commercial a fence
would still be required. If the commercial property received site plan approval before Mr.
Funaro, the commercial site would have been required to install the fence but could also use
a hollow product like Rhinorock as a solid block fence would still not be required.

Mr. Prestwich noted that per City Code whether existing fencing can be retained is at the
Planning Commission’s discretion. It may be allowed or waived as a Conditional Use. There
have been cases where the Commission has allowed a vinyl fence. Staff had no issue with
retaining the existing fence on that side of the property.

Mr. Funaro reported that he tried to get permission to retain the existing fencing from the
neighbor to the north but the property is a rental and he has been unable to contact the
property owner. He has had difficulty with the neighbor to the east in the past and was also
unable to obtain their permission. He hoped the subdivision plat would be approved so they
could move forward. He noted that his engineering team was available to answer questions.

In response to a question from Commissioner Keele, Mr. Funaro indicated that his family
has not yet decided if they will keep or sell the property. The current home has two
bedrooms and one bathroom and they have four children. Commissioner Keele asked if
there would be parking restrictions included in the Private Lane Agreement. Mr. Funaro
stated that it is a fire lane and he or any future owner would need to understand the parking
restrictions. He stated that he would ensure that it is clear in any agreements. In response
to a question from Chair Matheson, Mr. Funaro confirmed that he occupies the existing
home.

Mr. Funaro remarked that it has been an expensive process but he works in construction
doing finish carpentry and understands the engineering and permitting processes. He hoped
to subdivide and build on the property in a way that makes sense for his family.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, it was clarified that the City has identified
a variety of zones that are not compatible with other zones. In this case, the zones are
incompatible due to the animal rights attached to the RR-22 zone that are not present in the
R-4 zone. Commissioner Cluff noted that the lot to the east is smaller than one-half acre
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
July 11, 2024


and asked if that affects the compatibility issue. Because of the difficulty interacting with
that neighbor, she suggested that not disrupting the existing fence could be a more peaceful
solution. It was noted that the City was also unable to reach an agreement with the owner
of that property when installing improvements on 11800 South. It was verified that the lot is
one-third acre in size and likely grandfathered into the zone. Regardless, it will not have
animal rights.

Mr. Funaro stated that they had had discussions regarding the best solution for the east
fence and whether it would be best to leave the existing fence or install a higher fence. His
preference was to keep the existing fencing. He wanted to avoid conflict with the neighbor
during the subdivision process but they have had issues in the past. It would be helpful if
the Planning Commission granted the Conditional Use to keep the existing five-foot wooden
fence.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the Code suggests that a notarized affidavit from the neighboring
property owner be presented to the Planning Commission and considered in their decision.
It would not, however, prohibit granting Conditional Use if an affidavit is lacking. The
evidence before the Commission is that the property is less than one-half acre in size and
therefore, does not have animal rights. The neighbor received notice of the meeting and the
applicant attempted to contact them directly. The Planning Commission could find that it
meets the requirements for a Conditional Use and a different type of fencing could be
allowed. Mr. Carter added that it was the neighbor's choice to not participate in the process.
There was evidence on the record pointing to approval of the Conditional Use and there was
no evidence to the contrary. He believed the Planning Commission had discretion to allow
the existing fence. It was noted that the affidavit contemplated in City Code is not a hard
requirement.

Chair Matheson stated that the Commission would prefer not to require a masonry fence
unless the applicant desires it. Commissioner Cluff asked if the neighboring lot would be
considered compatible if its zoning was R-3 instead of RR-22, and it was clarified that they
could keep the existing fencing in that case because it would not be a non-compatible use.
Mr. Prestwich noted that Mr. Funaro's was the only rezoning request brought before the City
Council from that area and it had been granted. It was, therefore, reasonable to conclude
that other properties would also be granted that same zoning if requested.

Commissioner Cluff asked if it could be stipulated that the masonry fencing requirement
would be waived if the applicant is able to obtain affidavits from the remaining property
owners prior to plat recordation. Mr. Carter noted that if neighboring property owners
disagree with the Planning Commission's decision, they have the right to appeal. He
recommended that if the property owner is able to obtain permission from that property
owner, he should bring the application back to the Planning Commission so the relevant
Condition of Approval can be amended.

Mr. Funaro added that multiple large trees on the eastern fence line would make it difficult
to install new fencing. He asked if there were any relevant regulations regarding the size,
width, or height of trees. Mr. Carter noted that the neighbor does not have the right to allow
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               7
July 11, 2024


branches to hang over onto his side of the property. If it cannot be determined who owns
the trees because they are on both properties and either property owner can demand that
they be removed due to encroachment. Mr. Funaro, however, may have to bear the full
cost. City Code does not regulate the width or size of trees. As long as the fence is fully
intact and encloses the property, it can be built around the trees. If the trees interfere it
becomes a private matter between the two property owners.

Commissioner Cannon’s opinion was that the existing fence should be upgraded to vinyl at
some point but should be at the property owner's discretion.

Commissioner Cannon moved to APPROVE PLZ-23-1007, Rope Maker (Funaro)
Subdivision, located at 1794 West and 11800 South, with the following conditions:

      1.     Subdivision lots and private lane layout shall be consistent with the
             plans presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise
             noted.

      2.     The applicant must Apply for a Final Plan Approval.

      3.     Final Plan and Plat to be reviewed and approved by City Staff.

      4.     Final Plat must be recorded with Salt Lake County.

      5.     Applicant must fix any outstanding Riverton City staff redline comments
             on the plat and plans.

      6.     The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
             applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

      7.     Subdivision shall include a temporary turnaround to meet City and Fire
             Department requirements.

      8.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with the Riverton
             City Standards and ordinances and with the recommendations of the
             Riverton City Engineering Division.

      9.     The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
             Management Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances.

      10.    A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
             construction grading on the site.

      11.    The site and structures shall comply with all applicable Riverton City
             Standards and ordinances, including the applicable Building and Fire
             Codes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
July 11, 2024


       12.    The private lane and utilities in the private lane are to be owned and
              maintained by the property owners. No City maintenance will take place
              on infrastructure outside the Public Right of way or established City
              easement.

       13.    Owners are to execute and record an agreement assigning access rights
              and provide for routine and long-term maintenance of the private lane.

       14.    Existing fencing along the east and west subdivision boundaries may
              remain. The fencing along the north boundary shall be six-foot masonry
              or equivalent as required by Riverton City Code Section 18.155.080.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Cluff. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       C.     "JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT GENERATOR ",
              PLZ-24-2024, AN APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT TO
              INSTALL A BACKUP GENERATOR AND ASSOCIATED SOUND WALL
              FOR THE PUMPHOUSE LOCATED AT 13487 SOUTH 3300 WEST.
              APPLICANT – JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT.

Ms. Halversen presented the Staff Report and stated that the pumphouse is located in a
residential neighborhood and was constructed in 2000. It is on a three-quarter acre parcel
on Lot 1 of the Southwest Village Subdivision, which is zoned RR-22. She noted that the
pumphouse looks like a regular residential home. It has a 2,300-square-foot footprint and
an extra-wide driveway. The Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (“JVWCD”)
considered what they need to do to provide water security during power outages and
determined that they need to add a large generator to provide the ability to deliver water in
case of a power outage. The existing drinking water pump facility provides water to
Herriman, Riverton, and South Jordan.

The JVWCD identified its top five infrastructure upgrades and the Riverton pump station was
identified as the top priority. It needs a generator as well as a sound wall to ensure that it
maintains acceptable sound levels. The generator would be installed at the rear of the
building and be enclosed by a 16-foot sound wall that meets all engineering requirements
for sound. Normal accessory structures can be as close as one foot from the property line
but the generator will be set back 18 to 20 feet. Ms. Halversen was pleased that the JVWCD
is making this improvement to ensure infrastructure security. Notices were mailed to
neighboring property owners and no comments were received.

Ms. Halversen reviewed the recommended Conditions of Approval outlined in the Staff
Report and reported that representatives of the JVWCD and its engineering firm were
present to answer questions.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Ms. Halversen verified that the wall was
designed to meet sound wall requirements. It will be open on the side facing 13400 South.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   9
July 11, 2024



JVWCD representative, Kevin Rubow, reported that they plan to install the generator to
provide emergency power during power disruptions to the electric power grid. The generator
is rated at 65 decibels and sound attenuation is built into the unit itself. The wall will be for
both sound and screening. He noted that 65 decibels is the level of noise a normal
conversation produces at three feet. The generator will only be used during power outages
and for monthly or bi-monthly tests during normal business hours.

In response to a comment from Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Rubow stated that they worked
with the City to design the building to fit into the neighborhood. Commissioner Cannon noted
that the neighbor to the north would likely be the only resident concerned about the sound,
and they were not present at the meeting. He believed everyone who relies on that pump
station for water would be very pleased if they were taking this step. Mr. Rubow stated that
they are looking at the entire system and upgrading critical pumping facilities to meet water
demands during a power failure.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved to APPROVE PLZ-24-2024, Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District Generator, with the following conditions:

       1.     Building materials and modifications will be harmonious with the
              existing building and match the submitted plans presented to the
              Commission.

       2.     The applicant shall obtain a Building Permit and demonstrate
              compliance with all applicable building codes for both the generator and
              sound wall.

       3.     The generator may not receive a final inspection until the sound wall is
              completed.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

There were no decision items.

4.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

       A.     PLANNING COMMISSION TRAINING – RYAN CARTER, CITY ATTORNEY.

Mr. Carter reported that working with the Commissioners who each have varying levels of
experience can present challenges for training. He suggested that Commissioners with
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              10
July 11, 2024


specific questions schedule a meeting with him and the Planning Department staff to cover
their questions in more detail. He intended to come before the Commission twice per year
to report on recent cases published by the Utah Court of Appeals and Utah Supreme Court
that specifically address Land Use issues. If the Commission would like additional training
topics addressed, they should provide feedback to Mr. Carter so he can add those topics to
his case law reviews. He indicated that he would send follow-up emails with the opinions
discussed at each meeting.

Mr. Carter noted that Planning Commissioners tend to worry about setting a precedent when
making decisions related to things like zoning cases. Members of the Commission often
ask how a specific decision will affect future applications. The first case he discussed came
before the Utah Supreme Court and illustrated how hard it is for a governmental entity to be
bound by a prior zoning decision as it affects Land Use. The second case involved making
sure that meeting attendees feel that they have had a fair opportunity to be heard.

Molding Investments v. Box Elder County

In this case, Box Elder County received two competing applications to build landfills at
approximately the same time. In 2003, Applicant A applied to install a landfill. They went
through the regulatory approval process and were approved, but they did not build. The
application was dormant for nearly 10 years by which time their original Conditional Use
Permit had lapsed. The County amended its regulations regarding landfills during that time,
but they decided to reinstate the lapsed permits. At approximately the same time,
Application B was submitted and denied. Applicant A had prior approval, but the prior
approval had lapsed. The permits were reinstated at approximately the same time as
Applicant B's Land Use application for a landfill in a different area of the County. Whereas
Applicant A’s approval process was relatively smooth, Applicant B had some minor public
opposition and was denied.

Applicant B filed a lawsuit alleging that they were treated differently from Applicant A and
were, therefore, discriminated against. They further alleged that in doing so, the County
caused damages because the company was no longer able to have a landfill. The
discrimination case was based on the 14th Amendment, which was originally designed to
protect against discrimination against minority classes of people. Over time, that law has
evolved in the courts to say that there is such a thing as a class of one. You can, as an
individual, say that you have been discriminated against if you can show that a governmental
entity has treated somebody just like you in a way that's different from the way they are
treating you now. That constitutes a comparative form of discrimination that the 14th
Amendment will protect you from under the right circumstances.

The Applicant who brought the lawsuit pointed out that there was public resistance to both
applications, yet Application A was approved and Application B was not. Neither property
totally conformed with modern zoning codes. The lawsuit asserted that while that may be a
basis to deny an application if a similar application is approved, they should receive the
same treatment. The argument was that the exception becomes the new standard. They
also said that either landfill would be guilty of the same environmental impacts because both
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  11
July 11, 2024


would store waste on the ground. They then argued that the county should be required to
approve their application.

Discrimination can happen at many levels but the smaller you get by way of a class, the
more particular the facts must be to show your case, and the more difficult it is to prove. The
strongest arguments raised by the applicant were that both would be located within Box
Elder County, both were publicly opposed on similar concerns and both landfills would not
be situated within landfill corridors required by the ordinance.

The Court concluded that the applicant was not similarly situated for several reasons,
including that a decade had passed from the time the first and second applications were
considered. They recognized that a new Planning Commission, a new set of public
policymakers, was taking their County in a different direction by the time the second
application was reviewed. Whereas in the first application, they seemed to be honoring the
policy decisions made 10 years previously they weren’t going to continue to be held by those
decisions moving forward. The Court ruled that democracy requires leadership be allowed
to go in new directions as new people are appointed into office and they would not interfere
with that. That derailed the Class-of-One theory of discrimination. Different people took
their government in a new direction, which is reasonable because a government should be
allowed to change decisions it makes relative to the past so they are not bound by the
precedent. They also considered other material distinctions such as that one applicant had
to apply for a Conditional Use Permit, whereas the other had to apply for a zone change.

Mr. Carter reminded the Planning Commission that it is easy to distinguish between cases
so they won’t have a Class-of-One claim going forward. It was made clear that the Class-
of-One claim is difficult to prove in a Land Use case. It is easier to prove in employment or
contract cases, but regarding Land Use the plaintiff must identify comparables that are
similarly situated in all material aspects, which is a substantial burden of proof.

Commissioner Cluff asked how this would apply to the requirement for turn-of-the-century
features in the downtown area. For example, the Burger King building they considered in
the last meeting versus Big O Tires or the House of Vapes. Mr. Carter clarified that when
there are themes that do not specify exactly what must be placed in the area, some variation
between buildings is allowed as long as the building matches the historical theme required
by City Code and there is a rational explanation. A theme is subjective but that subjectivity
also provides room to maneuver.

Chair Matheson noted that the Burger King design varies somewhat from the appearance
of most buildings in the Historic District. If it is approved and a later application exaggerates
certain features of its design that the Planning Commission does not believe match the
theme of the area, he was concerned about being able to deny the application. Mr. Carter
clarified that they would just need a valid reason for denial.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff regarding vape shops, Mr. Carter
indicated that the law has been rapidly evolving regarding the government’s treatment of
tobacco specialty retailers. He noted that the industry is backed by Philip Morris and there
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                12
July 11, 2024


is a lot of money behind the industry being able to move their products through specialty
shops and grocery stores. Specialty tobacco retailers are distinguished from grocery stores
based on the percentage of square footage the business devotes to tobacco products.
Radically different regulations can apply to a tobacco retailer as compared to a grocery store.
The Utah Legislature recently passed statutes that call on cities to have regulatory controls
over vape shops if they are allowed. A statute was added that states that nothing within its
regulatory controls requires that a particular business be allowed. Some cities have seen
that as a loophole and have begun adopting ordinances banning tobacco retailers. That
issue is pending in the courts and he expected to provide an update at the next training.

Springdale Lodging v. Springdale

Springdale, Utah is a conservative town near Zion National Park. Its revenue is generated
by the tourism industry and as a result, they have a very conservative zoning code. A
developer wanted to rezone his property from Valley Residential to Valley Commercial to
allow for a hotel, retail space, rental housing, and a welcome center. They also expressed
interest in developing affordable high-density housing. Their rezoning application was
summarily denied. The matter was brought before the Utah Court of Appeals, which has
ordered the case to be brought back before the District Court for further consideration.

The City did not supply a transcript to clearly show what happened at the meeting. They put
forward minutes of the meeting, which is only a brief summary of what is said and done.
When Mr. Carter is involved in zoning matters appealed by the court system, he orders a
transcript so every word is presented for the courts to review. Springdale only offered the
minutes, which did not make clear how the applicant was treated when he presented his
case before the Planning Commission and City Council. The minutes show that there were
questions asked of the applicant which were answered.

An attorney later filed an affidavit alleging that he represented the applicant at the meeting,
and he was not allowed to make his case. He stated that the minutes only showed instances
where he was answering questions because he was instructed that he could not give a
presentation. He was told that the only thing he could do when making his case before the
Planning Commission was answer questions that were put to him. Because the minutes do
not show that he tried to speak and was cut off, it is not clear that that occurred. However,
it is plausible that minutes would not show such an interaction. He also asserted in his
affidavit that he had visual depictions of the project once finished so he could show people
what it would look like and hopefully allay their concerns but he was not allowed to make
those presentations before the Planning Commission. The minutes do not mention the
presentation items.

Due process requires an opportunity to be heard, which includes the right to be able to make
your case within neutral parameters. If there is a rule that people can only speak for three
minutes, that rule can be enforced but the Planning Commission cannot choose what they
are allowed to say. If someone alleges that they were not given an opportunity to fully
explain themselves before the Planning Commission made its decision and the minutes do
not accurately reflect what took place, their argument might be upheld. When an applicant
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  13
July 11, 2024


is brought forward to answer questions, it is important to ask if there is anything else they
want to present and include something on the record to show that they have been asked to
speak freely.

Mr. Carter did not know if a record was inadvertently created that made it seem like the
applicant was not allowed to speak but did not mean to or if they truly meant to not allow
him to speak. The Court of Appeals found that the affidavit asserts the applicant was not
allowed to speak, and the minutes don't show otherwise. The applicant has a right to speak,
so it was remanded to the district court.

Mr. Carter stated that this case emphasizes the importance of allowing people to speak.
Sometimes applicants do not understand the process so they are being educated while the
Commission is interacting with them. That education should include an invitation to speak
freely. For example, "Is there anything else you'd like to say? Now is your time. Tell us about
your project."

Chair Matheson stated that sometimes applicants have questions for Staff as part of their
presentation and asked how that should be handled. Mr. Carter indicated that it would not
be appropriate for there to be a direct conversation between an applicant and Staff during
the meeting. They could be directed to address their concerns generally, and the
Commission could then ask questions of Staff if they feel it is necessary.

Commissioner Cluff asked if this would also apply to public commenters. She noted that
sometimes there is a question-and-answer period with the public. Mr. Carter stated that it
would be proper to tell people that it is not a neighborhood petition or vote and the Planning
Commission does not need to hear the same comment from multiple residents. If they have
something unique to say, they should share it but once the information is on the record it
does not need to be restated. He noted that a fundamental misunderstanding is that the
public believes that if they show enough support to oppose something, they will be entitled
to a denial of the application, which is not true on administrative items. Either the application
meets the Ordinance or it doesn't, and if it does the applicant is entitled to approval.

Commissioner Cluff asked about allowing some members of the public to speak longer than
others, for example cutting off loud or argumentative speakers. Mr. Carter stated that there
are ways people can be expelled from a meeting. A motion must be made, seconded, and
voted on and it has to happen while they are speaking. That creates a fairly chaotic process,
and it could involve law enforcement removing the person from the meeting. The Planning
Commission could not allow one person to speak for four minutes and another to only speak
for two, because that could create a Class-of-One discrimination argument.

Chair Matheson gave an example of a resident who spoke against the lights at the bowling
alley. She had photographs to present to the Planning Commission and he believed they
were important to review although they were not relevant to the application. Mr. Carter
clarified that the Planning Commission has more leeway with members of the public than
applicants. In her case, she mentioned something that was not introduced into the record
before she spoke. The Commission would have several options in that instance. When their
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               14
July 11, 2024


two minutes are over, the citizen should stop speaking. The Commission can then take a
recess to consider the information that was presented to them. They could also continue
the hearing, take public comment from others present, bring that person back up, and ask
clarifying questions. They would not be given two more minutes. It would be limited to
questions from the Commission. That would be considered reasonable, as would tabling
the matter to another meeting.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Mr. Carter stated that the difference
between an abstention and a no vote is very subtle in the law. For a motion to pass, a
majority of the people present at the meeting must say yes. An abstention does not count
as a yes. It also does not count as a no because it does not communicate the
Commissioner's position on the matter. They are not voting either way but their presence in
the meeting counts. For example, if three members vote yes, two vote no, and one abstains,
the motion fails. A Commissioner can abstain for a variety of reasons, including not being
ready to vote because they feel like they need more information or more time, or due to a
real or perceived conflict of interest. Abstaining means that you are not taking a position on
the matter.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he sometimes abstains because he knows both parties
and does not want to take a side. Mr. Carter noted that context matters. In the case of a
Site Plan application, if it meets the criteria, the Commissioners have a duty to vote yes. A
rezoning application has more latitude. As long as the Commissioner has a valid reason on
the record, it would be reasonable to abstain.

Commissioner Cluff stated that she has heard that the City Council pays more attention to
votes that are not unanimous. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the Council often asks for the
Commissioners' reasons for voting against approval, not specifically about split votes.

5.     MINUTES

       A.     MINUTES FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
              6.27.24.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of June 27, 2024, as reported. Commissioner Cluff
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.     ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:15 PM.
