                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             March 23, 2023
Subject:          PLZ-23-2010 Conditional Use, “Bergstrom Private Lane”, to be located at
                  1933 West 11800 South. Applicant- Kevin Bergstrom


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2010 “Bergstrom Private Lane”, to be
located at 1933 West 11800 South with the following conditions:

      1. Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      2. Approval is for one (1) additional lot access onto an existing private lane for a total of two
         (2) lots accessing the private lane.
      3. Private lane shall be at least 20-ft wide drivable surface.
      4. Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the standards of
         the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      5. The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the standards of
         the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      6. The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and emergency response.
      7. The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall conform to
         Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not limited to width, number of
         driveways and separation distance between driveways.
      8. The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval from the Planning Commission prior to
         any construction commencing on the subdivision.


 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for permission to create a new lot to access an
existing private lane at 1933 West 11800 South. The subject parcel is Lot 101 of the recently
recorded “Bergstrom Estates Amended Subdivision”. Lot 101 is 21,780-sf and is zoned R-4 which
allows lots with a minimum area of 10,000-sf, so it could be subdivided. Neighboring parcels are
a mix of R-3, R-4, and RR-22.

Lot 1 is already crossed by an existing private lane which runs along the west side of the lot to
provide access to the house on Lot 102. Lot 102 is 34,901-sf and is zoned RR-22 (21,780-sf

 Report by: TJP
minimum). The easement for the existing lane is 20-ft, as required for a single user, but it appears
the paved section is less than the current standard of 20-ft of hard surface.

The applicant would like permission to add a lot to the private lane with the intention of subdividing
Lot 101 into two lots of about 10,000-ft. The front lot would continue to access 11800 South and
the new lot would access the private lane. A subdivision application would be required, and
ultimately reviewed by the Planning Commission.

City Code states the first preference is for development to use public streets but recognizes public
streets may be “impossible or impractical”, on some properties. Staff believes this property
should be considered for a private lane for the many reasons including:

    •    There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master transportation plan.
    •    No local streets are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property.
    •    A private lane would not prevent access by neighboring properties.
    •    The property is already served by a private lane.

City Code further states that private lanes serving 1 to 2 lots must have 20 feet of paced surface width and
have an approved fire turnaround. In cases where the request is to add a new lot to an existing lane the
code has clear instructions:

18.40.070(2)(d) (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the
lane meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.

In other words the subdivision plans for the development of Lot 101 would need to include a plan to have at
least 20-ft wide paved lane through the entire length of Lot 101.


Recommendations
Staff believes this meets the criteria for a private lane and is therefore recommending approval
for adding an additional lot to the existing private lane f with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1. Public Notice including Area Map.
           2. Application.
           3. Conceptual Site Plan (Bergstrom Estates Amended Subdivision).




 Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
     1- Does this property qualify for a private lane?
     2- What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
           (Such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length).

 18.35.070 Lots located on private lanes.
 (1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
 residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
 impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
 land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
 approved by the planning commission.

 Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least two
 of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):
           (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
           public street; or

           (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided with
           public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of any
           adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

           (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as required
           by the master transportation plan.

 Additionally, a private lane is subject to these requirements

 (2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
 properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
 with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
 methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
 portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
 subsequently:
        (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.
        (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.
        (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
        meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.
        (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
        additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city up
        to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
        determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (3) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.

 (4) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
 based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
 on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

 (5) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
 Report by: TJP
required by city officials or workers.

(6) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
streets shall apply to all buildings and usesadjoining private
rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required
private lane width. No portion of the private lane may be
counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual
lots. On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is
occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private lane area
may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see
Figure 1).


(7) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.

(8) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.

(9) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(10) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(11) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(12) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(13) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.


Fire Requirements for Private Lanes

                 Drivable Lane Width                                         Parking Rules
                      20-26 feet                                        No Parking both sides.
                      26-32 feet                                        No Parkin on one side.
                   32 feet and over                                  Parking allowed on both sides.




Report by: TJP
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                 The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                 on Thursday, March 23, 2023 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                 Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to
take public comment on the following application:
Kevin Bergstrom is seeking approval for a private lane, to be located at 1933 West 11800 South,
Riverton, Utah.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.


                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
