                         PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING AGENDA

                                      November 12, 2020 at 6:30 PM
                                 Riverton City Hall, 12830 S Redwood Road

Agenda Packet

     Agenda Packet 11-12-20

     2020-11-12.PC.Packet.pdf

1.   Call to Order / Roll Call

2.   Public Hearings - Due to restrictions in place related to COVID-19, this meeting will not be
     open for public attendance. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. The staff
     report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting. The
     staff report and the meeting broadcast will be made available through the link below. Audio
     and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public comment for this item
     may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or via the meetings link below. All
     comments submitted up to 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning
     Commission. If you have questions about the application and how it might affect you please
     call the Riverton City Planning Department at 801-208-3124. Riverton City Meeting
     information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php This link will take you to the
     applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items
     scheduled for review by the Planning Commission.

     2.a     Home Occupation, Laura Watson is requesting a Conditional Use Permit for a Home
             Occupation for “Dazzling Accessories” to be operated from her home on 12866 S. Maple
             Springs Road

     2.b     Short-term Rental, Justin Whitney is requesting a Conditional Use Permit for a Short Term
             Rental to be located at 12931 South Sandy Slope Circle

     2.c     Zone Text Change, Riverton City is proposing amendments to Title 18 regarding Food
             Trucks

     2.d     Zone Text Change, Riverton City is proposing amendments to its Accessory Structure
             Ordinance addressing square footage requirements

3.   Decision Items

     3.a     Amended Site Plan, Tony Skanchy is proposing exterior additions and modifications to a
             previously approved commercial site/building, South Hills Dental, located at 4013 West

                                                                                                         1
                13400 South

4.    Discussion Items

      4.a       Parking Standards in Multi-Family Zones

5.    Minutes

      5.a       October 22, 2020

6.    Adjournment

Riverton City Hall is an ADA compliant facility. Individuals needing special accommodations or assistance during this meeting
shall notify the City Recorder’s Office at 801-208-3126 at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. Accessible parking and
entrance is located on the south end of the building with elevator access to the Council Chambers located on the second floor.

                                                       Certificate of Posting
I, Virginia Loader, Riverton City Recorder, certify that, at least 24 hours prior to the meeting, the foregoing Agenda was
emailed to the Salt Lake Tribune, Deseret News and the Riverton Journal. A copy of the Agenda was also posted at Riverton
City Hall, on Riverton City’s Website at www.rivertonutah.gov, and on the Utah Public Meeting Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov.

Dated this day of Planning Commission Meetings




                                                                                                                                 2
