                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            April 14, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-21-8010 Amended Site Plan, ”K-9 Design Pet Grooming” amending the
                 site plan and exterior of an existing commercial building in the C-G Zone,
                 located at 1369 W 12600 S. Applicant-Jennifer Cannon.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-21-8010 “K-9 Design Pet Grooming” amending
the site plan and exterior of an existing commercial building in the C-G Zone, located at 1369 W
12600 S with the following conditions:

    1. Approval is for replacement of existing exterior stairwell with enclosed internal stairwell.
    2. Exterior materials shall consist of ‘hardi-board’ siding as shown on the submitted plans,
       with color consistent with the existing siding.

or
I move the Planning Commission deny PLZ-21-8010 “K-9 Design Pet Grooming” proposed
amendment to the site plan and exterior of an existing commercial building in the C-G Zone,
located at 1369 W 12600 S.

Background

This is a public hearing for amending an existing commercial site plan located on the south side
of 12600 South at 1369 West. Amended Site Plan applications are requests to make changes
to a previously approved site plan, or the architecture or appearance of a commercial building.
Commercial Buildings are reviewed by the Planning Commission as part of commercial site
plans, and if a property owner desires to change an existing commercial building they must
apply for an amended commercial site plan.

The building is a renovated residential home that was converted to a commercial use many
years ago. The current owner is renovating the interior of the building for use as a pet grooming
salon, “K-9 Design Pet Grooming”. As part of the renovation, they are proposing enclosing the
existing external stairwell between the main floor and basement. This would allow internal
passage between those floors. The exterior finish of the stairwell would be ‘hardi-board’, and
the addition would be similar in materials to the existing exterior stairwell enclosure.

Report by: TJP
4/11/2022
This was noticed as a public hearing item, but no comments had been received when this report
was written.

Recommendations

The stairwell enclosure remains within the basic material palate and colors tones of the building.
As an exterior stairwell enclosure already exists, the addition is largely consistent with the
existing building massing. The installation of ‘hardi-board’ in place of the existing siding is
consistent with the original materials and color palette. Staff has no objections to the proposed
changes to the existing building and site.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Public Notice including Area Map.
        2. Application.
        3. Existing Building Photos
        4. Proposed Exterior Expansion Plans.




Report by: TJP
4/11/2022
              SCALE 1:20




    226-013




                   HOME DESIGNS

©
©




    HOME DESIGNS
©




    HOME DESIGNS
©




    HOME DESIGNS
