                                MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             June 9, 2022
Subject:          PLZ-22-2013 Conditional Use, “Seehusen Private Lane”, to be located at
                  11905 South 2700 West. Applicant- Lander Seehusen.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2013 “Seehusen Private Lane”, to be
located at 11905 South 2700 West with the following conditions:

      1.   Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      2.   A maximum of one (1) lot may access the private lane.
      3.   Private lane shall be at least 20-ft wide drivable surface.
      4.   Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the standards of
           the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      5.   The private lane may be required to include a turnaround designed and installed to
           the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
           Specifications.
      6.   The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and emergency response.
      7.   The subject parcel’s driveways on 2700 West Street, including the private lane entrance,
           shall conform to Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not limited to width,
           number of driveways and separation distance between driveways.
      8.   The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval prior to any construction commencing on
           the private lane.


 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a private lane at 11905 South 2700 West in an
RR-22 Residential zone, which requires ½ acre lots. The subject property is an existing 1.1-acre
lot with a 1396 sf rambler with a basement near the front of the lot. The property has about 165-ft
of frontage on 2700 West Street and is 290-ft deep. The applicant would like to use a private
lane on the south side of his property to access land to the east. The approximate dimensions of
this private lane would be 170 ft long and 20 ft wide.

The applicant has provided a conceptual plan showing a potential layout using a private lane on
the south side of the property. The applicant reports that he attempted to work with the owners
 Report by: TJP
of the Gillette View Private Lane to the north, to see if he could share the existing lane, but an
agreement could not be reached. A new lane to the south provides better separation of driveways.
If the lane is approved, the applicant will follow with an application for a subdivision which will be
reviewed by staff and by the Planning Commission in another public hearing.

It is important to note that plans submitted for a Conditional Use are only conceptual for the
purpose of discussing the conditional use for a private lane. Concept plans are not approved by
the Commission with this application. A subdivision application will follow and come before the
Commission at a later time.

There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master transportation plan. No local streets
are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property. A private lane would not prevent
access by neighboring properties.

If the Commission approves the use of a private lane, the private lane and subsequent
development will be required to follow all City Code dictating the width of the lane, lane
construction, and limitations on setbacks and lot coverage.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of a private lane for the property with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.




 Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
     1- Does this property qualify for a private lane?
     2- What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
           (Such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length).

 18.35.070 Lots located on private lanes.
 (1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
 residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
 impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
 land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
 approved by the planning commission.

 Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least two
 of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):
           (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
           public street; or

           (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided with
           public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of any
           adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

           (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as required
           by the master transportation plan.

 Additionally, a private lane is subject to these requirements

 (2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
 properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
 with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
 methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
 portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
 subsequently:

        (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.

        (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.

        (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
        meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.

        (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
        additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city up
        to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
        determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (3) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.

 Report by: TJP
(4) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

(5) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
required by city officials or workers.

(6) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
streets shall apply to all buildings and usesadjoining private
rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required
private lane width. No portion of the private lane may be
counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual
lots. On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is
occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private lane area
may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see
Figure 1).


(7) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.

(8) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.

(9) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(10) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(11) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(12) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(13) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Public Notice including Area Map.
          2. Application.
          3. Conceptual Site Plan.




Report by: TJP
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                 The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                 on Thursday, June 9, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                 City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
comment on the following application:
Lander Seehusen is seeking approval for a private lane, to be located at 11905 South 2700 West




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertonutah.gov
