                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            July 11, 2024
Subject:         PLZ-24-2023 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Rush Valley Guns”, an
                 application to have an online firearm sales and purchase business located at
                 2026 West 12190 South. Applicant- Jeffrey Turner


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-2023 “Rush Valley Guns”, at 2026 West
12190 South with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals,
       including an FFL License through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. No business activity may take place outside the home before 7 am or after 7 pm.
    6. Applicant may use up to 50% of the garage for business use.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use Permit for a Home Occupation, “Rush Valley Guns,”
at 2026 West 12190 South. The property is .25-acre and is lot 305 in Brookwood Phase 3 in a
cul-de-sac. The property is zoned R-4, as are all neighboring properties. The house is a split-
level with an attached 2-car garage. The property has a drive approach on the southwest side of
the house and an extra-wide driveway that ends in a garage and extra parking space.

The proposed business is a home occupation gun dealership. Customers buy regulated firearms or
parts online, and have them shipped to a local FFL (Federal Firearms License). An FFL license is
issued and regulated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) which has strict rules
for obtaining and maintaining a license. Shipping rules requires the FFL Licensee to sign for
packages when they are delivered, packages are never dropped off or left on the porch by the
delivery company. ATF rules also mandate the FFL Licensee must transfer the firearm or parts to
 Report by: LH
the buyer at the location where the FFL is licensed. There are also rules for how firearms are stored
at the house. The ATF has an extensive application and review process which includes approval
of City Zoning.

The applicant, Mr. Turner, is applying for permission to use up to 50% of the space in the garage
for his business. He will not have employees, and he anticipates having approximately 1-2
deliveries per week with customers coming to the home only rarely.

This application comes before Planning Commission because the applicant requests permission to
utilize space in his garage for his business. The home occupation code specifies that the
commission is to hear the application in the case that the applicant requests to use garage space
for business use. Mr. Turner’s wife also has a conditional use permit, her business model is baking
cheesecakes in the home. The Home Occupation code states that if there are more than two home
occupations at one address then the application goes directly to the Planning Commission.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above. The
proposed business is anticipated to have very little impact on the neighborhood. Notices were
sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web- page. At the
time of this report, no comments had been received.



Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.
 Report by: LH
If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.

18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
         exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home
         occupations.




18.190.060 Fixed standards.
             (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the residential integrity
             of the property and shall not displace any required front yard landscaping.

             (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted amounts as
             specified in this title.

             (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.

 Report by: LH
             (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars, pick-up trucks,
             vans and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction equipment, and other heavy
             equipment shall not be permitted to be brought to the home by employees.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage on vehicles
             parked at the home.

(6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the home
occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and use off-street
parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or business-related visitor
vehicles.

(7) Vehicle Advertisement. Vehicles or equipment may not be used for the primary purpose of
advertising the home occupation at the site of the home occupation.

8) Designating Areas of Property to Be Used. The home occupation applicant must designate the
portion of the home, accessory structure, yard, attached or detached garage dedicated as the
principal location for business activities.

(9) External Appearance. The home occupation must maintain or improve the external residential
appearance of the principal structure, attached or detached garage or accessory structures. Any
structural alterations to accommodate the home occupation shall maintain the architectural
aesthetics and compatibility of the neighborhood.

(10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any unscreened or
unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not limited to, home
occupation events or activities; and storage or display of supplies, inventory or equipment when
such use is in conjunction with the sales, service or production of goods. Any screened area or
structure used for the home occupation must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.

14) Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not substantially,
unreasonably and uncharacteristically interfere or disrupt the peace, quiet and domestic
tranquility of the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not create or be associated with or
produce odor, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, noises or vibrations, excessive traffic or other
nuisances, including interferences with radio and television reception or any other adverse effects
within the neighborhood.




Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1. Public Notice including Area Map
          2. Application
          3. Site and Parking Plans


 Report by: LH
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                  The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                  on Thursday, July 11, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                  City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Road to take
                                  public comment on the following application:Jeffrey Turner is
                                  seeking approval for a home-based business, “Rush Valley Guns,”
                                  to be located at 2026 West 12190 South. He is requesting
permission to operate a business providing the online purchase and sales of firearms. He will use
space in the detached garage for his business. No work will take place in the home, and customers
or deliveries will come to the home only rarely.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
