                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 25, 2026
Subject:         “Window Signage, Amendments to Riverton City’s Code Sections
                 18.150.040, 18.150.090, and 18.150.120 Regulating Window Signs
                 Proposed by Riverton City.


In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of the proposed amendments to
Riverton City Code Sections 18.150.040, 18.150.090, and 18.150.120, as shown, with the
following modifications:
     1.

Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of the proposed amendments to
Riverton City Code Sections 18.150.040, 18.150.090, and 18.150.120.

Background

Riverton City is proposing changes Riverton City Sign Code, Section 18.150, updating and
specifying standards related to “window signs”. Riverton City’s Sign Code currently addresses
such signs, which are defined as signs placed in or on windows of a commercial building. The
current code limit window signage as follows:

(11) Window Signs. Window signs, including posters, messages or displays painted or mounted
on the interior side of a window; provided, that no more than 50 percent of the total window area
on which the sign is located is covered.

The intent of this update is to clarify this standard, including better defining window signs and
providing more detail on allowed area for display.

The updated language distinguishes between window signage and tinting of windows. Provided
the tinting material is separate from any signage and does not include any writing or other copy,
tinting would not be included in the restrictions covered by the sign code. The update also limits
advertising in window signage to the specific commercial space/tenant.

The updated language maintains the limitation to no more than 50 percent of the window area,
 but clarifies further by stating that the limitation is 50 percent of any single window, and also no
 more than 33 percent of the entire window area on each building façade. In preparing this
 update, staff researched similar codes in Utah cities, and the proposed language is consistent
 with what is in place in most cities surveyed.

 A zone text change is a legislative recommendation by the Planning Commission. City Council
 will have the final decision in a separate public hearing.

 The Planning Commission has previously reviewed draft language of this ordinance
 amendment. Based on feedback from that review, the language has been revised. Language
 referencing review by law enforcement officials has been reviewed, as there also is in the text a
 requirement that window signage cannot create a safety hazard. The limitation to “ground floor
 tenants only” has been removed, and additional language that smaller sized windows can utilize
 all of the space for signage provided that square footage is included in the overall calculations
 has been added.

 Staff will present additional information for review and discussion at the hearing.

Attachments
 The following items are attached:

        1. Proposed Changes to 183.150.040, 18.150.090, and 18.150.120.
18.150.040 Definitions
“Window Sign”

          means signs, including posters, messages, or displays painted, attached, or
          otherwise displayed on the interior or exterior of a window or door so as to be
          visible from outside the building. Window sign does not include illuminated or
          flashing signs. Window sign does not include brown, black, white, tan, gray, or
          reflective tint, if such tint material is separate and distinct from sign area(s), and is
          plain and free of any writing, pictorial representation, illustration, emblem,
          symbol, design, or other figure of similar character.

18.150.090 Exempt signs for which no sign permit is required.
   (11) Window Signs. Window signs, including posters, messages or displays painted or
   mounted on the interior side of a window; provided, that no more than 50 percent of the
   total window area on which the sign is located is covered. Window signs as defined by
   Riverton City Code, may only advertise or otherwise reference the business,
   goods, services, etc specific to that building or tenant space. Window signs shall not be
   located as to block clear view of exits or entrances or to create a safety hazard. Window
   signs shall not cover more than 50 percent of any single window, nor more than 33 percent
   of the entire surface area of all windows for each building, or tenant space in a multi-tenant
   building. A single window is any window, or section of windows, that is separated from
   another window by 6 inches or more. A window included within a door is always
   considered a separate window.
       (a) Windows smaller 10 square feet or small may cover the entire surface area of the
           window with signage, which will still count to the 33 percent overall maximum.



18.150.120 Exceptions and qualifications for specific sign types.
   (16) Window Signs. Window signs are only allowed as described in 18.15.090(11).
