                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                  APRIL 28, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Keith Breinholt                                  Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Gary Cannon                                      Gordon Miner, City Engineer
John Gilchrist
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. and reported on
changes to the agenda. The Pledge was led by Commissioner Rushton.

2.     PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

       A.     REZONE, “KUNZ REZONE” A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT AND
              REZONE OF 3.25-ACRES LOCATED NEAR 11944 SOUTH 3600 WEST.
              THE CURRENT ZONING IS R-3, AND THE REQUESTED ZONE IS RM-6.
              APPLICANT- NATHAN AND LAURA KUNZ.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the area is familiar to
the Commission with a rezone and General Plan Amendment having been done on the
property to the north. Ivory Homes also recently requested site plan approval. That project
was currently under construction. When the Ivory Development was being considered there
was talk of potentially rezoning the property to the south, however, it was not included in any
of the notices or rezone applications. There was discussion of extending utilities and road
stubs to the south. A map of the site was displayed. What is proposed are three parcels on
3.25 acres. Notice was sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property.
Due to the higher density in the area, a large number of people were given notice.

Mr. Prestwich described how the General Plan and zoning interact and stated that in a built-
out subdivision, the zoning matches the General Plan. There are areas of the City, however,
that are underdeveloped or undeveloped that have zoning. When the Planning Commission
and City Council undertake a General Plan they look at parcels and can see the potential
for them to possibly change in the future. As a result, they assign a General Plan
Designation that could differ from the zoning.

In this case, the General Plan for the corner is Low-Density Residential. When Ivory came
in, the City changed the General Plan to Medium-High Density Residential and
simultaneously changed the zoning to RM-6. The current General Plan is Low-Density
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
April 28, 2022

Residential, which requires minimum 14,000 square-foot lots and is equivalent to any of the
four zones R-1 through R-3. The applicant is requesting a change to the Medium-High
Density of five to eight units per acre, which allows the RM-6 or RM-8 zones. Most of the
properties on the east side of 3600 West are Estate Density with one-half acre lots or larger.
The properties on the west side of 3600 West are Low-Density and Medium-Density to
Lowe’s. The lot sizes are 10,000 and 14,000 square feet. The Ivory Harvest Gardens
Development allows for Medium-High Density, which is the General Plan designation the
applicant is requesting. The zoning map shows RM-6 with an SD Overlay there.

Mr. Prestwich clarified that the requested zoning is RM-6, which previously allowed for
condominiums, townhomes, or single-family detached homes on 4,000 square-foot lots.
Twin homes were also allowed for a time. The City Council had routinely been placing SD
designations on properties with RM-6 zoning and limiting it to single-family small lot
development. It was done so often that Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge,
asked the Council if they would like to make a change and eliminate condominiums and
townhomes in the RM-6 zone. The Council supported the idea, and it was clarified that the
ordinance was changed. It now only allows single-family detached on 5,000 square-foot
lots. Mr. Prestwich explained that the ordinance change applies to the Ivory development
and there are some twin homes in the project. It would not, however, apply to the proposed
rezone to RM-6. It was clarified that the minimum lot size is 5,000 square feet. The lot
frontage is 45 feet with a width of 90 feet. The RM-6 zone requires 50 feet of frontage. The
RM-6 zone has a 15-foot front setback and a 20-foot garage setback. The side setbacks
are five feet and rear setbacks of 15 or 25 feet when adjacent to existing single-family
residential. There is no lot coverage maximum in the RM-6 zone. The maximum building
height is 35 feet for both zones.

Mr. Prestwich stated that several comments were received after the packets were sent out.
That feedback was provided to the Commission Members. A number of comments
expressed disappointment with how the area has changed and the fact that the City rezoned
the Ivory property. Mr. Prestwich reported that the City has recognized this area as one that
is suitable for the RM-6 zone. There was some question, however, as to whether this is the
right place to break the zone boundary at the property line or continue it south to the creek.

Commissioner Cannon recalled that when the Planning Commission forwarded a
recommendation on the zoning for the Ivory Development to the City Council, an Elderly
Housing Overlay was attached to it. Mr. Prestwich stated that the diagonal line indicates
that it is a Special Designation (“SD”). The hatch in the opposite direction denotes that it is
an Elderly Housing Overlay. The applicant is not requesting the Elderly Housing Overlay as
part of the rezone. The resulting lots would look the same, but the family use would be
different. Commissioner Cannon admired the Kunz Family who has done a great job of
representing the City. Access issues were discussed. Commissioner Cannon did not
support putting many more accesses out onto 3600 West.

Commissioner Park addressed the letter received from Brook Jenkins and clarified that as
many as six homes per acre are allowed. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the RM-6 zone allows
for 5,000 square-foot lots with a maximum density of six dwelling units per gross acre. In
reality, however, dedications are required that eliminate that possibility.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
April 28, 2022


A question was raised with regard to the potential for low-income housing units. The
applicant, Nathan Kunz, commented that the State of Utah has issued policies directing
cities to allow for moderate-income housing. He stated that refusing the rezone on the basis
that it could lead to moderate-income housing would most likely not hold up in court. An
issue that the State Legislature has been grappling with for the past few years is that
moderate-income housing is measured by whether the price point of a home is affordable to
someone earning 75% of the area median income. In the current market, the cost of building
materials is pricing any unit beyond reach. In addition, once developers have their density
are still putting as much square footage as possible in the homes. Based on the various
challenges that exist, this type of housing is not being built and potential units are typically
priced out of the market.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the proposed area is too small for parking. The developer will be
required to provide off-street parking for two cars per unit in the driveway. Parking will also
be allowed on the street. A stub road is required out of the Ivory Project to the south. It is
a 54-foot right-of-way with parking on both sides.

Mr. Kunz reported that they moved to Riverton on December 27, 1989. They originally
purchased a one-acre parcel and one year later they bought two acres behind them. Three
or four years ago the property lines were square, however, they reached an agreement with
the neighbor to the south and quitclaimed the property on their side of the wash to the
neighbor. The neighbor in turn quitclaimed the area on the Kunz’s side of the wash to them.
They felt that Midas Creek would be a good breaking point for dissimilar zoning. In terms of
senior housing, he acknowledged the need for these types of units. Mr. Kunz stated that
they have no plans to move or sell the property. The proposed change would be on paper
only. He confirmed that they live on the front one acre.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Rushton found the request to be consistent with the General Plan and the
rezone to the north. He did not feel that more senior housing was needed but recognized
the need for more affordable housing. He expressed his support.

Chair Cluff was comfortable with the request.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-22-4004, for changing the General Plan Designation
and Zoning of 3.25 acres located near 11944 South 3600 West, thus changing the
General Plan Designation to Medium-High Density Residential and changing the
zoning RM-6. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Gilchrist. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              4
April 28, 2022

      B.     HOME OCCUPATION, “BASIN MASONRY” AN IN-HOME OFFICE TO BE
             LOCATED AT 13711 SOUTH LINDA MARIE LANE. APPLICANT- CLARK
             ROUNDY.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that about one year ago complaints were
received regarding the home occupation and there was an investigation. City Code
Enforcement got involved and it was discovered that the home occupation was approved
with no customers or clients and had grown to at least 10 employees. It was a good business
but was taking place in a neighborhood, which was of concern to the neighbors. The
applicant presented an application in August that was continued. At the next scheduled
meeting in October, the applicants were not in attendance and had not provided the
requested information. As a result, the Planning Commission denied the application. There
was a mix-up on the part of the applicant and what they thought needed to be done. They
did not recognize the necessity of them being present at the meeting. The applicants have
since worked with staff and changed their business model. They have cleaned up the site
and employees no longer come to the home. They are now asking to have one on-site
employee, who is not a resident of the home, which is allowed by the ordinance.

The subject property is located at the end of a dead-end street. With development,
connectivity was anticipated in the area. There is a very large garage in the backyard and
the driveway circles the home. Comments were received from the neighbors stating that
they are a good neighbor and have cleaned things up. They were primarily concerned about
on-street parking as it had been an issue in the past. Notices were sent to the neighbors
within 300 feet. One comment was received expressing support and concern about parking.
The applicant's requested use of the detached garage requires Planning Commission
approval. The proposed conditions of approval were reviewed. Mr. Prestwich stated that
the applicant was unable to be present tonight.

Commissioner Cannon reported that the applicant, Mr. Roundy, reached out to him earlier
in the week and he informed him that he needed to be present. He acknowledged that the
use has changed since the last time it was before the Commission and indicated that the
neighbor next door took the time to write indicating that he has no concerns with what is
requested. Basin Masonry is a large company and the fact that the neighbor barely knows
they are there is impressive.

Mr. Prestwich stated that since changes have been made by the applicant, complaints about
the use have ceased. Commissioner Rushton asked about the impact of deliveries coming
to the home. It was determined that that was a question to be raised with the applicant. It
was suggested that a condition be imposed limiting the size of delivery vehicles to and from
the property. Commissioner Rushton suggested that the request be continued until the
applicant can be present to answer questions.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               5
April 28, 2022

Chair Cluff moved to CONTINUE the item to the next Planning Commission Meeting.
The motion was seconded by Commissioner Park. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      C.     HOME OCCUPATION, “ANDI’S PRESCHOOL” AN IN-HOME PRESCHOOL
             TO BE LOCATED AT 12832 SOUTH 1830 WEST. APPLICANT- JAMIE S.
             WEI.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and identified the location of the subject property.
He noted that there are several traditional homes in the area. The applicant is proposing to
open an in-home preschool, which is allowed by the Home Occupation Ordinance and has
special standing as a child group activity. Something similar was seen recently for a
daycare. It was noted that a preschool is similar but has fewer State regulation. Preschools
typically operate in short two-hour increments with more than one session each day three to
five days per week. Mr. Prestwich confirmed with the Public Works Director that there are
plans to do roadwork on 1830 West this summer. A sidewalk will be added on the City side.
The trees were set back when they were planted eight years ago anticipating that the road
would be widened. Water line repairs and installations would also be done. The applicant
has no plans to start the preschool until the fall. Currently, no parking is allowed on 1830
West traveling northbound. The applicant’s traffic plan shows where cars will drop off and
pick up children.

Notice was sent to the neighbors within 300 feet. The applicant was proposing two sessions
per day from 8:40 a.m. to 11:20 a.m. with another session from 12:00 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. The
sample motion proposes separating the sessions by 30 minutes. The preschool will
accommodate six to 12 children. The applicant expects approximately 12 trips per day. The
ordinance allows up to 24 vehicle trips per day, which can be significant in a neighborhood.
1830 West, however, already has a lot of traffic. They expect families to use the Library as
well while waiting for children in the preschool. The ordinance for home occupations with
childcare activities or instruction that are expected to generate or exceed eight children or
students any day must adhere to the following guidelines and shall be used by the Planning
Commission to determine the maximum number of students or children permitted:

      1.     A maximum of 12 students per session and a maximum of 24 students per
             day;

      2.     A maximum of three sessions per day;

      3.     All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicle trips in a day;

      4.     The applicant’s own children count toward the child counts; and

      5.     A 300-foot separation is required from another daycare.

The proposed sample motion was reviewed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
April 28, 2022


The applicant, Jamie Wei, reported that she has a three-year-old named Andi who the
preschool was named after. She was asking for six to 12 students to keep it under 24 vehicle
trips per day. She was also considering having an emphasis on Chinese for one of the
classes if there is interest. She noted that her husband is Chinese. In response to a question
raised, Ms. Wei stated that she does not plan to have any employees other than herself.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-2006 “Andi’s
Preschool”, at 12832 South 1830 West with the following conditions:

       1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances specifically the City’s
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.

       2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business License.

       3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health
              Department approvals.

       4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

       5.     The Home Occupation may have up to 24 children per day (number
              includes the applicant’s children under six years old).

       6.     The Home Occupation may have up to 24 vehicle trips per day by
              customers/parents.

       7.     The applicant may have up to two (2) sessions, with sessions separated
              by at least 30 minutes.

Commissioner Gilchrist seconded the motion.               The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       D.     AMEND SITE PLAN, “LITTLE GENIUSES” AMENDING THE EXTERIOR
              SITE PLAN OF AN EXISTING COMMERCIAL SITE IN THE C-G ZONE
              LOCATED AT 2464 WEST 12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT-GLORIA
              RODRIGUEZ.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request is for a commercial
daycare business on a commercial site. Changes are proposed to the exterior. If changes
are proposed to the interior of the building, a Building Permit review will be required which
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     7
April 28, 2022

is outside the purview of the Planning Commission. The ordinance specifies that changes
to the exterior can be addressed by the Planning Commission. The location of the subject
property was identified on a map displayed. The request is for a fenced area in the backyard
of the tenant space. Mr. Prestwich stated that a fenced play area is required for a daycare
use. It is regulated by the State and requires a specific amount of square footage per child
to be provided in the form of an outdoor play area. The City Building Official and Mr.
Prestwich visited the site and were shown potential locations for the play area. There are
also building issues inside that need to be addressed as well as access routes. The issues
were all able to be resolved with the exception of the outdoor play area. Areas behind the
building and against the fence were considered.

Notice was sent to the surrounding neighbors, many of whom are tenants of a condominium
project. No comments were received by staff. It was noted that the outdoor play area will
be supervised. A condition was proposed that the landscaping remain and that no trees be
removed. A retaining wall was proposed to level off the slope and provide an area on which
to place a fence. It was noted that some trees had been removed. Staff recommended the
second condition be amended to specify that the applicant shall work with staff to increase
the tree count. What is proposed is an internal vinyl fence. State Code requires the fence
be non-climbable for daycares with a sub-locking gate.

Commissioner Rushton asked if there are any requirements for fence height. Mr. Prestwich
stated that the current ordinance specifies that it be eight-foot masonry. At the time the site
was approved, however, six-foot vinyl fencing was allowed between commercial and
residential projects. The fence that will be constructed at the top of the slope will further
screen the back side of the building from the site.

Commissioner Park asked if the existing fence would count as the north portion. Mr.
Prestwich confirmed that that was his understanding. Commissioner Park asked if there
were any security concerns from the surrounding businesses having access to the play area.
Mr. Prestwich stated that the landlord has approved the plan recognizing that he has other
tenants. It is a major walking route, and the sidewalk leads to the dumpster. The fence will
run along a section of the sidewalk and there will still be a free flow through the back doors
to the sidewalk. The play area, however, will be accessed through the back door, across
the sidewalk, and through a gate into the play area.

The applicant, Dana Lee indicated that she is part owner of Little Geniuses Learning Center.
They need an outdoor play area for the children. There will be no play equipment in that
area. Staff will also be outside with the children at all times and not all of the children will be
outside at the same time. Each classroom will have its own time to be outside. Children will
go outside for 20 to 45 minutes twice a day. She confirmed that the existing fence will be
used as the north boundary.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-21-
8012 “Little Geniuses Learning Center” amending the site plan of an existing
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              8
April 28, 2022

commercial building in the C-G Zone, located at 2464 West 12600 South with the
following conditions:

      1.     Approval is for adding on-site vinyl fencing.

      2.     Landscaping may be altered or removed, and staff will work with the
             applicant to remediate the impacts on the site.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      E.     SITE PLAN, “GOOGLE UTILITY HUT”, A PROPOSED UTILITY
             STRUCTURE ON CITY PROPERTY LOCATED AT 4008 WEST
             INNOVATION DRIVE.

Chair Cluff moved to continue the above item to a later agenda. Commissioner Park
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission. Commissioner Cannon was not present for the vote.

The above item was continued.

      F.     DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, “OLSON PROPERTY”, RIVERTON CITY
             IS PROPOSING A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR APPROXIMATELY
             5.5-ACRES OF PROPERTY IN THE RR-22 ZONE AT 13265 SOUTH
             LOVER’S LANE. APPLICANT- RIVERTON CITY. -CONTINUED FROM
             MARCH 24 & APRIL 14 PC MEETINGS.

Chair Cluff moved to continue the above item to a later agenda. Commissioner Park
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission. Commissioner Cannon was not present for the vote.

The above item was continued.

      G.     TEXT CHANGE, “RIVERTON CITY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND
             PLANS MANUAL” RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING UPDATES AND
             CHANGES TO THE RIVERTON CITY STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS AND
             PLANS MANUAL.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that what is proposed is a text change.
The Planning Commission should make a recommendation to the City Council. It has the
effect of an ordinance in the City and becomes law.

City Engineer, Gordon Miner, reported that the matter is before the Commission because
the Standard Specifications and Plans are part of the General Plan. The draft had been
distributed to the Public Works, Development Services, and Legal Departments. All
comments received had been addressed. He stated that the document is almost purely
technical, and it had been a while since the standards were looked at thoroughly. Mr. Miner
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  9
April 28, 2022

was assigned to revise them, and it became apparent that it was going to be easier to do a
repeal and replace. From a highlight standpoint, he compiled into the document standards
that were found elsewhere. He formalized the submittal requirements and what is needed
for a complete submittal.

Mr. Miner stated that the Flood Control Detention Policy has a planning impact and is
generally that new development takes care of its own impact with regard to flood control.
The City is required to maintain those. The proposed document will change that policy. The
Homeowners Association (“HOA”) will be formed to maintain those small ponds. Another
change was to how the stormwater flood control volume is calculated. Because large tracts
of land do not remain with a few exceptions, the calculation process was streamlined to
make it easier for the development community and Mr. Miner to review. The water quality
volume calculation was also changed.

Mr. Miner next commented on the maximum length of a permanent dead-end water line.
Currently, the City standards do not have a maximum length for a dead-end water line.
There is industry information that supports a maximum length of 600 feet. Mr. Miner stated
that the submittal requirements include what items need to be provided. A question was
raised as to whether the manual will drive additional time or cost on the part of a developer.
Mr. Miner explained that what is outlined is the same as what is already required. It is clearer
and sets forth what is expected of developers. Per State law, the City could have legal
issues if they accept and begin to review incomplete submittals.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter, stated that the Standards and Specifications Manual describes
how to meet the requirements found in the Code. The proposed document is clearer. City
Code Title 18 addresses what needs to be in place before development approval can be
granted. That has not changed and has remained static. He expected smaller scale projects
to be processed more quickly because there will be less expense in terms of engineering
costs for such things as stormwater management. If they go forward with the proposed
model the policies will be more efficient for developers. Mr. Miner stated that the review will
begin when the application is complete.

Commissioner Ruston commented that he would not want to impede the time frames of
developers and create additional costs. Mr. Miner stated that he exercises judgment in
terms of traffic impact studies and whether they are required. Often with small
developments, they are not required. What is required are items that are relevant to the
project and necessary for the engineering.

Commissioner Cannon described projects he had worked on in West Jordan City. His
greatest frustration was that West Jordan is a large city and he ended up working with three
engineers with separate opinions, which caused delays. He was aware of one developer in
Riverton who attends all City meetings with his attorney to ensure that everyone is held
accountable.

Mr. Prestwich stated that what is proposed will not change the associated costs but could
impact processing time. Having standards in place takes any discretion away from staff to
process a request before a complete application has been submitted. It was noted that there
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
April 28, 2022

are a number of instances where they err on the side of the developer by allowing them to
go forward with certain things. Geotech is commonly required but they are not required to
dig into it until they find out that there is a problem. That is not known until they mobilize.

Commissioner Park thought that if the process were more well defined, it would be more
streamlined. What is proposed is an effort to formalize all of the requirements into a single
document. The comment was made that there was a provision in the previous standards
that gave great latitude and discretion to the City Engineer, which has been removed. It was
noted that the City Engineer should not have a lot of discretion.

Commissioner Park asked if a checklist exists. Mr. Miner stated that the checklist was
removed to add more agility in dealing with development. The requirements remain but the
checklist is a reflection of those requirements. It is, however, no longer codified like it was
previously in the standards. The intent was to make sure that in the checklist the nuances
are known. The purpose of the proposed document was to lay out what is expected and
required. It is to be used as a tool to communicate with the development community.

In response to a question raised by Commission Breinholt, Mr. Miner stated that there is a
hierarchy in the Code. There are City standards and references to the American Public
Works Association (“APWA”) standards, specifications, and drawings. He noted that the
larger the document, the more difficult it is to revise and keep updated. Mr. Carter stated
that the City is required by statute to follow the Building Code. That way everyone follows
the same building standards. Section 1.2 is a reiteration of the statute. The APWA has very
specific standards regarding smaller projects. It is of benefit to the development community
to follow something that incorporates the APWA standards.

Commissioner Cannon supported Riverton streamlining the process and being developer
friendly. That does not mean caving to developers but will make the process more efficient.
He was pleased that they are taking steps to improve the process. Mr. Miner identified
instances of hierarchy in the document. Mr. Carter clarified that the City standards that have
been adopted give the development community the assurances that they need.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL of the
Riverton City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual as presented. Commissioner
Rushton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     N/A.

4.     MINUTES

       A.     APRIL 14, 2022.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the meeting minutes for
the April 14, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting as presented. Commissioner
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                11
April 28, 2022

Gilchrist seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

5.    ADJOURNMENT

Commissioner Cannon moved to ADJOURN. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:15 p.m.
