                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                JANUARY 26, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Keith Breinholt                                  Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Gary Cannon
Jon Gilchrist
Evan Matheson
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Pledge was
led by Commissioner Rushton.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     SITE PLAN - AMERICA FIRST CREDIT UNION (“AFCU”), PLZ 22-8032, A
              COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN TO BE LOCATED AT 12653 SOUTH 3600
              WEST. APPLICANT - AWA ENGINEERING

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the staff
report and stated that the request is for Final Commercial Site Plan for America First Credit
Union to be located on the southeast corner of 3600 West and 12600 South. The area map
was displayed. 12600 South on the north is a Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”)
road and 3600 West is a City street. The entire site is 7.9 acres in size but they plan to only
develop a portion of the overall site. Notice was sent to the neighbors with public comments
received. They were included in the packet.

A rendering of the proposed building was displayed. It is situated prominently on the corner.
Adjustments were made to comply with the ordinance with a mostly brick exterior. The site
plan was displayed. The building was pushed to the north and west against the road and
was found to meet the 30-foot minimum setback requirements for the zone. The intent was
for the building to be highly visible. He noted that the architecture plays well off of the
hospital, which is a significant landmark in the area. There are two entrances with one
coming off 3600 West. It is a full UDOT access on 12600 West and has obtained the
necessary permit. The island will be extended to make it right-in/right-out only. Eventually,
it will connect in both directions and be shared. Mr. Prestwich reported that the applicant
does not have a tenant and found a way to preserve the space and flexibility while giving
them a site that works independently.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
January 26, 2023

Mr. Prestwich identified the three-lane drive-thru, one of which is a pass-thru lane. There
will be two kiosks with an audio/visual teller and an ATM. Americans with Disabilities Act
(“ADA”) parking is provided. Mr. Prestwich stated that they are significantly over-parked and
the site meets all commercial site plan requirements.

Fencing issues were discussed. Mr. Prestwich reported that because the site is not a
subdivision, an eight-foot masonry fence is required along the perimeter because of the
incompatible use. For the time being, the existing field fence will remain. The only other
issue with fencing will be the temporary area. Mr. Prestwich stated that the ordinance does
not address temporary fencing on larger pads. What exists falls into the category of other
fencing that the Planning Commission approves and is based on what exists. Staff was
comfortable proposing a six-foot chain link fence, which is an improvement over what exists.
It will be temporary and fairly easy to remove when the rest of the site is developed.

Mr. Prestwich stated that have been conscientious about water use and conserving water.
Areas along 3600 West and 12600 South include two types of rock. It is broken up into
different areas using different sizes and colors. The islands on the interior include a third
rock color. The plantings were also intermixed. An adequate number of trees were
proposed for the site and approximately 300 plantings were included. He was confident that
what is proposed will be a great addition to the City. The area shown in green is native seed
along the temporary fence. The applicants will continue to maintain it as they do the field.

Mr. Prestwich referenced 3600 West and stated that the City or UDOT put sod and trees in
the park strip when 3600 West was tied into 12600 South. The City currently maintains the
park strip. The applicant will take over maintenance responsibilities for that. Currently, sod
is shown but it is not required to remain and could be replaced with rock. The trees would
remain with the exception of a few to increase sight distances.

The Photometric Plan was presented. Mr. Prestwich stated that from the middle of 12600
South, the light emission from the photometrics is zero. The lights are also pointed
downward in accordance with City ordinance. With regard to the trash enclosures, the
materials match the building. There will be an outbuilding for outdoor storage with a roof
and locking door as well as dumpster pads.

Mr. Prestwich stated that four individual canopies are proposed. In the past, canopies have
been large with columns that are similar to a second building where the lower one-third is
required to have brick or stone. The proposed columns will be made of an acrylic material
with lights on the inside. The entire panel will be illuminated at night. The applicant would
like to discuss the requirement for stone or brick along the lower one-third.

Signage issues were discussed. Mr. Prestwich stated that signs are not typically approved
by the Planning Commission, however, if each is treated as a separate structure as they
have with canopies in the past, the signage will meet the ordinance. He invited feedback
from the Commission. Staff recommended approval subject to the conditions set forth in the
staff report.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
January 26, 2023

Commissioner Rushton asked about the fencing on the south that adjoins the church and if
the applicant has been successful in determining whether they will be able to place the fence
on the property line. He was not sure if they had been successful in reaching out to the LDS
Church. He stated that the Area Representative might be more attuned to the situation.
Commissioner Rushton stated that if they have not, an additional item could be added to the
motion to allow a fence-in-a-fence. Mr. Prestwich stated that he would appreciate that as
would the applicant.

Commissioner Rushton commented that at some point 12600 South will be restriped into six
lanes with three in each direction. He asked if consideration had been given to deceleration
off of the stretch between Bangerter Highway and 3600 West. It was reported that UDOT
makes that determination. Currently, UDOT does not require that.

Commissioner Rushton asked about 3600 West and if there are any plans to widen it or the
intersection at 12600 South. The Project Engineer indicated that currently there are no plans
to widen it. He noted that that is an issue for them since as UDOT shuts off their left turn
access on 12600 South, 3600 West will bear the brunt of most of the trips coming into and
out of the development. The credit union site will likely not be overly impacted but they will
struggle with the entire site being developed and pressure being put on 3600 West.
Widening, however, may not be the solution to manage that.

Commissioner Park expressed concern with the six-foot temporary chain link fence and
asked if there was a stipulation regarding what it will look like. He commented that temporary
construction site chain link fencing would not be acceptable. Chair Cluff asked about the
temporary fencing, specifically if there is a time limit. Mr. Prestwich stated that there is no
definition in the ordinance and it depends on what occurs on the rest of the site. Some
temporary fencing only stays in place for a little while, while some is in place for years.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked about the chain link fence and stated that it seems that in
many areas where there is partial development of a parcel, he did not recall seeing a fence
as delineation. He questioned why a fence was required in this case. Mr. Prestwich
explained that because there is no additional planning for the area, some of the sites are
part of a Master Site Plan. In this case, the time window is unknown.

Jake Tate from Anderson Wahlen & Associates, was present on behalf of America First
Credit Union. He gave his address as 2010 North Redwood Road in Salt Lake City. Mr.
Tate reported that AFCU has owned the property for over 10 years and they are excited to
move forward and start developing it. Appreciation was expressed to staff for their
assistance. With regard to fencing, AFCU volunteered to provide it since something similar
has been done on other sites. AFCU purchases property because they want to be there
and are not investors. For that reason, they did not subdivide the property. They would like
to be in a location where they can be in the future and make sure that they can develop a
well-thought-out, high-quality development.

Mr. Tate stated that there is a branch on 3500 South and 3600 West in West Valley where
there was a similar situation. The quality of the fence was shown in a picture, it has a
cemented post and a top rail. It is a full chain link fence and not temporary. It is a well-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     4
January 26, 2023

constructed barrier that is well-maintained. The intent was to prevent cars from being driven
off the dead ends of the property. They keep it fenced off so that it remains in good condition
and so that they control it. They are committed to installing the fence and were happy to do
so. They would like to place it on the property line if allowed to do so.

Mr. Tate reported that they have been in discussions with the neighbor and indicated that a
gap was created when the neighbor developed his subdivision five or six years ago. There
is now a two-foot gap. They were happy to concede that land to him. AFCU is not going to
change the property line and will enter into a Boundary Line Agreement with the neighbor to
give him two feet on that side of the fence. They have also been in discussions with
Scooters.

Circulation issues were discussed. Mr. Tate stated that underground tubes are not required
by the credit union. It is a stand-alone system with a screen. Customers will be able to
communicate with a banker in the building and the entire transaction takes place there. He
commented that this is the future of financial institutions. It allows a lot of flexibility and for
the parking to be placed near the building. He noted that this is the first branch that will have
the latest technology. He also showed a rendering of what the panel will look like when it is
lit.

Commissioner Ruston asked about the fencing on the south side. Mr. Tate stated that he
had not spoken with anyone from the LDS Church but he needed to check with the other
engineer in the office who is working more closely on that. He would also touch base with
the broker.

A photo of fencing used on a nearby project was shown. Mr. Tate stated that it keeps people
out and allows them to access and maintain the property. Developers have already
approached them about the front three pads and they have users that want to potentially
locate them there. He noted that there is interest.

Commissioner Park asked if medical office use was envisioned. Mr. Tate anticipated the
three parcels along the front as being commercial retail users. Along the rear, he expected
medical offices and the like. They have received several offers over the years but the zoning
in the area makes that more difficult. With regard to the fence line on the south, he clarified
that a masonry wall will be required. Commissioner Rushton explained that on the south
side, some trees fell over and the applicant was not able to make contact. They eventually
came back and did a fence within a fence in order to start moving forward with the project.
Mr. Tate stated that they are happy to reach out. Commissioner Park stated that a clause
could be added that if the project is ready to move forward and they have not been able to
reach an agreement, there could be a fence within a fence. This option enabled a previous
applicant to start the project. It would be a more substantial fence consisting of a column
and wrought iron. On the south side, it was pulled in four feet from the property line. By
code, a fence within a fence is not allowed without this property owner’s permission. That
was offered tonight to expedite the project.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 5
January 26, 2023

Kenneth Failor, the neighbor across the street, asked about the exit and entrance on 12600
South. He stated that his fence has been run through many times over the years. The traffic
is unbearable and it is nearly impossible to get out off of Mountain View Drive. He asked
what will be across the street from the exit and entrance on 12600 South. Commissioner
Rushton stated that they are extending the island so that people coming onto 12600 South
have to make a right turn and cannot go straight across 12600 South. Mr. Failor met with
UDOT and was informed that by 2032 and 2040 they widen the road to six lanes but not
before unless something changes. He suggested that the traffic concerns on 12600 South
be addressed. Chair Cluff stated that the City’s hands are somewhat tied because it is a
UDOT road. Mr. Failor reported that there is a contractual arrangement with UDOT and
Riverton City. He stated that it is his right by law to obtain a copy of the document showing
what agreements were made on 12600 South.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Gilchrist liked the proposed design and commented that many credit union
buildings have been built in the southwest corner of the valley in the last 10 years or so. The
drive-thru canopies are heavy and large and not the most aesthetically pleasing. He liked
the idea of pushing them to the back of the site and reducing the size substantially. He also
liked the lighting and signage and considered it a good look.

Commissioner Park asked how far the island extension will go and if Mountain View Drive
is 3450 West.

Commissioner Cannon acknowledged Mr. Failor who has been a Riverton resident since
1973. He was thanked for his comments. Commissioner Cannon stated that were he a
neighbor, he would prefer a bank or credit union with limited hours to a 24-hour convenience
store.

Commissioner Cannon moved to APPROVE PLZ-22-8032, Commercial Site Plan for
“America First (AFCU)” located at 12653 South 3600 West subject to the following
conditions:

       1.     Site Plan Improvements and Building shall be consistent with the plans
              presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.

       2.     The applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

       3.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with the Riverton
              City Standards and ordinances, and with the recommendations of the
              Riverton City Engineer.

       4.     The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
              Management Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances.

       5.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction grading on the site.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
January 26, 2023


       6.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City Standards and ordinances, including the International Building and
              Fire Codes.

       7.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

       8.     Rooftop mechanical shall be screened.

       9.     Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

       10.    The dumpster enclosure shall have solid gates and the gates and
              enclosure shall be of similar color and materials to the building.

       11.    The park strip on 3600 West shall be irrigated and maintained by the
              applicant and its successors.

       12.    A temporary fence shall be installed as shown on the Site Plans prior to
              occupancy of the building.

       13.    If the applicant is not able to get permission from the south property
              owner for the fence, they have permission to install a parallel fence on
              that side.

Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       B.     COMMUNITY SCALE PLAN, BLOCK SCALE PLAN - VILLAGE AT SOUTH
              MOUNTAIN EAST, PLZ-22- 8034, A COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT TO BE
              LOCATED AT 4012 WEST 13400 SOUTH IN THE SLR SPECIAL ZONE.
              APPLICANT - AWA ENGINEERING

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the project is part of the SLR Master
Development Agreement (“MDA”). The property is located on the corner of Old Liberty Way.
SLR MDA properties have a different review process and start with the Community Scale
Plan, move to a Block Scale Plan (“BSP”), and follow up with a Detailed Plan. The MDA
and zoning allow the Community Scale Plan (“CSP”) and the BSP to be combined. The
applicant then comes back for a Detailed Plan. SLR is the master developer and must
approve the site layout. For commercial, they need to approve the square footage, the
building architecture, and landscaping. The letter was provided in the packet. What they
have not done will be reserved until the final site plan. With regard to architecture, they can
hold to the ordinance or SLR can make additional requirements.

An area map was displayed. Within the next few meetings, it was anticipated that the first
detailed plan for Village West will be presented. The timing of various elements of the project
was described. Village East is a corner with great visibility off of Bangerter Highway and
13400 South. There are two power lines and two gas lines coming through the property
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    7
January 26, 2023

from the northwest to the southeast. There is also a Kern River gas facility in the area with
two 18-inch City water lines nearby. It was noted that the applicant did a good job of planning
the site.

Mr. Prestwich referenced the CSP and stated that it and the BSP have the exact same
footprint. Both are being approved at the same time. There is a 30-foot easement for water
lines that nearly cut the parcel in half. The Phasing Plan shows the backbone infrastructure
and that the interior roads will be built first. The other phases could come in any sequence
desired by the applicant. If one starts before another, they may have to change the detailed
plan to make it work logistically. However, with the backbone infrastructure and roads, they
should be able to make it work when the pad owner is ready to move forward. Everything
inside will be privately maintained and is a private street or driveway. No City maintenance
will be required.

The Landscape Plan was presented. Mr. Prestwich stated that it is nearly impossible to
plant on top of the Kern River gas line easement, which may impact their ability to plant
trees. That will be addressed with the detailed plans. The engineer is AWA who has been
involved in other recent projects. They will also be doing some of the detailed plans in the
area as they come in. The first BSP and CSP Plans that went through them provided
experience in how to work with SLR and other property owners. This one went much
smoother. The hope was that they can continue moving forward.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the matter was noticed as a public hearing and no comments were
received. Staff recommended approval subject to the conditions set forth in the staff report.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked if UDOT has reviewed the plan. Mr. Prestwich responded
that he shared the plans with UDOT representatives when the project was first submitted as
well as the plan for the pond. They have been coordinating with SLR, the utilities, and the
property owner. His understanding was that the widening and any frontage improvements
will not go beyond the Questar/Kern River facility.

Commissioner Gilchrist stated that in his limited experience with Rocky Mountain Power and
Kern River, they are massive/complicated utilities. This pipeline will supply nearly all of the
natural gas that comes out of Wyoming to California. Almost nothing may be constructed
over the corridor. He asked Mr. Prestwich if he was confident that they can get the utility
companies to agree to this level of development on their easements.

Commissioner Matheson asked what controls the area to the east where the utilities are
located to ensure that it looks attractive and who is responsible for maintaining it.
Mr. Prestwich stated that it will be the responsibility of the property owner, SLR who will likely
maintain it as it is now as an empty field. He explained that there is a portion of the property
that is not in any easements that could potentially be developed.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the access on 13400 South is right-in/right-out.
Mr. Prestwich confirmed that it is. The one on 4050 West on the south was determined to
be a full intersection.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
January 26, 2023

Commissioner Breinholt asked about the plans for 13400 South and Bangerter Highway,
which include a lot of rerouting of utilities of various sizes. Specifically, he was concerned
about the sewer being rerouted north because of problems with digging down Bangerter at
that point. He asked if that will conflict with what is proposed. Mr. Prestwich responded that
years ago the sewer and the City put sleeves underneath Bangerter Highway. He confirmed
that there are several utility relocations ahead of this project. This area will come out to
4000 West and down to 13400 South and out. That was shown on the BSP.

The applicant, Jake Tate from AWA stated that the project has been a long time coming. He
thanked Mr. Prestwich for his assistance and stated that the process has been unique. He
reported that across the street on the west side, there are five parcels all of which are moving
forward. That side was expected to be built out or under construction before the end of the
year. On their side, three tenants are under contract for three at the corner of the L. The
one on the north side of the southern access has obtained SLR approval. Of the 10 lots for
the two parcels, eight were moving forward.

Mr. Tate stated that the center of the southern driveway is about 330 feet from the north
right-of-way line of 13400 South. The assumption is that when SLR comes in the future,
they will drive more traffic with the acreage that they own to the north. At that time, there
will likely be a median there.

With regard to utilities, Mr. Tate stated that they have met with Kern River several times and
have the plan set. They have used their five to 10-page design manual and all of the utilities
meet that requirement. It is currently under review with comments expected by the
beginning of February. They will likely require the applicant to pothole a few of the locations
to confirm the depth. He noted that there are two 36-inch gas lines. The site plan was
adjusted so that there are no structures over the water line and they are outside of the
easement.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-8034, “Village at
South Mountain East” Community-Scale Plan & Block Scale Plan, in the SLR Special
Development District subject to the following conditions:

       1.     The Community-Scale Plan shall comply with the Master Development
              Agreement (“MDA”) and the Suburban Land Reserve Specific
              Development District.

       2.     A Detailed Plan (“DP”) for each phase shall be reviewed by staff and
              approved by the Planning Commission before construction may begin.

       3.     The First Detailed Plan (“Phase 1”) must include the proposed
              subdivision plat, and the subdivision must be recorded before work may
              commence on the other phases.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              9
January 26, 2023

      4.     Shared Access or Cross Access agreements for all internal properties
             and other properties to the east shall be formalized and recorded with
             the first Detailed Plan.

      5.     Each Detailed Plan application shall include an approval letter from SLR
             (“The Master Developer”).

      6.     Architecture and landscaping shall meet the requirements of the MDA
             and will be reviewed for each building during the Detailed Plan
             application.

      7.     If the regional pond or other drainage facilities are not available at the
             time of the Detailed Plan application, the Detailed plan must include a
             plan for temporary stormwater retention.

      8.     Detailed Plan Applications shall include approvals from utility
             companies including but not limited to Kern River Gas and Rocky
             Mountain Power.

Commissioner Breinholt expressed concern about the relocation of the sewer lines and
utilities under 13400 South and Bangerter Highway. It was noted that a lot of research was
taking place and the contractor will be required to address any issues. The City cannot
place utilities on private property without an agreement in place. It will be up to UDOT and
whoever builds that facility to work with the property owners if they are not placed in the
location designated by the City.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Matheson. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     ELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE-CHAIR.

Procedural issues were discussed. Commissioner Cannon commented that someone who
is nominated should not feel obligated to accept the appointment if they are not comfortable
doing so.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the culture on the Commission previously was that the Chair should
not make motions and in some cases not vote, which is not the case. The ordinance is clear
that the Chair can make motions and should vote. It was noted that Troy Rushton and Gary
Cannon have served as Chair and Vice Chair. Shelly Cluff has served as Chair only.

Jon Gilchrist was nominated to serve as Chair. Commissioner Gilchrist was concerned
about accepting the nomination due to his work schedule this coming year.

Commissioner Matheson was nominated to serve as Vice-Chair. Commissioner Matheson
accepted the nomination.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 10
January 26, 2023


Commissioner Rushton stated that in the event the Chair and Vice-Chair are not present at
a meeting, any member can step in and act as the Chair.

Commissioner Matheson moved to NOMINATE Jon Gilchrist to serve as Chair for
2023. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Park. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

Commissioner Rushton moved to NOMINATE Evan Matheson to serve as Vice-Chair
for 2023. The motion was seconded by Chair Cluff. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

       A.     TRAINING - THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS.

City Planner, Lisa Halversen provided an overview of the City’s development process
consisting of the steps that take place from the time a developer has an idea until it becomes
a buildable product. A helpful first step is for a developer to contact staff and schedule a
Developer Review Committee (“DRC”) Meeting before investing a lot of time and money into
their project. There they have an opportunity to meet with staff from Planning, Engineering,
Building, and the Fire Department to discuss the general feasibility of the project and identify
any potential problems. The developer is welcome to come back to a second DRC Meeting
if needed.

The second step is the application process where the developer submits an application,
which includes the complete plans for review. The Planning Department ensures that they
have all of the necessary documents and upload them to Bluebeam (a team-based software
product) and begin the plan review. It allows staff to review different documents
simultaneously and collaborate with review comments that can be viewed on the page.
When all of the departments have commented, the redlines are compiled into an email that
is sent to the applicant who then has an opportunity to revise and correct the plans and
resubmit them. The initial review takes about one month after which each new submittal
takes about two weeks. Usually, a project takes three or four reviews before it is ready for
Planning Commission consideration.

Ms. Halversen identified City staff that reviews each plan and what they are looking for. She
and Mr. Prestwich conduct the Planning Review and review the application, the site plan,
parking, landscaping, setbacks, screening, zoning, open space, Americans with Disabilities
Act (“ADA”) compliance, and fencing.

City Engineer, Matt Cassell, reviews engineering, Code compliance, traffic, Geotech,
drainage, and utility coordination. Cal McDonald from the Water Department reviews water
issues. Public Works Geographic Information Systems (“GIS”) Technician, Alex Reyes, is
responsible for addressing and making all of the City’s maps that are available online. Chief
Building Official, Mark Smith, does not review every plan but gives an overview since he will
have oversight when it gets to the building phase. He looks at the plans upfront to identify
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 11
January 26, 2023

items that may become an issue later. Unified Fire Authority Fire Marshal, Lynn Egbert and
Tom Beasley who is over Flood Control and Stormwater also conduct a review. Community
Development Director, Jason Lethbridge, serves as the City’s Liaison to the elected officials
and provides guidance where needed. City Attorney, Ryan Carter, gives legal advice and
deals with Development Agreements, easements, Covenants Codes and Restrictions
(“CC&Rs”), and reimbursement.

The project is then ready to move forward to the Planning Commission. When all staff
departments have verified that the plans comply with City Code, the project is put on the
Planning Commission agenda. A synopsis of the Planning Commission's duties was
provided. They are tasked with helping the City Council do the General Plan and zoning
maps, serve as the land use authority that administers the Development Code Title 18, have
the authority to approve or deny subdivisions, site plans, and conditional use permits, and
any other matters that the City Council chooses to delegate to them.

When a matter is before the Planning Commission, in most cases staff brings a project
forward with a positive recommendation. They also include conditions of approval that
ensure that they know what further action is needed on each item. In some cases, an
applicant has a legal right to insist that their project be placed on the Commission's agenda.
If this is before staff is ready to recommend approval, they may recommend denial. Planning
Commissioners determine if an application meets the City’s ordinance and standards. The
Commission can exercise its discretion in specific areas identified in the Code such as
architecture, landscaping, and fencing. If the agenda item is legislative it goes on to the City
Council after a recommendation is given by the Planning Commission.                       Their
recommendation may or may not be considered by the City Council in their decision. If the
item is a subdivision, site plan, or Conditional Use Permit, the Planning Commission makes
the final decision of approval, denial, or continuance.

Ms. Halversen reported that once a project is approved by the Planning Commission, staff
will verify that all of the conditions have been met by the applicant. They can then apply for
a Building Permit where oversight moves to the Building Department. A team effort is
required to get projects from concept to reality.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the development process and stated that a few months
ago he had the opportunity to attend an envisioning session with Council Member McKay,
various developers, and others. One of the takeaways was that there is a lot of inconsistency
from community to community. One of those is the timeline. He had observed over the past
few years that there are a number of applicants that bring forward a Development
Agreement, which seemed to provide a clear path forward. He asked if that is something
they should expect to see more of in the future.

Mr. Carter explained that when addressing Development Agreements, one important
contract principle is that an agreement to agree is not enforceable. The significant reason
is that when formulating a contract unless all of the terms are set forth in writing, including
engineered drawings and exhibits, they tend to agree on something. If there is a
misunderstanding, the value of the Development Agreement is in question. He explained
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                12
January 26, 2023

that a Development Agreement will lock in and give the developer assurances after they
have specified how they envision the project working.

Assurances can be provided through a Development Agreement when they are looking at
something like the Conditional Use Permit process for a private lane. The Development
Agreement can provide certainty in terms of outcome but requires additional layers of
approval. It would be of equal dignity to a zoning ordinance if something is done that could
be viewed as an exception to how the prevailing Code would ordinarily apply to the property.
He hesitated to agree that a Development Agreement is viewed as something that gives the
potential to streamline a process. They also work in situations involving a unique property.
Applicants want to get through the approval process and be confident that approval will be
granted. They take a risk when they pay professionals to do work that is ultimately rejected.
A Development Agreement is a tool that is used sparingly and is best used when other tools
are less efficient. He noted that ultimately the City Council makes the decision on
Development Agreements.

Commissioner Cannon reported that he has developed over 50 subdivisions. Often
developers meet with a city’s staff but never come back for a second meeting because of
the complicated process. Mr. Carter stated that cities have different approaches to
processing an application. Commissioner Cannon stated that Riverton City does not have
a bad reputation with respect to the process. Developers deal with 7 to 10 different entities
at any given time and one of them is the City. They work with the neighbors, the owners,
utility companies, engineers, architects, contractors, etc. All work together in an effort to
reach a solution in the end. In addition, the hope is that the market holds while they are
going through the process. The biggest challenge for him as a developer has been
accountability.

Commissioner Rushton stated that there was a conversation in an adjacent city where no
thought was given to what is taking place in other communities in terms of development.

Mr. Carter reported that previously he worked for West Jordan City in their Planning and
Development Services Department. He found that the best way to keep the city out of
litigation was by monitoring the engineers for consistency. There was an iteration process
that went back and forth between various engineers which became a headache. The
engineers were not aligned and did not discuss the various projects they were reviewing.
Some also had differing viewpoints on what was considered a fair exaction. His goal was to
create more consistency, which was accomplished by hiring someone to keep track of the
status of an application so that it would continue to move within the system. Mr. Carter
stated that there are numerous development bureaucracies with each having its own style.
Riverton City has hired outside auditors to examine the process. They found that it was
overall a healthy organization and operating according to standards that are common
statewide.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the Bluebeam software allows him and Ms. Halversen to know
the status of any plan under review within the City at any given time. Records are also kept
of conversations that take place, which results in accountability on staff’s part. The issue of
consistency was discussed and acknowledged to be critical.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting          13
January 26, 2023


5.    MINUTES

There were no minutes to be reviewed.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:30 p.m.
