                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                 MARCH 23, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Jon Gilchrist, Chair                             Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Troy Rushton                                     Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Gary Cannon                                      Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Shelly Cluff                                     Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Evan Matheson


1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Vice-chair Evan Matheson called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     SEEHUSEN SUBDIVISION, PLZ-22-1009, A PROPOSED 2-LOT
              SUBDIVISION LOCATED AT 11905 SOUTH 2700 WEST. APPLICANT -
              LANDER SEEHUSEN.

City Planner, Lisa Halversen, reported that the Planning Commission will make an
administrative decision on this item after the public hearing. The subject property is 1.1
acres in size and zoned RR-22. The applicant is proposing to subdivide the property into
two lots. Notice was sent to the neighbors and no comments were received by staff. The
plat showed the private lane that was approved last June by the Planning Commission. A
new lot was to be created with the existing home remaining on the second lot. A new home
was to be built at the rear of the property with access to the private lane that was previously
approved. The proposed subdivision will not change the zoning. Ms. Halversen explained
that the site plan showed the access on the west side to 2700 West. An existing private
lane runs along the north of the property.

The Drainage and Grading Plan was presented. The applicants will capture their own
stormwater and have a pond on the property that is large enough to hold all anticipated
drainage. The previous minutes from June 2022, when the private lane application was
approved, were provided. The matter is being heard by the Commission at this meeting as
a result of the condition that the applicants have the subdivision approved prior to
constructing the private lane. They are now seeking that approval.

A question was raised regarding the irrigation ditch that runs through the property and if the
new lot has rights to the irrigation canal or if it is protected in an easement. Ms. Halversen
indicated that it has gone through the proper review. Condition number seven specifies that
existing ditches shall be piped or abandoned. City Engineer, Matt Cassel, explained that
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   2
March 23, 2023

the proposal is to remove all of the piping so that it does not extend beyond the subject
property. It will be disconnected at the channel in the street and will not be used as irrigation
for either property in the future. Once it is removed, it will be connected to pressurized
irrigation off of the City’s system.

Commissioner Rushton recalled that at the first hearing, Chair Gilchrist asked for
confirmation that both lots meet the minimum size requirement. Commissioner Rushton
also asked if any of the adjacent parcels have animal rights. City Planner, Tim Prestwich,
reported that all of the adjoining properties are zoned RR-22. For that reason, there is no
fencing requirement. It was noted that some existing fencing is called out in the plans that
will remain.

Commissioner Cannon asked if there was a way to eliminate putting an extra road out onto
2700 West. Ms. Halversen explained that that question came up during the review process
but the north property owners were not willing to share access.

In response to a question raised, the applicant, Lander Seehusen, stated that he is a
builder/developer. He is purchasing Lot 102 from the owner of Lot 101 and plans to build a
home on the property and sell it. He is currently under contract to purchase the property.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton asked staff if they received a last-minute email from one of the
neighbors. Staff indicated that no public comments were received by phone or email.

Commissioner Cluff moved to APPROVE PLZ-22-1009 “Seehusen Subdivision”, to be
located at 11905 South 2700 West with the following conditions:

       1.     Address any outstanding Riverton City Staff redline comments on the
              plans.

       2.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with
              Riverton City Standards and ordinances, and with the recommendations
              of the Riverton City Engineering Division.

       3.     The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
              applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

       4.     Any necessary easements or agreements on the property shall be
              recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder.

       5.     The site and structure shall comply with all applicable standards and
              ordinances of the City, including the International Building and Fire
              Code.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                3
March 23, 2023

       6.     The private lane shall be named with an approved name and the
              developer shall install a street sign at the entrance to the private lane.

       7.     Existing ditches shall be piped or abandoned and overhead utilities shall
              be buried according to City Code prior to Building Permits being issued
              in the subdivision.

       8.     Demonstrate coordination with north adjoiners prior to relocating the
              existing fence to the property line.

Council Member Matheson seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       B.     BERGSTROM CUP PRIVATE LANE, PLZ-23-2010, A CONDITIONAL USE
              PERMIT FOR A PRIVATE LANE LOCATED AT 1933 WEST 11800 SOUTH.
              APPLICANT - KEVIN BERGSTROM.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a private lane to
serve one lot. The property location was identified. Public notice was sent out and no public
comments were received. Previously, a portion of the property was carved off and deeded
to a neighbor. The lot lines were also adjusted between the front and back lots to allow Lot
101 to be large enough to develop. A recorded plat showed an existing private lane that
serves an existing home. Another existing home has access to 11800 South.

The applicant’s intent was to create a private lane to serve a lot on the backside. There is
a 20-foot right-of-way but not necessarily a paved surface. That was of concern since the
current ordinance requires 20 feet of paved surface for two users. The matter would need
to come back to the Commission for review and approval of any subdivision. Mr. Prestwich
noted that the ordinance addresses two users on a private lane. If Lot 2 were to try to
subdivide in the future, the entire length of the lane would need to be brought up to a higher
standard.

With regard to private lanes, the Planning Commission should address whether it qualifies
for a private lane based on the Code criteria. Staff believes it does. The property cannot
be subdivided without a public street and the development on the private lane does not block
any public rights-of-way.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the hard surface requirements and if crushed asphalt
complies. Mr. Prestwich stated that it is not considered a hard surface and must be asphalt
or concrete. City Attorney Ryan Carter stated that the Fire Code requires that to have an
accessible private lane the surface must be impermeable and capable of supporting the
weight of a fire pumper. It was determined that crushed asphalt is not sufficient and does
not meet that requirement.

It was noted that the owner of the other lot must be willing to allow access and a perpetual
easement to the new lot. The same would have to be documented in the Subdivision
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               4
March 23, 2023

Application. A Homeowners Association (“HOA”) or Codes, Covenants, and Restrictions
(“CC&Rs”) must be put in place to ensure that the lane is properly maintained.

The applicant, Kevin Bergstrom, reported that the existing home to the south is owned by
his brother and they will maintain the private lane. When Mr. Bergstrom’s brother got
permission to build the existing road, he was told that only road base was required. It was
paved and is narrower than 20 feet. They were willing to expand the lane to the required 20
feet. Mr. Bergstrom stated that the development will be a good addition to the neighborhood.
He commented that the existing structures are an eyesore and will all be razed.

Commissioner Cannon asked Mr. Bergstrom how long his family has resided in Riverton.
Mr. Bergstrom stated that they moved in in 1963. His parents resided on the property until
his mother passed away. His father passed away in January 2023. Commissioner Cannon
stated that both were amazing people. He appreciated the legacy Mr. Bergstrom’s family
has left in Riverton. Mr. Bergstrom stated that the existing home on 11800 South is occupied
by his sister and will remain and be remodeled. Mr. Bergstrom stated that his brother, Craig,
owns the home on Lot 102.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved to APPROVE PLZ-23-2010 “Bergstrom Private
Lane”, to be located at 1933 West 11800 South with the following conditions:

      1.     The private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on
             private lanes.

      2.     Approval is for one (1) additional lot access onto an existing private lane
             for a total of two (2) lots accessing the private lane.

      3.     The private lane shall be at least a 20-foot wide drivable surface.

      4.     The private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according
             to the standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.

      5.     The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the
             standards of the Unified Fire Authority (“UFA”) and Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.

      6.     The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and
             emergency response.

      7.     The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance. Shall
             conform to Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not
             limited to width, number of driveways, and separation distance between
             driveways.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
March 23, 2023


       8.     The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval from the Planning
              Commission prior to any construction commencing on the subdivision.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       C.     M-1 USES, CODE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-23-5004, A PROPOSAL TO
              AMEND THE PERMITTED USES IN THE M-1 (MANUFACTURING LIGHT
              INDUSTRIAL) ZONE, RIVERTON MUNICIPAL CODE 18.95.010, TO
              ALLOW STORAGE UNITS. APPLICANT - DUSTIN JENSEN.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the above matter will go to the City Council for a final decision
and will change City Code. It is similar to a rezone. The decision will impact the M-1 Zone.
A text change is being proposed by Dustin Jensen who has worked with staff to implement
language from the C-G Zone. It allows for a zero lot line or for a structure to be constructed
with no setbacks from the property line for storage unit facilities where the structures are
being incorporated in perimeter fencing or enclosure of some or all of the site. A Conditional
Use Permit in conjunction with site plan approval is required for zero lot line development.
Where adjacent to residential zones, criteria for consideration may include the proposed
building height and property line control of runoff and drainage.

A rendering of the subject property was displayed. The applicant is interested in developing
storage units along the fence line where people could pull in to utilize more of his property.
Mr. Jensen would like to amend the M-1 standards. Currently, the setbacks in the M-1 Zone
call for commercial and industrial buildings to be located no closer to residential district
boundaries of 60 feet. Side yards adjoining each residential use shall be no less than the
height of the building but no less than 50 feet. The intent was to place the storage units on
the property line with the back side of the storage unit acting as the fence to separate the
properties.

The zoning map was displayed and showed areas of the City that are zoned M-1. The
difference between a rezone and a zone text change was described. Procedural issues
were discussed. It was noted that the Manufacturing/Light Industrial Zone is to provide areas
and appropriate locations where light manufacturing, industrial processes, and warehousing
may be established with sensitive relationships to adjacent agricultural, residential, and
commercial land uses. The question tonight was if a zero lot line with an architectural wall
acting as the fence meets the purpose and intent of the Manufacturing Zone. It was noted
that there are instances where storage units are adjacent to residential properties.

Commissioner Rushton referenced the aerial map and identified areas where a zero-lot line
would be appropriate. Mr. Prestwich addressed height and was of the understanding that
the maximum height in the M-1 Zone is 50 feet. Commissioner Rushton asked if that would
be considered with no notice to the neighbors. Possible options available to the applicant
were discussed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
March 23, 2023

Commissioner Matheson reported that he owns some farmland and if someone proposed to
put something next to his property he would be happy because it would provide a fence to
keep his horses in. He has seen nice homes going in in the area and feels it is wrong to
consider proceeding in instances where neighbors have no input. He expressed strong
opposition to the proposed change.

Commissioner Cannon felt that the proposed change would infringe on the personal property
rights of residents.

Chair Gilchrist stated that while the storage unit land use is not necessarily light industrial,
perhaps the storage unit would be more acceptable with a zero lot line. The point of the M-1
Zone is to allow light industrial land uses with appropriate setbacks adjacent to residential,
other commercial, and agricultural areas. He shared the opinion of Commissioners
Matheson and Cannon.

The applicant’s representative, David Mortensen, from Civil Science was present and stated
that the proposed setback is 10 or 20 feet. He is proposing to develop RV storage units on
the property. He is unable to use the east line because there is a 50-foot easement. While
the applicant does not need a height of 50 feet, he would like to have as much height as
possible. Access would be along the west side.

Commissioner Cluff asked Mr. Mortensen if the storage will be accessed through the car
wash parking lot. Mr. Mortensen confirmed that it would be through the west side.
Mr. Prestwich clarified that if the zone text change were approved the request would have
to be reviewed again by the Planning Commission for site plan approval.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Chair Gilchrist commented that it seems strange to consider amending the Land Use
Ordinance for one applicant. Mr. Carter explained that anyone has the right to petition the
Planning Commission and request an Amendment to the Land Use Ordinance. An applicant
pays the fee and has the right to have the matter vetted before the Planning Commission
and City Council.

Commissioner Cluff commented that currently the setback is 50 feet and asked about the
logic behind that. Mr. Prestwich responded that the M-1 Zone is an old zone and it has not
been updated as frequently as some of the other zones. Because different uses are allowed
in the area, the thought was to pull them back even further from a property line. There is
also a building height limit of up to 50 feet in the zone. He commented that changing the
setbacks across all properties for all uses could be dangerous. The storage units
themselves may be different at 10 or 20 feet with a max height.

Mr. Carter explained that the concept of the zero lot line and storage units came up to make
a project work off of Redwood Road. There have not been many since then but they have
been problematic at times. It is a touchy subject in this circumstance where a change to the
M-1 zone after residential properties have moved in next to it.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
March 23, 2023


Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
the requested amendment to the M-1 Zone due to the following:

       1.     Incompatibility with the stated applicant’s zero lot line and residential.

       2.     It is concerning to see a specific text amendment for a specific property
              as there is no notice required to the surrounding property owners.

       3.     In the existing M-1 Zone, there have been a number of projects that went
              through due process.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Matheson.            Vote on motion:
Commissioner Matheson-Aye, Commissioner Rushton-Aye, Commissioner Cluff-
Aye, Commissioner Cannon-Aye, Chair Gilchrist-Nay. The motion passed 4-to-1.

       D.     COMMERCIAL USES, CODE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-23-5003,
              PROPOSES AMENDMENTS TO 18.65, 18.70, 18.75, 18.80, 18.85, AND
              18.100 TO REMOVE LANGUAGE ADDRESSING COMMERCIAL USES IN
              EACH ZONE AND DEFER TO THE TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES.
              APPLICANT - RIVERTON CITY.

Ms. Halversen reported that the above matter came before the Planning Commission
previously at which time they were asked to recommend an amendment to the Table of
Commercial Uses. There is a lot of confusion when people ask if certain uses are allowed
in specific zones. There are also often conflicts between the Table of Uses and the written
text. The Code specifies that the written text takes precedence over the tables in the event
of a conflict. What was done last month was to combine the two Tables of Commercial
Uses. There was one for all of the zones with the exception of the PCC. The Planning
Commission recommended they combine the two tables.

The next step is to eliminate all references to commercial uses in each commercial zone
description. In the Downtown Commercial Zone, the two tables of commercial uses were
combined into one but there is still the written text, which supersedes the table that was
approved. The written text still calls out various uses as being permitted or conditional. Staff
proposed to strike all instances in all zones and replace it with alternative language.

Chair Gilchrist asked about storage units and referenced the previous matter addressed by
the Commission. His understanding was that because it is the M-1 Zone and not CG, it
would have been permitted. Ms. Halversen stated that it would have been permitted or
conditional depending on the location.

The proposed changes were presented. Commissioner Cluff referenced the conditional
uses being stricken in the Commercial Neighborhood Zone and stated that they have
temporary and seasonal uses. She did not see a comparable to that in the table.
Ms. Halversen reported that they updated the table and condensed the contents.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          8
March 23, 2023

Mr. Prestwich indicated that it may not show up in the Table of Uses and may need to be
addressed.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of the PLZ-23-5003, amending Title 18 by removing language addressing
Commercial Uses in each zone (18.65, 18.70, 18.75, 18.80, 18.85, and 18.100) and defer
to the Table of Commercial Uses, as presented, with the caveat that Staff examine the
amendments to verify that temporary uses such as fireworks and Christmas tree sales
have been properly allocated with the Code section that addresses such uses. Chair
Gilchrist seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    None.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:00 p.m.
