                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            January 9, 2025
Subject:         “Joseph White Text Amendment,” PLZ-24-5006, Requested Amendment to
                 the “Table of Commercial Uses” for Reception Center in the C-N Zone.
                 Applicant- Joseph White.


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of application PLZ-24-5006, “Joseph
White Text Amendment” by amending the Riverton City Table of Commercial Uses such that
the category “Reception Center” becomes Conditional in the Commercial Neighborhood (C-
N) Zone.

Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of application PLZ-24-5006, “Joseph
White Text Amendment” thus keeping the existing Table of Uses.


Background

This is a public hearing for a requested Zoning Text Change to Chapter 18.90 of the Riverton
City Code. This application was brought by a property owner who owns property in Riverton
City which is zoned C-N (Commercial Neighborhood).

A zone text change is a legislative recommendation by the Planning Commission. City Council
will have the final decision.

The applicant is requesting a change to the City’s Table of Commercial Uses found in Chapter
18.90 of Riverton City Code. The table lists several commercial uses and designates these
uses as P- Permitted, C- Conditional, or NP- Not Permitted. One of the uses listed is
“Reception Center” as shown below:
Where the land use “Reception Center” is a Conditional Use in the C-G and C-D zones, Not
Permitted in the C-N and C-PO zones and Permitted in the C-R and PCC zones.

The applicant is a requesting the Table of Commercial Uses be modified to make “Reception
Center” a Conditional Use in the C-N Zone, like this:




Unlike a rezone which changes the zoning of a specific property, changing the Table of Uses
applies to all the properties in the City with that zoning. In this case, all property zoned C-N
could apply for a Conditional Use to have a Reception Center.
The Purpose of the Neighborhood Commercial Zone is explained in Riverton City Code
18.75.010:


         18.75.010 Purpose.
         The commercial neighborhood (C-N) zone is established to provide an area in which
         the primary use of the land is for commercial and service uses that will accommodate
         the daily convenience needs of the surrounding residential neighborhoods. The zone
         is intended to be located within, and integrated into, the residential neighborhoods in a
         manner that will create a minimum of detriment, hazard, or inconvenience to
         surrounding residential areas. Each commercial neighborhood use shall be within
         convenient walking distance from the surrounding residential area and shall encourage
         and accommodate for pedestrian access.

         The intent of the C-N zone is to encourage compatible neighborhood market uses to
         be incorporated within a neighborhood so as to discourage residents from having to
         drive into the commercial centers for day-to-day necessities. Permitted and conditional
         uses within this zone are identified under RCC 18.90.010.




Public Notices and Response
When considering Zone Text Change applications, the Planning Commission makes a
recommendation to City Council. The City Council will make a final decision on this application
in a future City Council Meeting. The City notices the public meeting on the city webpage and the
Utah Noticing Website, but no direct mailers are sent since this impacts more than just one
location.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1. Zone Text Change Application.
       2. Chapter 18.90 “Table of Commercial Uses”.
       3. Chapter 18.75 “Neighborhood Commercial”.
