                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            January 9, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-24-2042, “Bear River Converters”, a Conditional Use Home
                 Occupation located at 1897 West Park Avenue. Applicant – Anna Millsap


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-2042, “Bear River Converters LLC”, at
1897 West Park Avenue with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. Applicant may employ two full-time non-resident employees. All employees must use off-
       street parking.
    6. Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of garage space for business activities.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Bear River Converters,” at
1897 West Park Avenue, located near City Hall. The property is .67-acre and is zoned R-4, as
are surrounding properties. The house is a rambler style with a carport and a wrap-around drive.
The applicant, Ms. Millsap, has been operating the business since 2006 with a Simple home
occupation permit. When she was renewing her business license in 2024 it was determined that
her business has grown to a point where a conditional use permit is required since she now uses
space in a detached garage and shed for her business and since she now has employees.
Bear River Converters is a wholesale supplier and distributor of catalytic converters and exhaust
accessories. The business has been successful and the applicant has hired two non-resident
employees. Her two employees are her siblings who park one car at the back of the drive near
the detached garage. No customers come to the home, orders are shipped to the buyer.


 Report by: LH
Though the applicant has no customers coming to the home, she has truck deliveries which
come 6 – 8 times per year to deliver stock. The drivers back up down the driveway to the
detached garage, where they unload approximately 4 pallets of steel repair kits and exhaust
components directly into the garage.
This application comes before the Planning Commission because the applicant uses space in her
detached garage for business purposes and has two employees. The Home Occupation Code
states that a proposal to use garage or accessory building space for business use requires a
conditional use permit and approval of the Planning Commission. The Home Occupation code
allows one non-resident employee as a qualification, the Planning Commission has the authority
to authorize additional employees if there is adequate off-street parking for their vehicles. Ms.
Millsap utilizes one parking space in the back portion of the circular drive for her employees.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
that 50% of the garage space may be used for the business and up to two non-resident
employees may work at this location. All employees must use off-street parking.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

 Report by: LH
If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an exception
         through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home
         occupations.




 Report by: LH
18.190.060 Fixed standards.
(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed,
volunteer, or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located.
      (a) The planning commission may grant an exception to this requirement and allow
      additional employees working at the home with a conditional use permit if the applicant can
      demonstrate they meet the following qualifications:

             (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and
             business-related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.

             (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the residential integrity
             of the property and shall not displace any required front yard landscaping.

             (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted amounts as
             specified in this title.

             (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.

             (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars, pick-up trucks,
             vans and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction equipment, and other heavy
             equipment shall not be permitted to be brought to the home by employees.

             (vi) That any increase in the number of employees does not result in an increase of
             customers visiting the property that would exceed allotted customers per day as
             specified by this title.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage on vehicles
             parked at the home.

             (6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the
             home occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and
             use off-street parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or
             business-related visitor vehicles.

             (10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any
             unscreened or unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not
             limited to, home occupation events or activities; and storage or display of supplies,
             inventory or equipment when such use is in conjunction with the sales, service or
             production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the home occupation
             must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.




 Report by: LH
Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Application
         2.     Public Notice including Area Map
         3.     Site Plan
         4.     Parking Plan
         5.     Aerial View
         6.     Street View




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, January 9, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood
                                               Road to take public comment on the following application:
Anna Millsap is requesting a conditional use for a home occupation “Bear River Converters”, located
at 1897 West Park Avenue. This business supplies and distributes exhaust system components such
as catalytic converters. Work will be conducted in the detached garage and products will be shipped
to customers.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
