                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            October 26, 2023
Subject:         PLZ-23-8019 “Riverton Cove Amended,” an amendment to a previously
                 approved subdivision, Riverton Cove, near 12900 South 1830 West. Applicant-
                 Ryan Kent



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission Approve/Deny PLZ-23-8019, “Riverton Cove Amended” to be
located near 12900 South 1830 West, with the following modifications to the original
subdivision:

    1.



Background

This is a public hearing for an amendment to a 31-lot subdivision, Riverton Cove. The
subdivision sits on about 5.9-acres of property Zoned RM-6-SD by the City Council on August
17, 2021. The Specific Designation included a requirement for single-family detached units on
individual lots. The Planning Commission approved the subdivision on October 28, 2021 with
several conditions. The minutes from the October 28, 2021 meeting are attached.

The streets inside the subdivision are all private, with no city maintenance. As a feature of the
subdivision the developer included entry/exit gates on the plans submitted to the City and
approved by the planning commission. This was a proposal by the developer, not a
requirement of the city. The distance from the public right-of-way was reviewed as part of the
development approval, to insure adequate stacking space off the public street. However, the
technical details of the gates were not specifically reviewed by Staff, as there is not a standard
or specification on which any review would be based. The developer is responsible to insure
that proposed improvements such as gates are functional and consistent with the space
available on the roadways.



Report by: TJP
10/24/2023
The developer would like to amend the approved subdivision plans to remove the entry gates.
This would only impact the gates, the streets would remain privately owned and maintained by
the HOA.The developer contends that there is not enough space to install the gates. It is
assumed the applicant will present additional information in support of his request at the
hearing.

It is important to consider the gates were set up to make 12960 South an exit only, not a full in
and out access. The approved October 28, 2021 Conditions of Approval included the following:

         1.       Private entry gates shall meet Fire Code and City Ordinance. Gates shall not
         swing into or block the sidewalk on public streets. Subdivision street onto 12960 South
         shall be exit only. Gates and entry controls shall be situated so vehicles do not block
         public sidewalks or streets while using the controls or waiting for the gates to open.

Consequently, the subdivision fencing installed along 12960 South may not meet city ordinance
for a clear vision on a full access (in and out) approach. If the Commission decides to remove
the gates from the site plan, staff recommends the motion include a condition that the fencing
along 12960 South and the south entrance meet Riverton City Ordinance for clear site area for
the full access.

The Commission may want to consider, this application is brought forward by the original
developer. Building Permits have been issued for 30 of the 31 lots with 10 of the lots having
received a Final Inspection. It is assumed the houses which have received Final inspection are
now occupied by residents. All of the lots within the development were included in the public
notice mailing area.

Public Notice and Recommend Actions
Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site, including owners of the lots
in Riverton Cove Subdivision, and posted on the City’s web-page. No comments have been
received at the time of this report.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.      Public Notice including Area Map.
         2.      Application.
         3.      Recorded Subdivision Plat.
         4.      Proposed Amended Civil Site Plan.
         5.      Site Pictures from the applicant.
         6.      Minutes from the October 28, 2021, PC Approval.




Report by: TJP
10/24/2023
                                                      11800 South




                                                                                                    Redwood Rd




                                                                                                                 1300 West
                              Bangerter Hwy




                                                                    2700 West
                                                      3600 West
                                              Lowes                                    Peterson’s

                                                                                  12600 South
                                                IHC

                                                                                                                              Golf
                                                                                                                             Course



                   Mtn View                   Home
                    Village                   Depot
                                                                                13400 South

                                                  Walmart




rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
rivertonutah.gov
                    PC Minutes
Original Riverton Cove Approval
              October 28, 2021
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             12
October 28, 2021


residents to identify additional concerns. Commissioner Brown seconded the
motion. Vote on motion: Natalia Brown-Aye, Grant Lefgren-Aye, Keith Breinholt-Nay,
Chair Troy Rushton-Aye, The motion passed 3-to-1. Commissioners Cannon and
Russell were not present for the vote.

The public hearing was to remain open until November 11, 2021.

      E.     AMENDED COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN, “SAGE HOMES OFFICE
             BUILDING” LOCATED AT 1288 WEST 12700 SOUTH. APPLICANT- DOUG
             JESSOP WITH SAGE HOMES THIS ITEM WAS CONTINUED BY THE
             COMMISSION AT THE SEPT 23, 2021, COMMISSION MEETING.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the matter was continued from the
September 23, 2021, meeting. Staff recommended that it be continued again tonight. The
applicants were proposing an addition but there were remaining issues to be worked out.
The required documents were to be available by the November 11 meeting. The public
hearing remained open from the previous meeting. Public comment was not taken,
however, because there was nothing to comment on. The matter was to be addressed at
the next meeting.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to CONTINUE the application and public hearing for
Application PLZ-21-8019, Amended Site Plan for Sage Homes Office Building until the
November 11, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting. Commissioner Breinholt
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission. Commissioners Cannon and Russell were not present for the vote.

      F.     SUBDIVISION, “RIVERTON COVE” A 31-LOT SUBDIVISION NEAR 12900
             SOUTH 1830 WEST. APPLICANT- RYAN KENT WITH DRAGON FLY
             DEVELOPMENT.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request involves a residential
subdivision to the west. Rezone hearings were held earlier in the year. The request involves
infill development. The rezone request was for RM-6 with an SD designation of single-family
detached housing. The request was approved by the City Council. Notice was sent to
neighbors within 300 feet. A few phone calls were received by staff with most wondering
what was happening as a result of the public hearings held. Mr. Prestwich explained that
this is the next step and it changed from a legislative action item to an administrative
approval. The Planning Commission was reviewing the subdivision to determine if it meets
the ordinance. The Planning Commission made a recommendation to the City Council who
granted approval with the ordinance in place.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the request was determined to comply with the ordinance. There
are private streets in the development and the developer chose to make it a private 38-foot
private street cross-section that includes 32 feet of parkable surface. In addition, the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                13
October 28, 2021


developer added 13 parking stalls. Ultimately, there are 13 guest stalls in addition to the on-
street parking. There are 31 lots all of which are greater than the 5,000 square-foot
minimum. Because it is infill seven parcels will be maintained by the HOA. There are also
small parcels at the end of each road.

Mr. Prestwich pointed out that it will be a gated community. The main entrance will be near
the gate that is set back off of 1830 West with queuing. Traffic circulation issues were
discussed. He clarified that all of the water utilities inside will be private. Fencing around
the development will be six-foot masonry.

Staff clarified that the RM-6 amendment specifies that this is a compatible zone, especially
relative to fencing. Solid fencing is required around the perimeter per the zoning. If the
Planning Commission feels that additional or different separation is warranted, it would need
to be specified in the motion. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the new development requires
fencing around the perimeter. All public systems, streets, and open spaces will be
maintained by the HOA. Reference was made to the first lot and the exit-only gate to ensure
that fire engines can gain access. Many of the concerns and comments from neighbors
pertained to the loss of open space. Mr. Prestwich reviewed the proposed conditions of
approval.

Commissioner Lefgren asked about garbage disposal. Mr. Prestwich stated that in a private
street situation like this, the HOA contracts for garbage collection. The mailbox will be a
gang box located near the entrance in accordance with U.S. Postal Service regulations.

Commissioner Brown drove the area and noticed several cars parked on 1830 West. She
noted that it is a very difficult street to navigate. She had hoped that the main entrance
would have been on the other road to minimize traffic. She asked if Staff had similar
concerns about traffic. Mr. Prestwich stated that there have been concerns and the City
Engineer has reviewed the offset and impacts on 1830 West. While 1830 West will be
impacted, the City did its best based on the ordinances and what exists there. Placing the
gate further back was determined to be the best way to mitigate the issues. Traffic patterns
and impacts were discussed.

The applicant, Ryan Kemp from Dragonfly Development, clarified the perimeter fencing and
stated that it has always been a priority for them. On 12960 South and 1830 West where
the entrances and exits will be, the developer would like to maintain the option of upgrading
to cement fencing and not dictate that it be vinyl. The intent was to make the area feel more
private. Mr. Kemp apologized to the neighbors for the mess on the site and stated that they
have worked hard to get it cleaned up and are ready to move forward with the development.

Chair Rushton asked for clarification on the fencing. He asked if the entrances will be solid
and the perimeter vinyl. Mr. Kemp stated that that is the intent although colors had not yet
been determined. The zoning is R-4, which has no animal rights.

Commissioner Lefgren asked if it would be feasible to move the queuing of the 1830 West
entrance gate farther in to allow for one more car length. Mr. Kemp did not have a preference
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               14
October 28, 2021


as to how far the offset should be. He has had his engineers working on it but would not be
opposed to that proposal.

Holly Ludley reported that she lives on the lot next to 12960 South where the fencing will be.
She was concerned that the developer has never approached her to discuss what is
proposed even though her property will be impacted on two sides. She was opposed to the
proposed location of the main entrance as there is already heavy traffic there. Ms. Ludley
was frustrated with what is proposed and felt that the City had given more consideration over
the past several years to developers than residents. She stated that what is proposed will
impact her and her neighbors. She will have three homes on the lot next to her that has
been vacant for several years and is not maintained. She was frustrated that many,
including herself, have lived in the area for more than 20 years and their concerns have not
been heard. She was concerned that she and her neighbors are not being represented and
do not have a voice.

Robert Goff, a five-year resident, stated that he lives directly across 12960 South. He was
excited about the proposed development and for the old mobile homes in the area to be
removed. He was also excited to see the poorly maintained property improved, which will
increase property values in the area. He discussed the traffic patterns and did not expect
traffic to increase significantly.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Lefgren addressed Ms. Ludley’s concerns and stated that the property has
already been zoned and is not up for discussion. He appreciated her concerns.

Commissioner Brown expressed concern again about the traffic and how cars will enter and
exit the property. She stated that 12960 South can accommodate more vehicles than 1830
West. She was not opposed to the development but just the access.

Commissioner Lefgren asked about Staff’s recommendation regarding fencing.
Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge, stated that the RM-6 zone includes the
potential for true multi-family. It was considered an incompatible zone for single-family,
which automatically required a solid masonry fence. With the change to the RM-6 being a
single-family zone, it is now compatible. As a result, the proposed solid fencing complies
with the ordinance. Staff recommended that fencing be addressed in the motion.

Commissioner Lefgren moved to APPROVE PLZ-21-1007, “Riverton Cove
Subdivision” to be located near 12900 South 1830 West with the following conditions:

       1.     Address any outstanding Riverton City Staff redline comments on the
              plans.

       2.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with Riverton City
              Standards and ordinances, and with the recommendations of the
              Riverton City Engineering Division.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             15
October 28, 2021



      3.     The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
             applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

      4.     Any necessary easements or agreements on the property shall be
             recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder.

      5.     The site and structure shall comply with all applicable standards and
             ordinances of the City, including the International Building and Fire
             Codes.

      6.     Perimeter fencing shall be installed per City Code and shall be a private
             six-foot fence of the same material.

      7.     Waterlines within the subdivision shall be privately owned and
             maintained. Streets shall be privately paved to a width that allows for
             parking on each side.

      8.     Streets within the subdivision shall be privately owned and maintained.
             Streets shall be paved to a width that allows parking on each side.

      9.     Private entry gates shall meet Fire Code and City Ordinance. Gates shall
             not swing into or block the sidewalk on public streets. Subdivision street
             onto 12960 South shall be exit only. Gates and entry controls shall b
             situated so vehicles do not block public sidewalks or streets while using
             the controls or waiting for the gates to open.

      10.    The HOA shall be responsible to maintain the open space parcels within
             the subdivision and the landscaping in the adjoining park strips along
             public streets. (1830 West and 12960 South Streets.)

Chair Rushton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Commission. Commissioners Cannon and Russell were not present for the
vote.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     N/A.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     REVIEW OF ORDINANCES FOR AMENDED SITE PLANS.

Mr. Prestwich indicated that there have been questions regarding the threshold for requiring
an applicant to come before the Planning Commission when changes or improvements are
proposed. Commissioner Lefgren felt that additional review was warranted if square footage
Current Site Photos
