                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            August 28, 2025
Subject:         “Paleteria La Rosa,” PLZ-25-2039, Conditional Use Home Occupation at
                 13259 South 2480 West. Applicant- Christian and Martha Altamirano


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2039 “Paleteria La Rosa,” located at
13259 South 2480 West with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The work vehicle (mobile food trailer) must be parked in the rear or side yard and screened
       behind a gate.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “Palateria La Rosa” at
13259 South 2480 West. The property is a quarter-acre lot in Vista Meadows Subdivision Ph. 3,
which is in the southeast quadrant of the city. The property is zoned R-3 as are surrounding
properties. The home is rambler-style with approximately 1,400-sf on the main level with a
similar basement. The attached garage is 2-car with about 500-sf. The property has an extra-
wide drive approach on the south side which continues past a gate into a fenced back yard. The
homeowners also have additional parking space on the southwest side of the house.
The applicants, Mr. and Mrs. Altamirano, operate a business which sells frozen treats and cold
drinks from a 16-ft mobile trailer. There is no food production in the home or the trailer, and sales
take place off-site. Occasionally, when the trailer is not in use, or needs to be restocked, it would
be parked on the south side of their home behind a vinyl gate. They does not anticipate using
any other space in the home or property and there are no non-resident employees.
This item comes to the Planning Commission because the applicants seek approval to use
 Report by: LH
outdoor space for business use. The Home Occupation Ordinance 18.190.080 (3) makes it a
conditional use for any home occupation that proposes to use any outdoor or accessory space.




Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
specifying that any vehicles will be parked off-street and properly screened.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report one public comment had been emailed to staff indicating support for
the application if the trailer were not to park on the street or in front of the gate.



Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).


 Report by: LH
The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.

18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
         exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.




18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations
must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are
unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may
pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

(1) Hours. With the exception of short term rentals, no visitors in conjunction with the home
occupation (clients, patrons, employees, volunteers, students, pupils, etc.) shall be permitted
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

(2) Traffic. Vehicular traffic from business-related visitors and customers shall not exceed that
which normally and reasonably occurs for a home in the neighborhood. With the exception of
short term rentals the home occupation shall be limited to two business-related visitors or
customers per hour, to a maximum of eight business-related visitors or customers per day.

 Report by: LH
Business-related deliveries or pickups scheduled by the business owner shall not exceed two per
day.

(3) Repealed by Ord. 20-05.

(4) Conducted in a Home. When business activities are being conducted on the property that is to
be licensed, the home occupation shall be conducted within the principal home or enclosed areas.

(5) Maximum Floor Space. With the exception of short term rentals, no more than 25 percent of
the total main floor area and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit shall be used for home
occupation. As an alternative to use of main and upper floor areas of the dwelling unit, up to 50
percent of the basement of a home unit may be utilized for home occupation.

(6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the home occupation,
including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and use off-street parking. Off-street
parking must also be provided for customers, clients or business-related visitor vehicles.

(7) Vehicle Advertisement. Vehicles or equipment may not be used for the primary purpose of
advertising the home occupation at the site of the home occupation.

(10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any unscreened or
unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not limited to, home occupation
events or activities; and storage or display of supplies, inventory or equipment when such use is in
conjunction with the sales, service or production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the
home occupation must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.




Attachments
 The following items are attached:


          1.     Application
          2.     Street View
          3.     Side View
          4.     Public Notice including Area Map
          5.     MobileTrailer View




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, August 28, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd.
                                               to take public comment on the following application:
Christian Altamirano is requesting a conditional use permit for a home occupation, “Paleteria La
Rosa,” to be located at 13259 South 2480 West. The applicant describes the business as a home
office for a food trailer which will sell drinks and frozen treats at other locations. The trailer will be
parked behind a gate in the back yard while at the home. She will take the food trailer to events
and other locations to conduct business.
The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and
take public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.




                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
