                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            May 8, 2025
Subject:         “Priority Builders Rezone,” PLZ-25-4004, General Plan Amendment and
                 Rezone of approximately 4.28-acres located near the northwest corner of
                 11800 South and Redwood Road. Changing the General Plan Designation to
                 High Density Residential and the zoning to RM-8, a multi-family residential
                 zone up to 8 dwelling units per acre. Applicant- Scott Yermish of Priority
                 Builders



This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of application PLZ-25-4004, “Priority
Builders Rezone,” by changing the General Plan Designation to Medium High Density
Residential (5-8 du/acre) and Rezoning the subject properties to RM-8 (multi-family
residential, 8 du/acre).

Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of application PLZ-25-4004, “Priority
Builders Rezone,” for changing the General Plan Designation and Rezoning thus keeping the
current General Plan Designations and current Zoning (R-4, RR-22, and C-G).

Background

This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicant, Scott Yermish
representing Priority Builders. This request covers multiple parcels which have multiple
General Plan Designations and multiple Zoning Designations. If approved, this application
would place all the subject property in the same General Plan Designation and the same Zone.

The subject property is approximately 4.28-acres located near the northwest corner of 11800
South and Redwood Road with frontage on each road. There are four (4) parcels included in
the application with the following parcel numbers:
    • 27-22-377-021
    • 27-22-379-001
    • 27-22-379-009
    • 27-22-379-010
The property is crossed by Midas Creek and has some older homes and structures. One of the
parcels was approved for 4-story (58-ft tall) office building in 2019, but the project was never built.

Redwood Road is controlled by UDOT, while 11800 South (sometimes known as Meyers Lane)
is controlled by Riverton City. Riverton City utilities are available in the area.

The area has a mixture of General Plan Designations. The subject properties have General plan
designation of Community Commercial, Estate Density Residential, and Medium Density
Residential. All adjoing properties have the General Plan Designation of “Medium High Density
Residential” or Estate Density Residential. Across Redwood Road is Estate Density Residential
and Medium High Density Residential. To the south across 11800 South is Medium High Density
Residential. The General Plan Designations that correspond with the requested RM-8 Zone are
Medium High Density Residential (5-8 du/acre) and High Density Residential (8-12 du/acre).

Likewise, the area Zoning is a mix. The subject properties are zoned Commercial Gateway (C-
G), Rural Residential (RR-22) and R-3 Residential. Adjacent properties to the north are zoned
RM-8, and to the south they are zoned RR-22. Across Redwood Road to the east is RR-22,
Commercial Neighborhood (C-N) and RM-6. To the south the zoning is RR-22, R-4, and RM-8.

The requested RM-8 Zone allows for a maximum density of eight dwelling units per acre.
Permitted uses in the RM-8 Zone include Condos, Townhomes (attached or detached),
Residential planned developments, parks, open space, and household pets.

The applicant describes his proposed use on the property as “Townhome Community that mimics
plans from the adjoiing townhome subdivisions to the northwest and south.”

If the zoning were approved there would be additional applications, studies, reports and public
hearings for the site plan design.



Public Notices and Response
Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
webpage. After the first notices were sent, the applicant amended the application rezone request
from RM-14 to RM 8. A second notice was sent to everyone on the mailing list announcing the
meeting date and time was the same, but the applicant was changing his request to the lower
density RM-8 Zone.

When considering rezone applications, the Planning Commission makes a recommendation to
City Council. The City Council will make a final decision on this application in a future City Council
Meeting where the public can attend and comment. Property owners within 1,000 feet will receive
an additional mailed notice announcing the date and time for the City Council Meeting.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Original Public Notice including Area Map.
       2.   Second Public Notice announcing RM-8 request.
       3.   Rezone Application.
       4.   Request for RM-8.
       5.   Area Zoning Map.
       6.   Area General Plan Map.
                                                 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                     The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on Thursday, May 8,
                                     2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830
                                     S. Redwood Rd. to take public comment on the following application:

Scott Yermish with Priority Builders is seeking a General Plan Amendment and a Rezone of four parcels making
approximately 4.28-acres. The parcels are located near the northwest corner of 11800 South and Redwood Road as
shown below. The applicant is requesting the General Plan be amended to High Density Residential, and a rezone
from the existing R-4 Residential, RR-22 Residential, and Gateway Commercial zones to the RM-14 zone, a multifamily
residential zone, which allows Condos or Townhomes up to 14 dwelling units per acre.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application and take public comments before making a recommendation to
the City Council. The City Council will hold another public hearing and make a final decision in a future meeting. You
received this notice because Salt Lake County property records indicate you own property within 1,000 feet of the subject
property. Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.
                                                       HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.
Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
                                        UPDATED NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                     You received a notice that the Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public
                                     hearing on Thursday, May 8, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton City
                                     Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take public comment on the
following application:

Scott Yermish with Priority Builders is seeking a General Plan Amendment and a Rezone of four parcels making
approximately 4.28-acres. The parcels are located near the northwest corner of 11800 South and Redwood Road as
shown below. The applicant is requesting the General Plan be amended to High Density Residential, and a rezone
from the existing R-4 Residential, RR-22 Residential, and Gateway Commercial zones to the RM-14 zone, a multifamily
residential zone, which allows Condos or Townhomes up to 14 dwelling units per acre.

 THE APPLICANT HAS AMENDED THIS APPLICATION FOR REZONE TO REQUEST THE RM-8 ZONE,
ALLOWING A MAXIMUM OF 8 UNITS PER ACRE RATHER THAN 14 UNITS PER ACRE AS ORIGINALLY
   REQUESTED. IT WILL BE PRESENTED AS SUCH TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY
         COUNCIL. THE UPCOMING HEARING DATE OF MAY 8TH HAS NOT CHANGED.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application and take public comments before making a recommendation to
the City Council. The City Council will hold another public hearing and make a final decision in a future meeting. You
received this notice because Salt Lake County property records indicate you own property within 1,000 feet of the subject
property. Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.
                                                       HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.
Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
Dear Mr. Lethbridge,


Please amend my re zone application that was submitted to the city for the location of
11800 and redwood road for which I am scheduled to appear before the Planning
Commission on May 8th, 2025 from the Rm-14 rezone that I had requested on said
application to RM-8. We are requesting that the rezone be inline with the other existing
zoning that is present in the locations surrounding that area.

I am sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused but we are formally requesting RM-
8 NOT RM-14.


Thank you,
Scott Yermish
COO
Priority Builders Inc.
(801) 657-8352 (Cell)
(801) 495-5959 (Office)
              Area Zoning         RM-8




                                                RR-22
                                         C-D



                                               RM-6
                            R-4




rivertonutah.gov
              Area General Plan




rivertonutah.gov
