                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                 MARCH 13, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Darren Park, Chair                              Jason Lethbridge, Development             Services
                                                Director
Monique Beck                                    Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon (arrived at 7:17 p.m.)              Lisa Halversen, Planner
Shelly Cluff                                    Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Chris Knudsen
Evan Matheson
Troy Rushton

1.           CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

Commissioner Knudsen led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     “DAI/MCKENZIE REZONE,” PLZ-25-4001, MOTION TO TABLE.

Chair Park reported that more time was necessary for this item, so the matter would be
tabled. New public notices will be sent prior to the rescheduled public hearing.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission TABLE PLZ-25-4001 “DAI –
McKenzie Development Agreement.” Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion.
The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

      B.     “WRAP N RO”, PLZ-25-2007, AN APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL
             USE PERMIT FOR A HOME OCCUPATION TO BE LOCATED AT 2046
             WEST KIMBER LANE. APPLICANT, ROBIN CAVANESS.

Planner, Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report and indicated that the application was
for a snack delivery service to be located in the applicant’s home at 2046 West Kimber
Lane. The 1,600-square-foot property has a basement and a two-car garage. It is located
in the Saddlebrook subdivision and is zoned R-8-SD, Medium-Density Residential. The
adjoining properties are zoned similarly.

The Applicant, Robin Cavaness intends to use her basement kitchen to prepare snack
trays that will be delivered to businesses. The trays will include fruits, nuts, muffins, and
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              2
March 13, 2025


prepackaged snacks. Ms. Cavaness does not anticipate any customers coming to the
home.

The site plan was reviewed indicating that less than 50% of the basement will be used for
the business, as allowed by City Code. Aerial and street views were also reviewed.

Riverton City Code Section 18.190.080 states that any Home Occupation involving or
proposing to involve food or drink preparation, storage, or catering requires a Conditional
Use Permit. The business will also require inspection and approval by the Department of
Health.

Ms. Halversen reported that notices were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the
subject property, and no comments were received. In response to a question raised by
Chair Park, she confirmed that the health department inspection would take place prior to
issuance of the Business License. The City and State each perform inspections.

The Applicant, Robin Cavaness clarified that her house is a 3,500-square-foot single-
family home. Her snack delivery business will feature healthier options. She believes it
will be a good way for businesses to get their employees excited to be at work on days
they may not want to be there. In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Ms.
Cavaness confirmed that she would be delivering the snack trays. If a customer were to
come to her home, it would be one car at a time.

Ms. Cavaness reported that, per the Department of Agriculture, an inspection was not
required because she is only using prepackaged food. She indicated that she had
forwarded their letter to Ms. Halversen.

Chair Park asked if the business would have employees. Ms. Cavaness stated that if the
business grows large enough to need employees, she will move it outside of her home.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.     There were no public comments.       The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-25-2007 “Wrap n Ro”, at 2046 West Kimber Lane, with the following
conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and
             all applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the
             City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
             Fire Codes.

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
             agency approvals.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               3
March 13, 2025



       4.    Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

       5.    Applicant may use up to 50% of the basement for the business.

       6.    No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation before 7:00 a.m. or
             after 7:00 p.m.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       C.    “SALT AMENDMENT,” PLZ-25-4003, A PUBLIC HEARING FOR AN
             AMENDMENT TO A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN
             RIVERTON CITY AND CENTERCAL AMENDING THE ALLOWED
             NUMBER OF RESIDENTIAL UNITS WITHIN THE PROJECT AREA FROM
             282 TO 288. APPLICANT – RIVERTON CITY.

Development Services Director Jason Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and indicated
that the application was for an amendment to the previously approved Village Lofts
Apartment project. The previous approval was conceptually part of the original Mountain
View Village plan, and at the time a main floor commercial area was part of the plan. It
was subsequently amended to remove most of the commercial component and incorporate
it into the building but still included approximately 10,000 square feet of retail space. Due
to the scale and scope of the project and what already exists in Mountain View Village,
SALT Development and the City agreed that retaining the retail component would create
more negative impacts than it addressed. The amendment would remove the retail portion
and convert it to six residential units.

Previous and current conceptual renderings were reviewed, indicating minor exterior
changes to convert the corner area from a commercial storefront to residential. Staff
determined that the change would make the building’s aesthetics and use much more
cohesive. Mixing commercial and residential uses can cause conflict, especially in regard
to traffic and parking, and the conversion provides much better separation between the
apartments and the rest of Mountain View Village.

The Planning Commission would be considering two actions:

   •   Amendment of the Mountain View Village (CenterCal) Development Agreement to
       allow a maximum of 288 units. As required by the agreement, consent, and
       cooperation has been received from CenterCal. The City Council would then
       consider the Commission’s recommendation and vote on the amended agreement.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               4
March 13, 2025


   •   Minor amendments to the Site Plan to approve modifications to the exterior
       architecture, which would be voted on by the Planning Commission.


In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Lethbridge clarified that there
would be three additional units per floor, for a total of six units.

Chair Park asked about the removal of the third-floor patio space above the previous
commercial component. The southwest corner still indicates a patio space, and he was
concerned about the aesthetics. Mr. Lethbridge stated that the only proposed change was
to the northwest corner where the retail space was previously planned.

Ethan Bedingfield, Vice President of Design for SALT Development, noted that the area
with glass is the main entry to the apartment building, which includes the front lobby,
offices, and lounge space. To the right is a small parking garage with a pool deck, pool,
hot tub, fire pits, and cabanas above. The first four floors beside the garage are all
amenity space. The project will include a courtyard with a lake feature, lawn, and pavilion.

Renderings of exterior and interior features were reviewed, including a lobby and office
space for residents’ use. The northwest corner will mirror the look of the northeast corner.
Mr. Bedingfield noted that the approximately 5,100 square feet of retail space would be
replaced with approximately 2,700 square feet of residential space on each floor, for a total
of 5,400 square feet of additional residential space in six units. The additional units would
make the project viable, and they appreciated the City’s consideration of the change. In
response to Chair Park’s question, he indicated that the patio areas on the third floor would
still be larger than those above, but smaller than in the previous plan.

Commissioner Matheson asked about projected rents for the project. Mr. Bedingfield
stated that it would range from $1,500 per month for a studio to $5,000 per month for a
penthouse. The amenities will be available to all residents.

Chair Park asked about SALT Development’s other projects. Mr. Bedingfield reported that
they have had projects with a retail component, but there have always been challenges
with those developments. The Fourth West apartments in northern Salt Lake City is an
urban project with a first-floor neighborhood grocery store. It has had a consistent
occupancy level of over 95%. Hardware West and Hardware East Apartments are
adjacent to that project and have a waiting list. Salt Lake Crossing is in the same area and
has just opened. It consists of 300 studio apartments with a small office building.
Residents receive a discounted membership to the work club, which is subscription-based
office space. They also have a 519-unit project in Lehi that will open later in the year.
They plan to begin construction on the Riverton project on June 1, 2025.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.      There were no public comments.        The public
hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             5
March 13, 2025


Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of the Proposed second amendment to the Mountain View Development Agreement
and APPROVE application PLZ-25-4003, Final Site Plan Amendment for the Village
Lofts exterior architecture, with the following conditions:

       1.    The development agreement be amended to allow a total of 288
             residential units.

       2.    The exterior materials and architecture for the amended portion of the
             building shall be as shown in the provided exhibits.

Commissioner Knudsen seconded the motion.               The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       D.    “TABLE OF USES,” PLZ-25-5002, A PUBLIC HEARING FOR PROPOSED
             CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT CODE, SECTION
             18.90.010 “TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES” IN RIVERTON CITY CODE.
             APPLICANT – RIVERTON CITY.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and reported that the Commission
would be considering recommendations on amendments to Title 18, Land Use and
Development, Section 18.90.010, Table of Commercial Uses. The table lists uses and
whether they are conditional, permitted, or not permitted in specific zones.

Proposed changes include:

   •   Add Assisted Living Facilities, Nursing Homes, and Residential Care Facilities
       as a Conditional Use in all zones. Remove Nursing/Care Facility, and Assisted
       Living Center.

Mr. Prestwich noted that there are two properties in a C-PO Zone with an Elderly Housing
Overlay and existing care facilities. When the City changed the overlay approximately two
years ago, nursing homes and care facilities were removed and made available in
residential zones, and a density bonus was awarded for senior housing. However, the
Table of Uses still indicated that it was not permitted. The amendment will correct that
oversight and allow existing care centers to be considered conforming.

   •   Add Building Trades, Sales, and Services, including Electrician, HVAC, and
       Plumbers.

When the Table of Uses was adopted, no trades were included. They were previously
categorized under “construction services,” but that was interpreted as roadmaking
equipment or construction yards, not professional offices with a workshop in the rear, for
example. It created a lot of confusion. The addition clarifies the use and makes it
conditional in two zones, not permitted in Commercial Neighborhood (“C-N”) and
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              6
March 13, 2025


Commercial Professional Office (“C-PO Zones”) and permitted in Regional Commercial
(“C-R”) and Planned Commercial Center (“PCC”).

   •   Add clarifying language to Bus Passenger Terminal as a building or site, not to
       include public bus stops.

   •   Add Dance Studios, Gymnastics Studios, and Martial Arts Studios as a
       Conditional Use in small-lot zones and a Permitted Use in large-lot and commercial
       zones.

Staff has received many calls on these types of businesses, but they were not previously
addressed in the Table of Uses.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that no comments were received in response to the public notice.

Commissioner Rushton asked about assisted living facilities and noted that residential care
facilities are different from rehabilitation homes, which can exist in any area of the City.
Mr. Lethbridge stated that rehabilitation homes are exempted by Federal law.

In response to a question, Mr. Lethbridge clarified that outside storage is not allowed in
professional office zones. Regarding bus passenger terminals, it was clarified that private
shuttles picking up on private property are not considered terminals. The use would only
apply if they proposed to build a structure or change a site specific to a bus terminal. The
item is included in the City Code in case the Utah Transit Authority wishes to build a
terminal in the City.

Commissioner Cluff asked if Building Trades would encompass construction, as the
language was unclear. Mr. Lethbridge agreed that clarifying language should be added to
indicate that it is not limited to the specified trades.

Commissioner Cluff asked about Landscaping Services, which are similar in nature but
listed as not permitted in the C-G or C-D Zones. She suggested either including them with
Building Trades or allowing it as a Conditional Use in those areas. Mr. Lethbridge stated
that the challenge with landscaping services is the associated materials that are often
stored. Any supplies are required to be kept inside. However, due to the quantities of
supplies usually held by landscaping services, that is not practical. Outdoor vehicle and
equipment storage that is not accessory to a primary use is not permitted in most zones
and is conditional as an accessory to an approved primary use in C-R and PCC Zones.

Chair Park asked if the language regarding Building Trades was too restrictive. City
Attorney, Ryan Carter suggested adding the term “without limitation” to clarify that the
examples given are not intended to limit the use; it applies to anything that qualifies as a
building trade.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
March 13, 2025


Commissioner Rushton asked if it would be prudent to combine the Table of Uses with the
table for industrial zones. Mr. Prestwich stated that they considered it when they last
amended the Table of Uses. The challenge was that there are a lot of unique uses in the
Industrial Zone that made the list very long, but most are not permitted uses in any other
zone.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Lethbridge stated that an
equipment rental service would be considered retail or commercial office, but the
equipment storage would fall under “Vehicle and Equipment Storage, Outdoor, Accessory
to an Approved Primary Use.” The Table of Uses limits where that equipment can be
stored.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.        There were no public comments.         The public
hearing was closed.

Chair Park stated that he believed clarifying language should be added for Building Trades
as suggested by Mr. Carter. He also recommended including a Conditional Use for
Building Trades in the C-PO Zone.

Mr. Prestwich noted that the matter could be continued to address the recommended
changes or the changes could be recommended for inclusion to the City Council.

Commissioner Knudsen stated that according to the Table of Uses, some categories are
not permitted anywhere in the City, such as Sexually-Oriented Businesses and
Correctional Institutions, and asked if there was any potential liability for not allowing those
uses. Mr. Carter confirmed that the City was not at risk. If anyone claimed discrimination,
the required administrative process would give the City ample time to reconsider prior to
the matter going to court.

Commissioner Cluff agreed with Chair Park’s suggested amendments and proposed
allowing Landscaping Services in the same zones as Building Trades as they will be
subject to the same storage requirements.

Commissioner Knudsen agreed that clarifying language should be added to Building
Trades but disagreed with including Landscaping Services as he sees a differentiation
between the uses. In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, he indicated
approval for keeping it as a separate line item and changing it to a Conditional Use in the
C-D and C-G Zones.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of amending Section 18.90.010, Table of Commercial Uses, with amendments as
described herein:

       1.     Recommend that “Building Trades, Sales and Services, including
              Electricians, HVAC, Plumbers” be amended to read “Building Trades,
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              8
March 13, 2025


               Sales and Services, including (without limitation) Electricians, HVAC,
               Plumbers.”

      2.       Make all Building Trades a Conditional Use in the C-PO Zone.

      3.       Landscaping Services be allowed as a Conditional Use in the C-D, C-G,
               and C-PO Zones.

Commissioner Knudsen seconded the motion.                     The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      E.       “ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS,” PLZ-24-5007, A PUBLIC HEARING
               FOR PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
               CODE FOR ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS OF COMMERCIAL
               BUILDINGS FOUND IN SECTIONS 18.65.060, 18.70.060, 18.75.050,
               18.80.060, 18.85.060, 18.95.040, 18.100.060, AND 18.215.030 OF
               RIVERTON CITY CODE. APPLICANT – RIVERTON CITY.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and noted that the standards were previously
discussed with both the Planning Commission and City Council, and changes
recommended during those discussions had been incorporated into the proposed
amendments. Architectural standards are applied in each zone, so all relevant sections of
City Code must be amended. Changes cover all commercial districts except the SLR
Zone, which is a site-specific zone with its own Development Agreement and design
standards. Section 18.215.030 covers commercial, public, and quasi-public uses in
residentially zoned properties. Mr. Lethbridge noted that the amendments will clarify and
standardize commercial zoning across the City.

The following sections would be changed:

      1.       Four-Sided Architecture

      2.       Building Height
           •   Varies by zone, and limits height within a certain distance of a residential
               zone.

      3.       Bulk
           •   Varies by zone.
           •   Variations are required every 30 to 50 feet.

      4.       Roofline
           •   Variations in height are required every 50 feet.

      5.       Exterior Building Materials and Color
           •   They must have two but no more than four types of exterior materials.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
March 13, 2025


           •   They must have between two and four colors.
           •   Bright colors are prohibited except as accent colors as determined by the
               City. Mr. Prestwich stated that an accent color will blend in on a larger
               building but could overwhelm a smaller building, so flexibility was built into
               the Code to address those differences.
           •   No more than 75% of any building side shall consist of one material or color.
           •   Wainscot of a minimum of 30 inches of compliant material is required.

      6.       Prohibited Materials
           •   Changes were made to allow distressed metal as an accent at the
               Commission’s discretion.

      7.       Cohesion and Consistency
           •   If in an approved center, the building must have two major elements that tie it
               in with other buildings in the center. If on a standalone site, it must have one
               major element in common with nearby buildings.

      8.       Mechanical Equipment
           •   This is measured as seen from six feet high at the property line or as
               otherwise determined by the City.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed how the principles would apply to newly constructed commercial
buildings in the City.

The Burger King building meets most of the updated standards. However, there is a
question as to whether it would meet the requirement for Exterior Building Materials and
Color because the building has more than four materials and colors and does not have
wainscot. The option was presented to designate wainscot as one of the major elements
and take it off the list of requirements.

The new America First Credit Union meets all proposed standards updates.

The House of Vapes meets six requirements but could have been denied based on failure
to meet requirements for Exterior Building Materials and Color, as well as Cohesion and
Consistency, as the bright color is out of character and is not cohesive with neighboring
buildings.

The new school meets most of the updated standards. Mr. Prestwich noted that it has
cohesion with neighboring residential properties, which he believes should be encouraged.

The Newman office building also does not meet the requirements for Exterior Building
Materials and Cohesion and Consistency. He noted that glass would have to be removed
from requirements to make the Burger King compliant but added to make this building
compliant.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               10
March 13, 2025


Mr. Prestwich reported that the standards were reviewed by architect Brian Russell, who
stated that he was pleased with the amendments and happy that they would allow more
design freedom. He also expressed some concern about the number of materials and
provided feedback on other items that were incorporated into the amended standards.

Commissioner Cluff stated that the proposed changes were an improvement over the
previous standards. She asked if minimums and maximums were necessary for building
material types. Mr. Prestwich stated that he had asked that question as well. The police
station, for example, is a traditional red brick building that has no other exterior material
except the windows and keystones. It is a good-looking building that is cohesive with
surrounding buildings. He believes there is flexibility for the Planning Commission to
decide what is an exterior material and what is an accent. As mentioned previously, they
could decide that windows are not a counted element on one building but are counted on
another. That could be determined based on the overall building design.

In response to a question regarding wainscot, Mr. Prestwich reported that the requirement
is a carryover from existing standards. Commissioner Cluff stated that, based on the
buildings provided as examples, it is not a necessary requirement.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the flexibility regarding Cohesion would necessitate additional
work sessions with developers. Mr. Prestwich stated that Staff always meets with
developers. Additional input from the Commission could be required initially, but after Staff
has a better idea of their preferences, they should be able to guide developers on the initial
concepts. Mr. Lethbridge stated that the standard is not new. Direction is typically given
to developers to consider the context and be consistent with surrounding buildings.

Commissioner Cluff asked if they should have a carveout for buildings like Newman
Construction or if they would be able to accomplish the goal of allowing non-cohesive
buildings in blighted areas. Mr. Lethbridge clarified that there is enough flexibility in the
language for the City’s current needs, but Staff will consider alternative ways to craft the
language to address potential future needs. Mr. Lethbridge added that the Commission
will decide what the major element is. They will also have flexibility in determining what
“surrounding” means and can expand the area beyond adjacent buildings.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, it was confirmed that the proposed
requirement for red brick in the downtown area had been replaced by the Cohesion and
Consistency requirement.

Regarding accent colors, Commissioner Cluff asked if the phrase “as determined by the
City” included Staff or only the Planning Commission. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that it
would be determined by the Planning Commission.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the additional flexibility provided in the updated standards
would place more responsibility on the Planning Commission, but the flexibility is
necessary to be able to respond to different situations.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                11
March 13, 2025


Commissioner Cluff noted that the manufacturing zone is included in the updates and
asked if the standards would be higher than those previously in place in that zone. Mr.
Prestwich stated that there is little development in that zone, so they previously relied on a
reference to the Site Plan Development Standards. Rather than referencing items outside
the Ordinance, the language is now included in it. Mr. Lethbridge added that that newer
buildings in the zone are more consistent with current Code than older ones because it is
being implemented as they are redeveloped.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the height requirement in the PCC Zone and noted
that there are vacant parcels in Riverton that could be zoned PCC in the future. Mr.
Prestwich stated that existing standards were retained for each zone. The PCC Zone has
a maximum height of 80 feet, or 35 feet where any portion of the building is within 100 feet
of a residential zone.

In response to a question regarding Cohesion and Consistency, it was clarified that the
Applicant will identify the elements that meet the requirement, and Staff will then present
their position to the Commission. If Staff does not believe the building will comply, they will
discuss the matter with the applicant and ask for a revision. Mr. Lethbridge added that any
information that comes to the Commission will include original plans and approved
architecture so the Commission can see what the City originally intended for a building.

Commissioner Rushton suggested allowing two to six different colors and materials. He
asked if limiting any building side to having less than 75% of one material would hinder flex
space or future big box stores. Mr. Prestwich noted that the recent flex warehouse
included quite a bit of variation and would meet that standard.

Regarding building materials and glass, Chair Park asked if they would run into an
inconsistency issue if glass is considered a building material component on some buildings
but not others. He expressed concern that an architect could argue that the material
should or should not be included based on previous decisions. Mr. Prestwich stated that
the standards are structured in such a way that the consistency is in the Planning
Commission’s acceptance of the design. Mr. Carter added that the obligation to tie into the
surrounding environment would make a difference in the findings, and their decision would
have to be based on consistency with other buildings in the area.

Commissioner Cluff asked how the standards would apply to renovations to older
buildings, especially houses being converted to commercial buildings. Mr. Prestwich
stated that those conversions are always problematic. It was difficult to achieve the
required turn-of-the-century features on the three conversions on the south side of 12600
South. He believes the new standards will allow more flexibility to approve them, but they
may need to add materials to ensure that less than 75% of any one side consists of the
same material. When developers ask about converting a house for commercial use, the
City’s first suggestion is that they demolish the structure and build a new one due to
current commercial building and Americans with Disabilities Act codes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             12
March 13, 2025


Commissioner Cluff asked how the standards would apply to property sales. Mr.
Prestwich stated that if the new owner does not propose changes to the site, they will not
need to conform to the new standards. Any changes would have to comply with the new
standards.

Commissioner Rushton agreed with Chair Park’s concerns about glass and stated that he
believed it should be counted as an element, especially if they incorporated his suggestion
to increase the maximum number of different materials to six. He believes they should
strive for consistency rather than be too subjective.

In response to a question, it was clarified that color and materials are counted separately,
and the requirement for variations in architecture every 30 to 50 feet would ensure color
variation.

Mr. Prestwich asked for the Commission’s input on setting a maximum allowed amount of
glass to avoid buildings like those on Fort Union Boulevard that are all glass on the upper
stories. He also suggested tabling the matter until Staff had the opportunity to incorporate
the Commission’s proposed changes.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.      There were no public comments.       The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved the Planning Commission TABLE amendments to the
City’s Commercial Architectural Standards to the March 27, 2025 Planning
Commission Meeting. Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion. The motion
passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.     MINUTES APPROVAL – FEBRUARY 27, 2025.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of February 27, 2025, as reported. Commissioner
Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that a joint Planning Commission and City Council Work Session
was planned for Tuesday, April 15, 2025, at 6:00 p.m. to discuss the General Plan. Dinner
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                13
March 13, 2025


will begin at 5:00 p.m.    Attendance was not mandatory, but he encouraged all
Commissioners to attend.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:16 PM.
