                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            March 27, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-2008, Conditional Use Home Occupation, “The Weekend Place”
                 at 3009 West Sanborn Drive. Applicant – AnnJanette Jenson


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2008, “The Weekend Place,” at 3009
West Sanborn Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The applicant may care for up to three (3) clients per day.
    6. One full-time, non-resident employee is permitted. Employee must use off street parking.
    7. Applicant or employee must be present in the home when clients are there.
    8. Applicant may provide 24-hour care, amending the qualification relating to business hours.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “The Weekend Place,” to
be located at 3009 West Sanborn Drive. The property is 0.29- acre and is in the southwest
section of the city. The home is on lot 338 in the Summerfield Phase 3 subdivision and is zoned
R-4 (10,000-sf minimum). The neighboring properties are also zoned R-4. The home is a
rambler and has approximately 1750- sf above grade with a finished basement. The attached
garage is 3-car with an extra-wide driveway on the northwest side.
The applicant, Ms. Jenson, is requesting approval of a conditional use - home occupation permit
to be able to provide in-home, short-term care for people with special needs or disabilities. This
could be respite care, vacation care, etc. Ms. Jenson states that she is a nurse and has
experience providing care for those with special needs. She is asking for permission to care for
up to three people per day. Ms. Jenson is requesting one non-resident employee, part- or full-
 Report by: LH
time, depending on the need. The employee would be provided off-street parking, and clients
would drop their loved one off one-at-a-time on the driveway as shown on the parking plan.
A diagram shows the areas of the home that are to be used for the business. Her proposal is to
use around 25% of the main floor space solely for client care. The business use and personal
use of some rooms will overlap.
This application comes to the commission because the applicant is requesting business activity
after 7 pm and overnight, which will require the Planning Commission to approve changes to the
Qualifications for a Home Occupation. This application is a new type of request so staff would
also like the Planning Commission’s thoughts. The applicant is not requesting a residential group
home (which do not come before the Planning Commission) or a child day- care (which do), but
somewhere in between. The impacts to the neighborhood from this type of a business, such as
traffic and noise, would seem to be much lower than either a group home or a daycare business.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
allowing a maximum of three clients per day, applicant may offer 24-hour care, clients will be
attended at all times and that employee parking must be off-street.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report, one public comment in support of the application had been
received.


 Attachments

 The following items are attached:

          1.     Application
          2.     Transportation/Site Plan
          3.     Street View, Aerial View
          4.     Public Notice including Area Map




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to follow the
rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance found in Title 18, Chapter
190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of use. As the
intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home occupations are reviewed
and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only sees applications that are requesting
permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the
ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.060 Fixed standards.
Permitted home occupations and conditional use home occupations must comply with these fixed
standards at all times. The applicant shall submit drawings, sketches, documentation and/or
photos as required by staff to demonstrate compliance with these standards.

(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed,
volunteer, or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located. And only
one nonresident employee may work at the home at one time regardless of the number of home
occupations.
 Report by: LH
(8) Designating Areas of Property to Be Used. The home occupation applicant must designate the
portion of the home, accessory structure, yard, attached or detached garage dedicated as the
principal location for business activities.



18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations
must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are
unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may
pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

(1) Hours. With the exception of short term rentals, no visitors in conjunction with the home
occupation (clients, patrons, employees, volunteers, students, pupils, etc.) shall be permitted
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.




18.190.050 Conditional use home occupation.
(1) The planning commission will hold a public hearing for home occupation applications that meet
all of the fixed standards but are unable to meet all of the qualifications or have been referred by
the planning manager.

(2) The planning commission may deny, approve, or approve with any of the conditions included in
RCC 18.190.080, Conditional use permit required. The planning commission may also alter or
waive any of the qualifications described in RCC 18.190.070. The planning commission may not
alter or waive any of the fixed standards of RCC 18.190.060.

(3) Applications for conditional use home occupation permits will be noticed for a public hearing
before the planning commission. Notices will be sent to property owners within 300 feet of the
applicant property at least 10 days prior to the hearing and a notice will be posted on the city’s
webpage.

(4) The applicant will be responsible to pay fees associated with the noticing and public hearing.

(5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home occupations.

(6) Appeals of the planning commission decision must be made within 30 days of the decision by
submitting a notice of appeal to the board of adjustment as set forth in RCC 18.195.100. [Ord. 24-
17 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 21-19 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 20-05 § 1 (Exh. A); amended during 2011 recodification;
Ord. 07-12 § 1. Code 1997 § 12-207-025.]




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, March 27, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd.
                                               to take public comment on the following application:
                               AnnJanette Jenson is seeking approval for a home-based business,
“The Weekend Place,” an in-home short-term respite care for disabled persons to be located in the
Jenson home at 3009 West Sanborn Drive.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149. Comments must be
received by 5:00 pm the day of the meeting.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
