                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                 AUGUST 10, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Acting Chair                      Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Lisa Halversen, Planner
Monique Mortensen                               Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Darren Park

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

In the absence of Chair Jon Gilchrist, Commissioner Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order
at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Pledge was led by Commissioner Darren Park.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     MCNEIL AUTO, PLZ-23-8013, AN AMENDMENT TO A PREVIOUSLY
              APPROVED COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN TO BE LOCATED ON 1.5 ACRES
              IN THE M-1 (MANUFACTURING LIGHT INDUSTRIAL) ZONE LOCATED AT
              3311 WEST 12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT - PETE MCNEIL

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and explained that the application
is for an Amended Commercial Site Plan for McNeil Auto. The property is 1.5 acres in size
in the M-1 (Manufacturing Light Industrial) Zone. The subject property is located at 3311
West 12600 South. Mr. Prestwich reported that the building planned in the back, which was
previously called Phase 2, will be a NAPA building. Mr. Prestwich shared an image of the
site and explained that the site was located on a corner lot with frontage on 12600 South
and Verona Creek Way. Verona Creek Way is a neighborhood street that goes down into
the Castlewood Estates Subdivision. As for the surrounding zoning, there is M-1 to the east
and west and R-3 to the south. The proximity to the R-3 Zone and the Castlewood Estates
Subdivision neighborhood played a role in the overall design of the project.

Notices were sent as required. Mr. Prestwich reported that a comment came in late from a
neighbor who lives immediately south. That comment was shared with the Commission.
The application and notice of the public hearing were shared. Mr. Prestwich further
discussed the M-1 Zone. He explained that M-1 has slightly different restrictions and allows
uses that other zones in the City do not. The Site Plan was shared. In 2021, there was a
hearing and some of the site was approved with the idea that more would come forward in
the future. In 2022, the rest of the site was designed and there were modifications to what
was approved with the first approval. That approval was still in place and the applicant was
working toward being able to build. There is an existing shop and the intention was to add
an addition and a new building. The parking shown will mostly accommodate the NAPA
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
August 10, 2023

building but it would also be used for existing shop customers. A drive approach would be
added as well as landscape buffering. The six-foot concrete wall would remain.

Mr. Prestwich explained that the applicant was progressing toward the Building Permit phase
and had gone through some different contractors. The new contractor looked at the building
plans and asked questions about the choices. The existing plans would add approximately
$180,000 to the construction costs. It was suggested by the Building Official that it be done
differently but the cost would be $30,000 in additional design work. The contractor wondered
if it would be possible to change the construction type so there was a block wall on the
outside. It was determined that this could be done, but the item would need to return to the
Planning Commission for consideration and approval.

Mr. Prestwich shared what was previously approved. The brick played off of what was on
the building out front. Part of the challenge was that it did not make a distinction between
the two uses. Mr. Prestwich shared what was now proposed. The building would be
Concrete Masonry Unit (“CMU”) or block cement in a tan color with a white cap along the
top. The footprint of the building would remain the same, but there was a new garage door
proposed. The more modern and brighter color had been proposed to create contrast.
Mr. Prestwich reminded the Commissioners that the property is in the M-1 Zone, which has
a separate set of standards. The proposed building met all of the standards within the M-1
Zone. Since there are no architectural standards in the M-1 Zone, Staff had to fall back to
the Site Plan Review and Standards section of the Code, under Title 18.215, which states
the following:

   •   “(ii) Prohibited Materials. Concrete block buildings may be allowed but must be of
       quality design (such as combinations of split-face block and standard block), and
       must receive approval by the Planning Commission. This type of building shall be
       limited to the C-R, C-N, and M-1 zones only.”

The proposal met that language, as it is concrete block. Mr. Prestwich shared an example
of a split-face block and a standard block. It was up to the Planning Commission to
determine what a “quality design” was. An image of a block building in the C-R Zone was
shared for reference. Mr. Prestwich discussed the preferred design submitted by the
applicant. However, the architect also designed different options, including one with brown
banding along the top and mid-way down as well as one with a third band. The all-tan
version was a clean design that had a more modern look. It was similar to what was seen
in other cities. Ultimately, the Planning Commission would determine what made sense.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the view on the south property line showed the trees and the
wall out. He clarified that this was done to make it possible to see the building. It did not
indicate that there would not be trees or a wall. Everything except for the building would
remain the same as what was approved previously. Trees were proposed in the area, which
included elm trees. The comment received from a nearby neighbor asked that the tree type
be changed to Norwegian Pines instead. Mr. Prestwich reminded the Commissioners that
the trees were approved previously and the applicant was not requesting an amendment
there. The trees that were approved met the ordinance.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
August 10, 2023

Commissioner Park asked if the trees had been specified already or if it was up to the
applicant to determine. Mr. Prestwich reported that the trees were specified within the
previous approval. Chair Cluff wondered if there were mock-ups available that showed the
existing building. She believed the existing building was red brick. Mr. Prestwich shared a
sample image. Commissioner Park noted that the new renderings with the light-colored
building did not show the addition to the existing building. He wanted to know if the addition
would still be done. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the addition was still approved but the
applicant wanted to focus on the NAPA building currently. NAPA will vacate its existing
building and move over to the new building to stay within Riverton. Commissioner Park
asked about the distance between the two buildings once the addition was added. Mr.
Prestwich estimated that the distance would be 25 feet or so.

The applicant, Pete McNeil, introduced himself to the Commission. He explained that NAPA
had concerns that the building with the red brick design was identical to the existing building.
NAPA did not want there to be any confusion. There was a request to have some variation
to make sure that their building had an original look and design. This was a cost-saving
factor but would also ensure that there was not any confusion moving forward. Chair Cluff
asked about the color that had been proposed. Mr. McNeil explained that the intention was
to create something more modern in nature. A brick sample had been provided and was
sent in an email. It was a neutral tan/beige kind of color.

There was discussion about the proposed banding. Mr. McNeil explained that he was open
to either option. The reason the different banding proposals had been submitted was to
share some different design looks. If there was something that the Commission preferred,
that could be the design that moved forward. The banding would not add a lot to the cost.

Commissioner Cannon asked for a brief history of NAPA and McNeil in Riverton. Mr. McNeil
reported that they were celebrating their 40th year in the market. There was a towing
business as well as two repair facilities. It was important to continue the mechanic trade,
but the industry was showing that there would be a 40% deficit of technicians. That would
cause prices to increase. As a result, the apprentice program was created. Three years
ago, NAPA also adopted the program nationally, and now there are over 800 candidates
throughout the country enrolled in the apprentice program. It was anticipated that it would
continue to grow. Part of the NAPA building would be used for teaching.

The Commission asked about the reorientation of the bay door on the north side and the
addition. There were questions about whether there was enough space to use that bay
door. Mr. McNeil clarified that the bay door would not have a lot of use, but had been added
for convenience. There had been some concern about only having one access door.

Commissioner Park wondered if there would be continuity on the property with two different
building designs. Mr. McNeil reported that the buildings would look different. Having similar
buildings could confuse customers and that was not desirable to NAPA. It was a significant
concern, so when it was discovered that there was an option to separate the look, NAPA
supported that. Commissioner Park wondered who would own the NAPA building. Mr.
McNeil clarified that he would own the building itself and NAPA would use it as a distribution
center. There was also space identified for teaching the apprentices. Commissioner Park
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              4
August 10, 2023

wanted to know what NAPA would do with the existing building across the street. Mr. McNeil
believed that the building would be vacated as the lease ended in March. He thought there
had already been communication with the owners of that building.

Chair Cluff asked about the trees. She wondered if the applicant was interested in changing
the trees to an evergreen variety. Mr. McNeil felt fairly neutral about that. There was a
desire for the site to look good. If the Commission wanted to see a change to the type of
trees, that could be done. Commissioner Mortensen liked the banding that had been
proposed for the building and wondered if it would be possible to make that a similar color
to the red brick. That might tie the two buildings together. Mr. McNeil believed that could
be accommodated. The intention was to keep things neutral. Commissioner Mortensen
praised Mr. McNeil for the apprenticeship program work.

Chair Cluff believed there was some support for the banding that had been proposed. She
wondered if there was a preference between the different banding options. She leaned
towards the two lines of banding. Example images of the two options were shared.
Commissioner Park noted that he was open to allowing the tree type to be left to the
discretion of the property owner. There could be continued discussion with the neighboring
property owners about the trees, but he felt sufficient concessions had been made. He did
not want to require a change to something that had already been approved.

The public hearing was opened. There were no comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ 23-8013 – McNeil’s
Site Plan Amendment, with the following conditions:

      1.     All requirements and conditions approved by the Planning Commission
             in the August 25, 2022, Site Plan approval are still in effect.

      2.     The building color, design, and architecture will match the rendering
             shown to the Commission in this application:

             a.      Approve the two-band option with trim above the bay doors.

      3.     Applicant may choose any columnar tree.

Commissioner Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     None.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                      5
August 10, 2023

4.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

       A.     Discussion Regarding Artificial Turf.

Mr. Prestwich explained that there was a discussion item scheduled about artificial turf. It
had not been noticed as a public hearing and there was no proposal to change any
ordinances. The intention was to receive some feedback from the Planning Commission. A
few Council Members reached out to City Staff about some instances of artificial turf in the
City. There was a desire to determine how to address those types of situations. Whatever
feedback was received from the Planning Commission would be shared with the City
Council. From there, it would be possible to have discussions about how to proceed.

Water conversation was an important topic and it had become a priority for a lot of residents.
The City received numerous calls from residents asking if it was possible to remove the sod
in their yards. Mr. Prestwich noted that there were good examples of artificial turf and not-
so-good examples of artificial turf. If the turf was not installed properly, particularly on slopes,
bunching could occur. He shared sample images with the Commission. Most of the
examples he had found were in residential settings rather than commercial settings.

The current City Code was relevant to artificial turf in a few sections. The first section
referenced was 18.135, which stated that front yard landscaping should be maintained in
the lawn, trees, other plantings, or landscape features. The City had been allowing the turf
to go in as a landscape feature, except for areas covered by driveways and structures.
Commercial landscaping had similar language in place. As for the section of City Code that
related to park strip landscaping, it referenced materials that minimized water use.

Mr. Prestwich referenced the Site Plan Development Standards. He explained that the
section applied specifically to Site Plans, which included commercial, quasi-public, and
multi-family sites. It stated that “in no case shall yards be maintained in artificial plantings.”
The section specifically prohibited the use of commercial, quasi-public, and multi-family sites
in the community. There was also a third standard, the Water Efficiency Standards. It was
modeled after the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District and applied to new projects. It
stated that landscaping meant any combination of living plants, natural features, and
structural features. It did not specify artificial turf, so if desired, specificity was needed.

If the City wants to allow for artificial turf throughout the community, some amendments
would need to be made to the existing language. Mr. Prestwich asked for feedback from
the Planning Commission on artificial turf and how to best move forward. Commissioner
Cannon referenced language that stated, “Such landscaping shall be done within one year
from the date of the occupancy of the building.” He wondered who enforced that and what
the consequences were. Mr. Prestwich noted that enforcement was often resident-driven
where Code Enforcement was involved. It was not possible to receive occupancy on a
commercial site without the landscaping in place. Single-family residential had one year.

Commissioner Park explained that his concerns related to the type and style of artificial turf
that would be allowed. There was high-quality turf but there was also lower quality turf.
Installation and maintenance was also a factor. Since there were varying types of turf, any
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   6
August 10, 2023

updates to the ordinances would need to add clarity about the turf requirements.
Discussions were had about examples in the community. It was important to maintain a
consistent look throughout the City. Commissioner Park believed City Staff would need to
define what types were acceptable to have. Otherwise, not all of the landscaping would be
aesthetically pleasing. It was noted that the artificial turf that looked good was still a fairly
new product in the marketplace. He was not sure how it would look over time.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter, suggested that City Staff look into how the industry defined the
different grades of artificial turf. That might be a good starting point. Mr. Carter pointed out
that the more specificity there is in the Code language, the greater risk there will be that the
Code will fall out of date. He hoped there would be a way to define things in a more general
way but still provide some clarity. Chair Cluff noted that turf will function differently than
more natural products in terms of drainage. She felt that needed to be considered. It was
important to determine the purpose of the landscaping and whether artificial turf would meet
the purpose. If something is added to allow artificial turf, it might be necessary to amend
the maintenance standards as well to account for turf issues.

Commissioner Cannon suggested that direction be received from some sort of study. He
wondered what direction the City was able to take. Mr. Carter explained that the City has
the general, lawful authority to preserve aesthetic standards and landscaping standards in
the community. Requiring artificial turf instead of permitting it is not something that would
be appropriate. However, it would be possible to allow artificial turf in certain areas where it
made sense to place the material. Commissioner Park noted that a specific manufacturer
could not be required, but if there were grades of artificial turf out there, a certain grade
would be appropriate. Mr. Carter confirmed this. He also noted that it would also be
worthwhile to look into how long artificial turf lasted and how it changed over time.

Chair Cluff thought it made sense to have stricter regulations for commercial entities. The
ground coverage would be much greater in those instances. She believed in those cases,
the artificial turf should be something that the Planning Commission needed to approve.
There should be a reason articulated to explain why artificial turf was desired. Chair Cluff
liked having more flexibility for residents, especially in the backyard. She wondered if the
City ever needs to dig into park strips. This was confirmed. As a result, she thought it would
be wise to prohibit the use of artificial turf in those areas.

Mr. Carter believed it would be appropriate to state that artificial turf cannot be installed
above locations where utilities were found. Mr. Prestwich noted that there was a maximum
amount of rock that was allowed in commercial landscaping. He wondered if the Planning
Commission was interested in there being a maximum allowed for artificial plantings.
Commissioner Park believed there would need to be specificity about what artificial plantings
were. Mr. Carter agreed that there would need to be a clear definition provided. Chair Cluff
did not believe a percentage should be specified.

Mr. Prestwich thanked the Commissioners for their input on artificial turf in the community.
The discussion would likely be brought back to the Planning Commission again in the future.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                              7
August 10, 2023

5.    MINUTES

      A.    Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of May 25, 2023.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Minutes from the
Planning Commission Meeting on May 25, 2023, as reported. Commissioner
Mortensen seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:32 p.m.
