                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               FEBRUARY 22, 2024

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Evan Matheson, Chair                             Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                      Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Jon Gilchrist                                    Matt Casell, City Engineer
Monique Mortensen
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Evan Matheson called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     THE CHILDREN'S VILLA, PLZ-24-2006, A CONDITIONAL USE
              APPLICATION FOR A HOME PRESCHOOL LOCATED AT 3558 W. NEW
              PRIVATE DRIVE. APPLICANT - ROBYN MONS.

Planner Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report and stated that this request is unique
because it involves a Spanish-immersion preschool. It is for an in-home preschool for
children aged two to five and is located at 3558 West New Private Drive in the northwest
section of the City. The home is located at the end of a private drive. The property itself is
nearly one-half acre in size and zoned RR-22. Most of the neighboring property is also
zoned either RR-22 or R2. The lot has access to 3600 West, which runs north and south
near the New Private Drive. The home has two stories, 2,800 square feet above grade, a
finished basement, a three-car garage, and an extra-wide driveway.

The applicant, Robyn Mons was unable to be present until April and asked Ms. Halversen
to present the application. Ms. Mons submitted a statement that was provided to the
Commission Members. She is proposing a Spanish immersion preschool in her basement
with 12 children per session, which is allowed by Code. She only plans to have eight
students to begin with. Ms. Mons would like to start with one morning session Monday
through Thursday. If that goes well, she would like to add an afternoon session on Tuesdays
and Thursdays. Ms. Mons is a Certified Life Coach and will hire a woman who rents her
basement and speaks Spanish as the Spanish teacher for the preschool. Staff received an
email from a neighbor in support of the preschool.

Ms. Mons has visited with her neighbors along the private drive to explain the situation and
get their input. Those she spoke to were in favor of the request. The layout of the area was
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  2
February 22, 2024


described. Ms. Halversen reported that when she visited the site, she noticed cars parked
in the turnaround. She was informed by Ms. Mons that the cars belong to the neighbors and
park there frequently. Ms. Mons did not want to disrupt her relationship with the neighbors
and plans to instruct the parents to continue past the end of the private drive onto her private
driveway where there is a turnaround in front of her three-car garage. She will ensure that
parents are aware of this before they drop off their children.

Ms. Halversen reported that the State was excited about this application because they feel
that her business model for a Spanish immersion preschool will be in high demand. One of
her neighbors has already enrolled her child. Some children will live within walking distance.
Ms. Mons hopes that if she begins with eight children per session, that two or three will live
in the neighborhood and will be able to walk. The Transportation and Parking Plan was
presented. Ms. Mons’ basement will be used as the learning space. The second floor is
where a game room is located that will be used occasionally by the children as well. A view
of the front of the home was presented as well as the driveway. Ms. Halversen reviewed
the State requirements that indicate that child preschool classes are considered a child
group activity and have special allowances in the ordinance. They are allowed more
vehicles, more vehicle trips, and more visitors. The applicant will be allowed to have up to
three sessions but currently, she would like to have only one with permission for two in the
future. She understands that even though she is allowed a maximum of 12 children per
session, she is only allowed 12 vehicles or a total of 24 trips per day. If she has an extra
session, the number of vehicle trips will not increase.

A question was raised regarding how the Commission can approve a private lane that is
shared between homeowners for a business that will generate more traffic than was
planned. City Attorney, Ryan Carter, stated that there could be more than one answer to
that question but explained that more facts would need to be on the record before
determining whether there is a perceived impact on the private lane by the others who share
it. They would have to be present to give testimony. However, as a general rule, when
someone applies for a Conditional Use Permit, if they meet the ordinance, they are entitled
to it. There are no facts on record that suggest that there are any questions as to whether
this would be permissible on the private lane. Sometimes people share easements and
have limitations in the language of the documents that establish the easements that create
a scope for their use. In the absence of anything on the record, however, the Code allows
any homeowner to have a home occupation as long as they have a Traffic Plan. Mr. Carter
suggested that the public hearing be conducted to see if they can yield additional facts.

A question was raised on the width of the private drive and if it can accommodate a car going
in and coming out at the same time. Ms. Halversen stated that it is pretty narrow at around
20 feet. She stated that the private lane serves three homes. Only one car will enter
Ms. Mons’ personal driveway and she agreed to stagger the times since there is no room
on the narrow driveway for multiple cars.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked if the basement is considered an Accessory Dwelling Unit
(“ADU”). Ms. Halversen stated that she does not have an ADU Permit for the property but
agreed to double-check. Chair Matheson asked if it needs to be approved as an ADU.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
February 22, 2024


Ms. Halversen confirmed that an ADU permit is required in some circumstances. Whether
or not these circumstances require an ADU permit has not been investigated. Mr. Carter
stated that it is difficult to have a meaningful hearing without the applicant being present. He
suggested the Commission hold the public hearing and then table the matter to the next
meeting.

A concern was raised regarding the lack of a sidewalk that goes around to the gate on the
side of the home. Access issues were discussed. Ms. Halversen did not believe that was
part of the qualifications, but the applicant should show a diagram of the path that will be
taken by the children. A question was raised about the ownership of the turnaround.
Ms. Halversen stated that it is not part of Ms. Mons’ property. Ms. Halversen also confirmed
that there will be two adults present with the children at all times.

Commissioner Park asked about timing and was of the understanding that the applicants
need approval from the City before contacting the State. Ms. Mons then needs to maintain
that licensure in order to keep her City Business License. Ms. Halversen stated that the
applicant has started the process of obtaining State licensure, which can be done
concurrently.

Commissioner Cluff asked about grass accessibility and recalled that her son attended a
preschool that had a grass path, which was allowed. She also commented that if it becomes
problematic to use the private drive, 3600 West could be used. Ms. Halversen confirmed
that it was an alternative recommended by the applicant where cars could line up along 3600
West. From a safety perspective, Ms. Halversen thought it would be safer to use the private
drive rather than have children come and go from the busy road.

Commissioner Gilchrist did not object to approving an ADU in the basement but stated that
the Code allows a home business in the ADU, but it seemed that the home business would
have to be owned by the renter. He was concerned that the homeowner wants to own the
business and utilize the rental space for the business while the renter is still occupying the
home. Mr. Carter stated that it depends on the arrangement Ms. Mons has with the tenant.

Commissioner Cannon commented that there is a lot of speculation that only the applicant
or the neighbors can answer. If there are eight students or two per car, that equates to four
additional car trips in the morning and four in the afternoon if there are two sessions. He felt
there was too much speculation without the applicant being present.

Commissioner Matheson referenced the letter from the applicant, which was submitted and
made part of the record.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton commented that there are a lot of unknowns and suggested the
matter be continued until the applicant can be present. One of the questions was if they are
granting a conditional use permit for a business in an ADU that may not even be of record,
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
February 22, 2024


which entity should file the business application. Another issue was granting access on a
private lane. He stated that the Commission does not have enough information to take
action.

A question was raised as to whether there are Covenants, Codes, and Restrictions
(“CC&Rs”) for the private lane. It was reported that Ms. Mons spoke with one of the
neighbors but had not been able to contact the other. Chair Matheson was concerned that
too much is unknown and recommended the matter be tabled or continued to a future
meeting.

Commissioner Rushton commented on an issue on 3600 West where someone claimed to
have received approval but did not. Anytime a request involves crossing a private lane
proper documentation should be required. Mr. Carter suggested that the applicant be given
an opportunity to present evidence at the next hearing on the topic. He stated that it is the
duty of the Commission to stay true to the City’s ordinances and not enforce a private
property right. The argument for the applicant could become a situation where those who
had an opportunity to speak against the matter were notified. The City then has an issue
which is what facts they have on record serve as a basis to deny a Conditional Use Permit.
If they do not have any evidence of an obvious property right and the impacts of the request
cannot be mitigated, the absence of evidence can be problematic in the event of an appeal.
In the absence of contrary evidence, the request can be denied.

Mr. Carter stated that requesting information and requiring the applicant to present evidence
on the topic was determined to be reasonable. Staff would be in touch with the applicant
and let them know of the Commission’s concerns. Ms. Halversen explained that there are
three homes on the private lane. One belongs to Ms. Mons. She spoke to another
homeowner who had no objection to what was proposed. The other home is a rental and
Ms. Mons has been unable to contact the homeowner. Staff would continue to work with
the applicant.

Commissioner Gilchrist moved that the Planning Commission TABLE PLZ-24-2006,
Children's Villa at 3558 West New Private Drive with a recommendation to staff to
communicate the concerns raised regarding the Private Drive and the ADU. The
motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       B.     STONE RIDGE VET CLINIC, PLZ-24-2001, A CONDITIONAL USE
              APPLICATION TO COVER THEIR DOG-RUN AREA. APPLICANT - DR.
              CLAY CANNON

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for a
Conditional Use Permit for the expansion of a legal non-conforming use. An aerial map of
the area was displayed. Stone Ridge Clinic is a veterinary clinic located off 1300 West in
the northeast part of the City that has been in business since 1989. The clinic existed before
the subdivision that was built around it. The applicants approached the City in 2003 and
were granted permission for an addition to the clinic. As per the ordinances, if a use existed
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    5
February 22, 2024


and was approved by the City at some point in the past and the City changes, the ordinances
that regulate can continue to exist. That is often referred to as grandfathering and is the
continuation of a legal non-conforming use. As a result, the applicant can make updates or
repairs to the business, building, or site. They can also request additions to the business.
In this case, what is proposed is a small addition to the backside of the building on the interior
of the compound.

A public notice was sent out and due to confusion, a second notice was sent with a picture
of the site plan. Concerns were received about the first notice. Mr. Prestwich reported that
the proposed addition covers the dog runs that are outside that are used temporarily while
the interior dog runs are cleaned. The desire is to cover them to provide a better space for
the animals. There is currently a six-foot masonry wall with a buffer between the
neighborhood. The clinic is zoned R-3 with R-22 to the east. Everything around it is zoned
R-3. The proposal is to add covered dog runs. The request falls under the special exception
section of the Code that allows for the continuation, maintenance, repair, alteration,
additions, enlargements, and the moving of a non-conforming building, use, and lot.
Mr. Prestwich reported that the request must be approved by the Planning Commission.
Staff concluded that more outdoor space was to be added and not capacity to the clinic.
Views of the property were presented. Board and batten will be used on the areas shown
in yellow and will match the existing siding on the building. Staff recommended approval
with the three conditions enumerated in the Staff Report.

Commissioner Cannon reported that he and Dr. Cannon are not related but he has taken
good care of his animals for years.

A question was raised about whether the open property belongs to Dr. Cannon.
Mr. Prestwich was unsure and stated that the property is in the name of several LLCs with
similar names. With regard to the elevation views, it was confirmed that there will be a sound
barrier with board and batten from the six-foot level of the masonry fence up to the roof line
on the north and west sides.

A question was raised about what it means to gradually eliminate the use of land, buildings,
or lots. Mr. Carter responded that the best way to interpret it would be to read it in harmony
with the State Statute on the topic. If there is a legal non-conforming use on a property but
use is discontinued for a certain length of time, the property owner stands to lose it. Inactivity
of the use of the land forces the property owner in the direction of code compliance. That is
not an issue here. Mr. Carter explained that a legal non-conforming use cannot be taken
away under any other circumstances.

Commissioner Gilchrist commented that when he read that he assumed that the applicants
have a right to continue to operate in the fashion that they had been but not necessarily the
right to grow. In response to a question raised, Mr. Carter explained that staff’s
understanding is that there will be no growth in terms of the number of kennels. The
proposed addition, however, creates a better quality of life for the animals while they are
kenneled. It also stands to create some mitigation to sounds that can emanate from the
property.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
February 22, 2024



Marni Cannon identified herself as Dr. Cannon’s daughter and stated that they are co-
owners of Stone Ridge Veterinary Clinic. She referred to the photo of the neighborhood and
explained that the clinic runs north and south and she owns the home to east. The
undeveloped area next to the clinic is part of her one-half-acre property. The one-half acre
behind her home is a bare lot that is owned by the clinic. Dr. Cannon owns the other home.
She noted that they own the entire property along one side of the clinic. Ms. Cannon stated
that what is proposed will not increase their boarding capacity. There is a back door where
staff will take the dogs to the roofed area while the indoor kennels are cleaned. Afterward,
the dogs are immediately returned to their runs. The addition will also create a sound buffer
for the neighborhood to ensure the comfort of the dogs and the neighbors. Ms. Cannon also
stated that dogs will never be left outside unattended.

Dr. Cannon reported that he built the subdivision and previously owned all of the surrounding
property. Where the clinic is located was actually Phase 3 of the subdivision which was
constructed in the 1990s. They completed Phase 1, which was the area north of Stone
Ridge Lane. Everything west of the clinic was Phase 2. He began to look for property to
move to with the intent of demolishing the existing building; however, several neighbors
approached him and urged him to remain in his current location. Dr. Cannon stated that the
first notice for the current request referred to expanding the boarding in error. The error had
since been corrected.

Commissioner Mortensen stated that she does a lot of rescue work and was aware that
there are a lot of dogs that need homes. Dr. Cannon takes all of the dogs from Riverton
Animal Control. She was asked what they do if they exceed capacity at the clinic. Ms.
Cannon stated that they have never exceeded their capacity and currently they have a
capacity for 45 large runs with smaller cages within the clinic. The only time that might be
an issue would be over major holidays when they are booked. The clinic staff actively tries
to find homes for the pets and so far they have managed to do so without euthanasia. The
exceptions to that are medically unfit animals.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the hours of operation of the clinic. Ms. Cannon stated
that if Animal Control or the Police Department take in an animal after hours, they have
access to the building and place the animal inside. If a pet requires care after hours, the
staff attends to it but that is only for pets brought in by the City. They do not care for
emergency patients after hours and refer them to a 24-hour emergency clinic. The clinic is
open from 8:00 AM to 5:30 PM Monday through Friday, 8:00 AM to 1:30 PM on Saturdays,
and they are closed on Sundays. Boarded pets are let out twice per day on Sundays.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Dennis Hansen identified himself as a former Planning Commission Member and asked if
the height of the new roof will be consistent with the current building. It was confirmed that
it will not be as tall. Dr. Cannon explained that the new roof will be located along the south
side of the building. Mr. Hansen expressed support for the proposal. He reported that he
has lived across the street from the clinic for the last 26 years and the Cannons have been
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          7
February 22, 2024


great neighbors. The dogs are let out at 8:00 AM and are fed at 5:00 PM. He appreciated
Dr. Cannon’s effort to continue to improve the facility.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cannon thanked former Planning Commission Member Dennis Hansen for
his service to the City.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-24-2001,
“Stone Ridge Veterinary Clinic” at 1381 West Stone Ridge Lane subject to the
following conditions:

      1.    The site and structures may be added upon as shown in the plans
            presented to the Commission.

      2.    The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with all
            applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, and applicable
            Building and Fire Codes.

      3.    The applicant must obtain a Building Permit for the addition and have
            the addition inspected by the Riverton Building Department as required
            by City Ordinance.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Mortensen. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    02/08/24 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of February 8, 2024, as recorded. Commissioner
Mortensen seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:16 PM.
