                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             October 12, 2023
Subject:          PLZ-23-2029 Conditional Use, “Marx Private Lane”, to be located at 11997
                  South Redwood Road. Applicant- Ryan Marx


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2029 “Marx Private Lane”, to be
located at 11997 South Redwood Road with the following conditions:

      1. Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      2. Approval is for one (1) additional lot access onto an existing private lane for a total of four
          (4) lots accessing the private lane.
      3. Private lane shall be at least 25-ft wide paved, drivable surface from Redwood Road to the
          new private driveway and any further east as necessary to meet requirements for a fire
          turnaround as determined by Unified Fire Authority.
      4. The new private lane shall be at least 20-ft wide paved drivable surface.
      5. Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the standards of
          the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      6. The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the standards of
          the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      7. The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and emergency response.
      8. Private lane shall be signed with “No Parking” Signs as required by Unified Fire Authority.
      9. The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall conform to
          Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not limited to width, number of
          driveways and separation distance between driveways.
      10. The private driveway shall be maintained by the homeowner, no City maintenance will be
          performed on the private driveway.
      11. Applicant shall obtain any permissions or agreements necessary to expand the use of the
          shared private lane.
      12. The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval from the Planning Commission prior to
          any construction commencing on the subdivision.




 Report by: TJP
 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use to add one additional lot to an existing private lane for
property located at 11997 South Redwood Road. The subject property is a 1-acre lot with an
existing house which uses the existing private lane for access. Two other lots also use the private
lane, both lots are 1-acre, but only one of them currently has a home on the lane. The oldest
house on the lane appears to have been built in 1986, but staff could not find how or when the
original private lane was approved. However, county records show the private lane is shared
ownership split three ways between the three lots who use the lane.

The subject property, and the two other lots on the private lane are each zoned RR-22 and each
has 1-acre. These are the last RR-22 zoned lots in the area. Property to the north, south and
east are zoned R-3. Property to the west, along Redwood Road (Denny’s Auto), is zoned
commercial.

There is an existing house on the subject property, it’s location and orientation limits the options for
the future subdivision of the lot. A new lot will need to be positioned to the south, making it
necessary to use a short segment of a new private lane to access the potential new lot.

So, the Commission is considering two questions for this private lane application. First, can the
applicant expand an existing private lane to add one new home? And second, can the applicant
stub a new, short private lane to access a potential new lot?

Private lanes are used to develop difficult properties. City Code states a preference for
development using public streets but recognizes public streets may be “impossible or impractical”,
on some properties. Staff believes this property should be considered for a private lane for
several reasons including:
    • There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master Transportation Plan.
    • No local streets are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property.
    • A private lane would not affect access by neighboring properties.
    • Other properties in the area with similar shapes were developed with private lanes.

City Code further states that an existing lane must be brought up to the current paving and width
standards if the owners want to add a new lot to the existing lane. Private lanes serving more
than 2 lots must have at least 25-ft of paved surface width and have an approved fire turnaround.

Recommendations
Staff believes this meets the criteria for a private lane and is therefore recommending approval
with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site, including the other owners of
the shared private lane, and notice posted on the City’s web-page.

Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1. Public Notice including Area Map.
           2. Application.
           3. Conceptual Site Plan.



 Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
     1- Does this property qualify for a private lane?
     2- What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
           (Such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length).

 18.35.070 Lots located on private lanes.
 (1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
 residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
 impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
 land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
 approved by the planning commission.

 Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least two
 of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):
           (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
           public street; or

           (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided with
           public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of any
           adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

           (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as required
           by the master transportation plan.

 Additionally, a private lane is subject to these requirements

(2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully
improved with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm
drainage methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s
recommendation. All portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the
standards as listed subsequently:

      (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.

      (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.

      (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
      meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.

      (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
      additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city
      up to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
      determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (2) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.


 Report by: TJP
(3) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

(4) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
required by city officials or workers.

(5) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
streets shall apply to all buildings and uses adjoining private
rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required
private lane width. No portion of the private lane may be
counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual
lots. On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is
occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private lane
area may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size
(see Figure 1).


(6) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.

(7) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.

(8) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(9) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(10) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(11) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(12) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.


Fire Requirements for Private Lanes

                 Drivable Lane Width                                         Parking Rules
                      20-26 feet                                        No Parking both sides.
                      26-32 feet                                        No Parking on one side.
                   32 feet and over                                  Parking allowed on both sides.




Report by: TJP
                                                                  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                                         The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a
                                                         public hearing on Thursday, October 12, 2023 at 6:30
                                                         p.m. at the Riverton City Municipal Building located at
                                                         12830 S. Redwood Road to take public comment on
                                                         the following application:
Ryan Marx is requesting approval of a conditional use for a private lane to be located at 11997
S. Redwood Road. Private lanes may be allowed in Riverton City if the Commission determines
the property qualifies based on criteria found in Riverton City Code including RCC 18.25.070 which
can be viewed on the City’s webpage. The Planning Commission will evaluate the application
and take public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake
County property records indicate that you own property within 300 feet of the subject property.
Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling
801-208-3149.




                                  Subject
                                  Property




            N


                                                 HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the
meeting. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the
meeting. Public comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-
3149. All comments submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for
review by the Planning Commission.




              12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
dotloop signature verification: dtlp.us/XZPx-O1VE-Qlod




                                                         Marx Subdivision

                                                           11997 S Redwood Road


                                                             Ryan Marx
                                                            12283 S Margaret Rose Drive
                                                                 Riverton Utah 84065




                                   Ryan Marx




                                                    22nd                     September                2023




                                                                                          Ryan Marx
                                                                                                             dotloop verified
                                                                                                             09/22/23 3:25 PM MDT
                                                                                                             EHW6-QAHM-HQV0-EONZ
                                             Annie Cannon
