                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            March 27, 2025
Subject:         Ordinance Amendment 25-5003, Amending Riverton City Code Section
                 18.135.200, Temporary Commercial Uses, Addressing Temporary Commercial
                 Uses on Residential Property, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on
reasonably debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council
which has final decision authority for rezone applications.

Example Motions:

I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of amendments to the Riverton City
Code Section 18.135.200, Temporary Commercial Uses, addressing temporary commercial uses
on residential property, with the following changes:
       1.
       2.
       3.

OR

I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of amendments to the Riverton City Code
Section 18.135.200, Temporary Commercial Uses, addressing temporary commercial uses on
residential property.


Background

Riverton City periodically reviews sections of its land use code, and staff has been directed to
prepare such a review of Section 18.135.200 which regulates temporary commercial uses such
as Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and similar uses. Specifically, the review has examined
current standards which limit such uses to commercially zoned property. The code currently
reads:

         (1) Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed 60
         days in duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are
         not already established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not
         limited to, shaved ice stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary
Report by: TJP
3/25/2025
         commercial use may only be conducted on a commercially zoned parcel, except as described
         in RCC 18.190.090(16). Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a nuisance or
         hazard and shall conform to all requirements of this title. All trash will be removed and the
         property will be restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use has been
         terminated.

         (2) Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the planning department. At the
         discretion of the planning manager temporary commercial uses may be referred to the
         planning commission as conditional temporary commercial uses. In such cases the applicant
         will be responsible for the noticing fees.

The limitation to commercial property was made in part due to concerns with traffic volumes,
hours of operation, lighting, and similar issues which potentially create impacts detrimental to
residential areas. Should the City wish to extend temporary commercials to certain residential
properties where such impacts could be mitigated, limitations could be adopted to further minimize
potential impacts. Proposed limitations are:
    • Limit temporary commercial uses to vacant/undeveloped residential properties.
    • Limit temporary commercial uses to residential properties which have direct access to a
       major road, as defined in Riverton City Code
    • Require a Conditional Use Permit for any temporary commercial use on a residential
       property.
    • Limit allowed temporary commercial uses on residential properties to uses directly
       associated with holiday sales, namely Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and pumpkin
       patch/sales.

The attached amendment language reflects these limitations, and reads as follows:

         (1) Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed 60
         days in duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are
         not already established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not
         limited to, shaved ice stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary
         commercial use may only be conducted on a commercially zoned parcel or on
         vacant/undeveloped residential property, except as described in RCC 18.190.090(16).
         Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a nuisance or hazard and shall
         conform to all requirements of this title. All trash will be removed and the property will be
         restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use has been terminated.

         (2) Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the planning department. At the
         discretion of the planning manager temporary commercial uses may be referred to the
         planning commission as conditional temporary commercial uses. In such cases the applicant
         will be responsible for the noticing fees. A conditional use permit approved by the Planning
         Commission is required for a proposed temporary commercial use on a residential property.

         (3) Temporary commercial uses on residential properties are limited to property which has
         frontage on and direct access to an arterial or major collector road, as defined by Riverton
         City. Temporary commercial uses on residential property are limited to uses directly related
         to holiday sales, namely Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and pumpkin patch/sales.

Report by: TJP
3/25/2025
Any additional language, including changes to the proposed amendment, can be included in a
motion.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Draft amendment to 18.135.200




Report by: TJP
3/25/2025
18.135.200 Temporary commercial uses.
(1) Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed 60 days in
duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are not already
established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not limited to, shaved ice
stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary commercial use may only be conducted
on a commercially zoned parcel or on vacant/undeveloped residential property, except as described in
RCC 18.190.090(16). Temporary commercial uses shall not cause or create a nuisance or hazard and
shall conform to all requirements of this title. All trash will be removed and the property will be
restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use has been terminated.

(2) Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the planning department. At the discretion of the
planning manager temporary commercial uses may be referred to the planning commission as
conditional temporary commercial uses. In such cases the applicant will be responsible for the noticing
fees. A conditional use permit approved by the Planning Commission is required for a proposed
temporary commercial use on a residential property.

(3) Temporary commercial uses on residential properties are limited to property which has frontage on
and direct access to an arterial or major collector road, as defined by Riverton City. Temporary
commercial uses on residential property are limited to uses directly related to holiday sales, namely
Christmas tree lots, fireworks stands, and pumpkin patch/sales.

(34) Temporary commercial uses shall obtain and/or provide the following:

     (a) A Riverton City business license for commercial uses.

     (b) Property owner’s authorization.

     (c) Building or electrical permit (if necessary).

     (d) Plot plan showing the location of the use, buildings and structures, setbacks, parking, access
     to public streets and adjacent uses.

     (e) Hours of operation.

     (f) Salt Lake Valley health department approval (if necessary).

     (g) Fire department approval (if necessary).

     (h) Mass gathering permit (if necessary).
