                                 MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             September 25, 2025
Subject:          PLZ-25-1006, “Willard’s Farm Subdivision”, Preliminary Subdivision Plan
                  to be located near 3100 West 13400 South. Applicant – Alan Prince



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,and decisions are
based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission continue PLZ-25-1006 “Willard’s Farm Subdivision”, to
the next Planning Commission Meeting.

Background


This preliminary subdivision plan is the last public hearing in a series of public hearings for the
development of this property. The City Council Approved a Rezone of the property from RR-22
to R-3 on July 15, 2025. The Planning Commission approved a Conditional Use for a private
lane on the property on August 14, 2025.

The applicant applied for a subdivision soon after the PC approved the use of a private lane, and
city staff have reviewed their plans. There were a few redlines to address on the last review,
and staff proceeded with the public notice anticipating the plans would be corrected and returned
in time, however the applicant and his engineer need a little more time to work out some final
items on the drawings.


Public Notice and Recommend Actions
Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web- page.
Neighbors sent comments during the recent rezone and private lane hearings regarding fencing.

Staff is asking for this item to be continued to the next Planning Commission Meeting.

Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1. Public Notice including Area Map



 Report by: TJP
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                        The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on
                                        Thursday, September 25, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                        City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Road to take
                                        public comment on the following application:
Alan Prince is requesting approval of an application for a preliminary subdivision for “Willards Farm
Subdivision” a five (5) lot subdivision on 1.72-acres located near 3100 West 13400 South.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                     HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public, and public comments will be taken in the meeting. The staff report will be available for public
review through the City website prior to the meeting. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes
will be available following the meeting. Public comments for this item may also be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov
or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning
Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php. This link will take you to the applicable
meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review by the Planning Commission. Staff
reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                 12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
