                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 12, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-2017, “Firefly Roasters”, a Conditional Use application for a Home
                 Occupation to perform wholesale coffee bean roasting at a home located at
                 3726 West Merced Circle. Applicant – Jeremy Henrie


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2017, “Firefly Roasting”, at 3726 W.
Merced Circle with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. No business activity may take place outside the home before 7 am or after 7 pm.
    6. Applicant may employ one non-resident employee. Employee must use off-street parking.
    7. Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for business activities.
    8. Applicant must use roasting equipment with built-in air filtration that does not create outside
       odors.


Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Firefly Roasting,” at 3726
West Merced Circle. The property is 0.36-acre and is zoned R-3, as are surrounding properties.
The house is one-story with a basement and there is an attached 3-car garage and a detached
garage. The applicant desires to use half of his detached garage for his business.


Mr. Henrie, the applicant, proposes to roast green coffee beans in the detached garage. He will
sell the specialty product online on a subscription basis where orders are mailed to the customer.
He anticipates very few customers ever coming to the home, however, the home occupation
code allows for a maximum of eight customers per day. The property has a wide drive approach
 Report by: LH
on the west side of the house, providing ample parking space for a future employee or occasional
customer to park.


This application comes before the Planning Commission for two reasons. First, the applicant
proposes to use space in his garage for business purposes. The Riverton City Home Occupation
Code states that a proposal to use garage or accessory building space for business use requires
a conditional use permit and approval of the Planning Commission. Second, the roasting process
naturally creates odors. The fixed standards of the Home Occupation code state that a business
that creates odors is not eligible as a home occupation. Staff feels that the Planning Commission
is best qualified to decide if Mr. Henrie’s proposal meets code requirements.


Mr. Henrie has purchased a roaster with a specialty filtering system that will allow him to vent the
air from the roasting process inside the garage instead of outside into the air. The roaster that he
will be using requires no modifications to the building or any additional power. Mr. Henrie wishes
to present information from the company that produces the filtration system to the
commissioners. In addition, he volunteered to do roaster demonstrations for any concerned
neighbors.


The commissioners do not have discretion to change the fixed standards, but as the land use
authority they may make determinations regarding any conditions that may bring the business
proposal into compliance with the standards.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
that 50% of the garage space may be used for the business, one employee may be present, and
that roasting will only be done with equipment that filters odors.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                 Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                      Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple           Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                      sees these.
 Report by: LH
                                                                         Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                             sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                         PC.
                                                                         Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                         Neighbors.
                                                                         Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                            may come to the Commission for a
                                                                         ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an exception
         through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home


 Report by: LH
occupations.




18.190.060 Fixed standards.
(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed,
volunteer, or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located.
      (a) The planning commission may grant an exception to this requirement and allow
      additional employees working at the home with a conditional use permit if the applicant can
      demonstrate they meet the following qualifications:




             (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and
             business-related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.

             (ii) Vehicles shall be screened and out of public view to preserve the residential integrity
             of the property and shall not displace any required front yard landscaping.

             (iii) Utilized floor space of the home occupation shall not exceed allotted amounts as
             specified in this title.

             (iv) Employees will only be at the home between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.

             (v) Employee vehicles permitted at the home shall be limited to cars, pick-up trucks,
             vans and SUVs. Semi-trucks and trailers, construction equipment, and other heavy
             equipment shall not be permitted to be brought to the home by employees.

             (vi) That any increase in the number of employees does not result in an increase of
             customers visiting the property that would exceed allotted customers per day as
             specified by this title.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage, including signage on vehicles
             parked at the home.

             (6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the
             home occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and
             use off-street parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or
             business-related visitor vehicles.



 Report by: LH
              (10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any
              unscreened or unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not
              limited to, home occupation events or activities; and storage or display of supplies,
              inventory or equipment when such use is in conjunction with the sales, service or
              production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the home occupation
              must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.

              (14) Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not
              substantially, unreasonably and uncharacteristically interfere or disrupt the peace, quiet
              and domestic tranquility of the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not create or
              be associated with or produce odor, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, noises or
              vibrations, excessive traffic or other nuisances, including interferences with radio and
              television reception or any other adverse effects within the neighborhood.




Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Application
         2.     Public Notice including Area Map
         3.     Site Plan
         4.     Parking Plan
         5.     Street View




Report by: LH
