                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             January 11, 2024
Subject:          PLZ-23-2033 Conditional Use, “Riverton Acres Private Lane”, to be
                  located at 3546 West 13400 South. Applicant- Bob Jones


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2033 “Riverton Acres Private Lane”, to
be located at 3546 West 13400 South with the following conditions:

      1. Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      2. Approval is for one additional home onto an existing private lane, for a total of three lots
         accessing the private lane.
      3. Private lane shall be at least 25-ft wide drivable surface.
      4. Private lane may continue to use the existing street number, or change to a street name as
         the three lane users determine.
      5. Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the
         requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City Standards and
         Specifications.
      6. The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the standards of
         the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      7. The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall conform to
         Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not limited to width, number of
         driveways and separation distance between driveways.
      8. The private lane shall be maintained by the homeowners, no City maintenance will be
         performed on the private lane.
      9. Written CC&Rs or an agreement for shared access and maintenance of the private lane
         must be submitted with the subdivision.

 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for an applicant requesting permission to add one
additional lot to an existing private lane. The subject property is located at 3546 West 13400
South, it is a combination of two parcels which make up about 1.03 acres. The larger parcel has
an existing home which fronts onto 13400 South, and there is a large unused area behind the
house where the applicant would like to create a new buildable lot. Along the subject property’s

 Report by: TJP
east property line is an existing private lane which provides access to the Krafts and the Saccos
homes.

The existing private lane is known as 3525 West 1, it is 30-ft wide, with about 18-ft of pavement.
The Krafts and Saccos each own half of the lane. The Krafts and Saccos are aware of this
application and must give permission for a new user to use their property.       All adjoining
properties are zoned RR-22 and the General Plan for the area is Low Density Residential
(minimum 14,000-sf lots).

The applicant would like to have one new lot access the private lane. The Krafts and Saccos must
agree to share their private lane with a new user and the pavement would need to be widened to
25-ft to meet city code. The applicant would also be required to make an application for a
subdivision.

Riverton City prefers single-family residential development to use public streets. However, private
lanes may be used on properties where a public street may be impossible or impractical. The
Planning Commission determines if a private lane can be used following the criteria in City Code.

Staff believes this property should be considered for a private lane for several reasons including:
   • There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master Transportation Plan.
   • No local streets are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property.
   • A private lane would not affect access by neighboring properties.
   • Other properties in the area with which were similarly situated were developed with private
        lanes.


Recommendations
Staff believes this meets the criteria for a private lane and is therefore recommending approval
with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.


  Attachments
  The following items are attached:

             1. Public Notice including Area Map.
             2. Application.
             3. Site Plan.




1 This is an older private lane; it was assigned a street number when it was approved many years ago. Under today’s standards, private lanes are not
numbered, instead they are named to help distinguish them as private rather than public. Changing an address of an existing house, including
changing the street name has the potential to create significant issues for the existing home owners, so we lean towards leaving the addresses as is.
  Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
     1- Does this property qualify for a private lane?
     2- What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
           (Such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length).

 18.35.070 Lots located on private lanes.
 (1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
 residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
 impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
 land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
 approved by the planning commission.

 Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least two
 of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):
           (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
           public street; or

           (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided with
           public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of any
           adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

           (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as required
           by the master transportation plan.

 Additionally, a private lane is subject to these requirements

 (2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
 properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
 with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
 methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
 portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
 subsequently:
        (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.
        (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.
        (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
        meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.
        (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
        additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city up
        to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
        determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (3) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.

 (4) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
 based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
 on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

 (5) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
 Report by: TJP
required by city officials or workers.

(6) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
streets shall apply to all buildings and usesadjoining private
rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required
private lane width. No portion of the private lane may be
counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual
lots. On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is
occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private lane area
may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see
Figure 1).


(7) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.

(8) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.

(9) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(10) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(11) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(12) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(13) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.


Fire Requirements for Private Lanes

                 Drivable Lane Width                                         Parking Rules
                      20-26 feet                                        No Parking both sides.
                      26-32 feet                                        No Parking on one side.
                   32 feet and over                                  Parking allowed on both sides.




Report by: TJP
                                                      NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                              The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                              on Thursday, January 11 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                              City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                              comment on the following application:
Bob Jones is requesting approval for a Conditional Use for a Private Lane for one (1) additional lot on
an existing private lane. The subject property is located at 3546 West 13400 South, and the existing
private lane is known as 3525 West, as can be seen on the map below.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3124.

                                                     HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public, and public comments will be taken in the meeting. The staff report will be available for public
review through the City website prior to the meeting. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes
will be available following the meeting. Public comments for this item may also be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov
or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning
Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php. This link will take you to the applicable
meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review by the Planning Commission. Staff
reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                 12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
