                                 MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             January 9, 2025
Subject:          PLZ-24-2044, “Far West Environmental”, conditional use permit for an
                  environmental testing office to be located at 12166 South Redwood Road.
                  Applicant – Benjamin and Sarah Milar.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,decisions are based on
substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve a Conditional Use Permit for PLZ-24-8015 “Far
West Environmental”, to be located at 12166 South Redwood Road with the following
conditions:
     1. No exterior modifications to the existing building.
     2. No outside storage except work related vehicles.
     3. No material testing to be conducted on site.

Background

This is a public hearing for a conditional use permit for an environmental testing office to be
located at 12166 South Redwood Road in an existing commercial building. The building holds
other commercial businesses, including a daycare. The property is zoned “C-N” which is
Commercial Neighborhood. Professional Office is a Conditional Use in the C-N Zone.




Far West Environmental will use an existing office space for their office activities. Although they
are in the business of collecting and testing materials, they report there will be no testing done on
site. Samples are sent to testing labs in other locations.

The applicant further explains that this site is only for office use with possible vehicle storage for
a company truck.




 Report by: TJP
Public Notice and Recommend Actions
Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-page. No
comments were received at the time of this report.

Staff had some initial concerns about the nature of the business activities, but the applicant resolved the
concerns by providing additional information as noted in this staff report. Staff believes this use is very
similar to previous office use and no additional impacts are created by the manner of use the applicant
proposes, therefore Staff is recommending approval with the conditions listed in the sample motion.

Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1. Public Notice including Area Map
           2. Application, Ownership Affidavit




 Report by: TJP
                                                     NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                              The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                              on Thursday, January 9, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                              Riverton City Hall located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take public
                                              comment on the following application:
Dawn Sansing, office manager of Far West Environmental, is requesting approval of a conditional use
permit to conduct general office activities at a commercial building located at 12166 South Redwood
Road. The property is zoned C-N (Neighborhood Commercial).




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application and take public comments before making a
decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property records indicate you own property
within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton
City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                       HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public comment
for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments submitted before
5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
