                              MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           November 13, 2025
Subject:        “Reader Short-Term Rental,” PLZ-25-2042, Conditional Use Home
                Occupation, to be located at an existing home at 4851 Murdoch Peak
                Circle. Applicant – Eugene Reader


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission APPROVE application PLZ-25-2042, “Reader Short-Term
Rental” to be located at 4851 Murdoch Peak Circle with the following conditions:

     1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
        Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation
        Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
     2. Short-term rental must be operated within the rules and regulations for Short-term
        Rentals as described in Riverton City Code 18.190.051.
     3. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
     4. Applicant shall surrender applicant’s conditional use permit for short-term rental use of the
        subject property in the event applicant undertakes any other business activity on the
        subject property, or the applicant shall reapply for a conditional use permit for a short-term
        rental in a manner which takes into account the other business activity.
     5. Applicant shall disclose all Applicant’s advertising materials, whether provided to listing
        agencies or otherwise made available to potential customers and shall semi-annually
        update City staff of any changes to said advertising materials.
     6. There may be no more than 8 combined renters and guests (non-permanent residents) on
        the property at any given time.
     7. There may be no more than one rental contract at any given time.

Background

This is a public hearing for a short-term rental application by Eugene Reader, for the short-
term rental of a residence located at 4851 Murdoch Peak Circle in the southwest corner of the
city. The neighborhood is zoned R-4, which is single-family residential with 10,000-sf lots.
The subject property is .21-acre, the existing house built in 1998 is a rambler with 1226-sf
above grade and 1123-sf finished in the basement. The house has a 2-car attached garage.
The lot is rectangular with 80 feet of frontage on Murdoch Peak Circle and is 113 feet deep.
Applicant has read and is aware of short-term rental restrictions and ordinances in Riverton
City and intends to abide by them.
Report by:
 Additional Information following the October 9, 2025 hearing. This application was
 previously heard by the Planning Commission at the Oct 9, 2025 PC Meeting. In that
 meeting the Commission CONTINUED the application to a future meeting. The Commission
 requested additional information about code enforcement and police action at the property,
 and additional information about the applicant’s ability to respond within 1-hour as required by
 code. City staff has gathered the additional information the Commission requested. New
 public notices were sent to the neighbors announcing this hearing.
 The city attorney investigated the reports of police and code enforcement action against the
 property. He concluded:
     “This email will confirm that I have reviewed Utah state court records pertaining to Mr.
     Eugene Reader and found no criminal violations or other court actions are on file which
     could reasonably serve as a basis to bar Mr. Reader from being considered eligible to
     receive a permit for operating a short term rental residence in Riverton, Utah.”


Planning Department Staff asked Mr. Reader for evidence showing his representative could
respond within 1-hour. Mr. Reader provided a new contact phone # for a new agent.
Planning Department staff spoke with his new agent on the phone, she claimed to be able to
respond within 1 hour because she lives 6 minutes away from Mr. Readers proposed short-
term rental. The contact number was the only evidence the applicant provided.

Ordinances and Issues

 Short-term rentals are considered Home Occupations under Riverton City Code and are allowable
 as conditional uses in all residential zones. The code gives a list (see 18.190.051 items 1 thru 13)
 of requirements for licensing and operating a short-term rental including:

       1. The applicant must own the home and live there.
       2. Rentals are limited to 150 nights per year.
       3. Only one rental agreement at a time.
       4. Owner must give a contact number to neighbors within 300-ft.
       5. A rental agreement must be for a minimum of 2-nights and cannot exceed 29-days.
       6. No more than 8 renters at any one time.
       7. Off-street parking must be provided and used.
       8. Renter information packet must be posted with contact information.
       9. Address must be clearly visible on the front of the house.
       10. Backyard must be fenced.
       11. Obtain a Conditional Use permit and a Riverton Business License.
       12. Comply with Riverton City Noise Ordinance.
       13. Property is to be maintained according to Riverton Ordinance.

Item #11 requires several submittals from the applicant to be used by staff and the Commission to
evaluate the application. Most of these are similar to other Home Occupations, but a few are unique
to Short-Term Rentals. The table below lists each criteria with or a brief description or explanation
of how each is met.



 Report by:
     1 Proof of ownership                             County records.
     2 Proof of primary residency.                    Driver’s License, Federal tax return

     3 Drawing or photo showing off-street            Attached   photo   showing extra-wide
                                                      3
                                                      driveway
       parking.
     4 Proof of compliance with existing
       CC&R’s
     5 Pay the Conditional Use fees.                  Paid with the application.
     6 Comply with the Conditional Use Permit         Made application for this hearing.
       process.
     7 Submit a business license application.         Submitted or will be submitted after this
                                                      hearing.
     8 Proof of sales tax registration.               Required with Business License
                                                      application.
     9 Proof of Business Entity registration.         Required with Business License
                                                      application.
    10 Show compliance with all Riverton              Required before Business License Issued.
                                                      Includes sign-offs by Fire, Building
       Business License requirements.                 Inspection and Planning Department.



This application comes before the Planning Commission because all short-term rental applications
require a conditional use permit and approval by the commission. Staff has reviewed the
application and believes the application meets or can meet the requirements for Short-Term
Rentals.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. One comment in opposition had been received from neighbors at the time of posting.


Attachments
 The following items are attached:

              1.   Public Notice including Area Map
              2.   Application, Ownership Information
              3.   Photo of parking area
              4.   Street view
              5.   Minutes from Oct 9, 2025 PC Meeting.
              6.   Email from City Attorney.




 Report by:
18.190.051 Short term rentals.
(1) A short term rental property must be owner occupied and the business owner’s primary
residence.

(2) Short term rentals are an allowable conditional use in all residential zones.

       (a) The owner must live in the dwelling a minimum of 185 nights a year.

       (b) Rentals are limited to 150 nights per year. Renters must be required to agree to a two-
       night minimum stay.

(3) Only one rental agreement may be in operation at any one time, and the party who executes
the rental agreement with the property owner must stay at the property each night during the
rental period.

(4) The owner must provide a contact number to all renters and to all residents within 300 feet of
the residence.

       (a) The owner or representative must be available to respond 24/7 by phone.

       (b) The owner or representative must physically respond, meaning arrive at the rental
       property, within one hour after being called.

(5) Each rental shall be limited to 29 consecutive nights per renter.

       (a) There shall be a minimum of four hours vacancy between renters.

(6) Rentals are limited to a total of eight renters.

(7) All rental-related parking must be off street and contained within footprint of the frontage of
the home.

(8) An informational packet must be posted in plain view inside the residence with escape,
emergency contact information, appliance control and hazard-related information.

(9) An address number shall be conspicuously posted on the entrance of the rental residence or
on any mailbox located in the park strip of the residence.

(10) All rental activities must be confined to the residence, accessory or out building and the
privacy fenced rear and side yards of the residence. Privacy fencing around rear and side yards
shall be required in all zones which allow for a one-third-acre lot size, or lots smaller than a one-
third-acre lot size.


 Report by:
(11) As part of the conditional use application the property owner must:
      (a) Provide proof of ownership.
      (b) Provide proof of primary residency by providing sufficient documentation as determined
      by the Riverton City planning department. Such information may include, any one of the
      following:
            (i) Federal or state tax returns;
            (ii) Government issued ID showing property address;
            (iii) Deed records;
            (iv) Providing signed and notarized affidavit attesting to ownership; or
            (v) Other suitable proof of ownership as determined by the city.
      (c) Provide proof of adequate off-street parking areas on the property and contained within
      footprint of the frontage of the home.
      (d) Provide proof of compliance with existing CC&Rs associated with the property.
      (e) Provide proof that all applicable fees associated with the conditional use permit have
      been paid.
      (f) Comply with all other requirements of the conditional use permit process established by
      the Riverton City Code.
      (g) Provide a copy of the short term rental business license application.
      (h) Provide proof of sales tax license.
      (i) Provide proof of business entity registration (if applicable) with the state of Utah
      (http://corporations.utah.gov).
      (j) Show compliance with all applicable requirements associated with the Riverton City
      business license code and procedures and payment of all applicable fees.

(12) The owner shall ensure that all rental activities comply with Riverton City noise ordinance.
      (a) More than one violation of the noise ordinance by any one renter in any 72-hour period
      which results in issuance of a citation shall require the owner to terminate the rental.

(13) The owner is responsible to ensure that the residence and associated property is maintained
in accordance with Riverton City Code.
      (a) Three or more violations within any 12-month period will result in the loss of the business
      license.




 Report by:
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, November 23, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood
                                               Road to take public comment on the following application:
    Gene Reader is seeking a conditional use permit for a short-term rental to be located at 4851
    Murdoch Peak Circle. This item was continued from a previous Planning Commission meeting.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149• rivertonutah.gov
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             4
October 9, 2025


             City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
             Fire Codes.

      2.     Short-term rental must be operated within the rules and regulations
             for Short-Term Rentals as described in Riverton City Code 18.190.051.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business License.

      4.     Applicant shall surrender applicant’s Conditional Use Permit for
             short-term rental use of the subject property in the event the applicant
             undertakes any other business activity on the subject property, or the
             applicant shall reapply for a Conditional Use Permit for a short-term
             rental in a manner, which takes into account the other business
             activity.

      5.     Applicant shall disclose all Applicant’s advertising materials, whether
             provided to listing agencies or otherwise made available to potential
             customers and shall semi-annually update City Staff of any changes
             to said advertising materials.

      6.     There may be no more than 8 combined renters and guests (non-
             permanent residents) on the property at any given time.

      7.     There may be no more than one rental contract at any given time.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Rushton. Vote on Motion: Vice-Chair
Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes,
Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Cluff – Yes, Commissioner
Knudsen – Yes. The motion passed unanimously.

      B.     “READER CONDITIONAL USE – SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERMIT,”
             PLZ-25-2042, AN APPLICATION TO RENT THE PROPERTY AT 4851
             MURDOCH PEAK CIRCLE AS A SHORT-TERM RENTAL. APPLICANT
             – EUGENE READER.

Ms. Halversen presented the Staff Report and stated that the application is for a Short-
Term Rental Permit. The applicant property is located at 4851 Murdoch Peak Circle,
which is in the southwest corner of the City. The neighborhood is zoned R-4, which is
single-family residential with 10,000 square foot lots. The applicant is Eugene Reader,
and the subject property is 0.21 acres. The existing house was built in 1998 and is a
rambler with 1,226 square feet above grade and 1,123 square feet finished in the
basement. The house has a two-car attached garage. The lot is rectangular with 80 feet
of frontage on Murdoch Peak Circle and is 113 feet deep. Ms. Halversen reported that
the applicant would like to rent the property out as a short-term rental. When the
application materials were submitted, everything was reviewed and verified. There was
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
October 9, 2025


some confusion, but that was resolved yesterday. That was the reason for the delay in
sharing some of the materials.

Ms. Halversen explained that there was a question about whether the applicant will be
living in the home. Mr. Reader has another home in Nevada, so there was some extra
documentation requested to make sure this would be his primary residence. Last night,
tax documents and a driver’s license were submitted that showed that this was listed as
the primary residence. His home insurance needs to be modified because currently, the
Nevada residence is claimed as the primary residence, and the property in Utah is
claimed as a vacation home. According to the applicant, he is in the process of having
that changed.

The applicant is aware of short-term rental restrictions and ordinances in Riverton City
and intends to abide by them. Ms. Halversen shared the mailer that was sent out. There
were several neighbors who expressed concerns about a short-term rental. The
qualifications for a short-term rental were reviewed. One of the concerns that was raised
with this application was how the applicant could respond to an issue or emergency within
an hour if he were in Nevada. The applicant provided a name and phone number of an
agent who would respond, but that agent is not present at the Planning Commission
Meeting and could not be verified from the information submitted. It is possible for the
Commission to further clarify who the agent is and what the response time will look like.

The sample motion language was reviewed. Ms. Halversen informed the Commission
that there will need to be a discussion with the applicant to ensure that the Code
requirements are met. Based on what has been submitted to Staff, it appears the
application meets the requirements. She reiterated that the concerns relate to primary
residency and timely response to complaints. There were also issues raised in the
submitted public comments.

Commissioner Cluff reported that several of the public comments received referenced
multiple police visits to the property. She asked if there is anything in the Code that
prohibits a property from being used as a short-term rental if there is a certain level of
police activity. Ms. Halversen noted that in the Home Occupation Code, it states that an
inordinate amount of City resources cannot be used. She is not sure that police visits
would fall under that.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter, reported that there was an allegation about repeat violations
of the City parking ordinances because vehicles were parked on the street for extended
periods of time. He stated that when a property is operating illegally before coming to the
City, the applicant is put on a path to obtain a Conditional Use Permit and have the
conditions explained to them. From that point forward, there is monitoring of the
operation. Someone having a parking violation in the past does not necessarily mean
there is a valid basis to deny an application. However, there might be more to examine
here. The Planning Commission can take public comment, continue the public hearing
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
October 9, 2025


to the next meeting, and direct Staff to review any law enforcement activity at this
residence.

Commissioner Cluff mentioned the three Code violations within a one-year period. If
there was a noise problem at 2:00 a.m. and the police were called to handle the situation,
she wanted to know whether that report would come to the City as a Code violation. Mr.
Carter explained that the City would need to monitor that to make sure there was an
awareness of violations at short-term rental properties. There would need to be a periodic
check-in to see whether or not there were relevant police reports. Commissioner Cluff
asked if this is something that is currently being done. Mr. Carter stated that this is
something the City should be doing internally, but he would need to review the extent it
is happening right now.

Commissioner Matheson asked about documentation that showed there were three
episodes in a prior year. He wanted to know if that provided any grounds to deny a short-
term rental application. Mr. Carter was hesitant to answer that question without knowing
the direct history of the property. The applicant was asked to address the Commission.

The applicant, Eugene Reader, introduced himself to the Planning Commission. He
discussed an instance where there were trash cans in the road, as well as an instance
where there was a winter storm and the vehicle on the side of the road was unable to
start. The trash cans in the road happened a few years back. He was unsure whether
that incident pertains to this application. Mr. Reader discussed the agent who will take
care of the property and confirmed that someone can reach the home within the hour. If
there is an inappropriate activity taking place at the site, there is a fine system in place
and the customer would not be able to rent through the Evolve rental website. As for the
Nevada property, he clarified that it is a vacation home. The home he owns in Riverton
is his permanent residence.

Commissioner Rushton noted that the Meeting Materials Packet indicates that the primary
residence was initially identified as the Nevada property. Mr. Reader clarified that there
was some confusion and reiterated that the home in Riverton is his permanent residence.
Commissioner Rushton asked if he is at the home in Riverton more than 185 days per
year, which was confirmed. Commissioner Ruston next asked for additional information
about the agent. Mr. Reader explained that he received updated information from the
agent recently. Commissioner Rushton wanted to know if the plan is to rent the Riverton
home when he is not there. Mr. Reader confirmed this. He will not be in the home when
it is rented.

Commissioner Cluff asked how often Mr. Reader is away from the residence and how
often he expects to be renting out the property. Mr. Reader reported that it will be about
three weeks at a time. Commissioner Matheson wanted more clarity about how many
days the home would be rented out. Mr. Reader explained that the number is uncertain.
He does not believe it will be close to three months because he will be in the area
frequently.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                7
October 9, 2025



Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing.

Steven Braithwaite lives across the street from the subject property. The applicant told
his insurance company that his primary residence is in Nevada but informed the City that
his primary residence is in Riverton. He knows that this is his primary residence because
he is here most of the time. As for the agent, there is no evidence of one. The applicant
told someone in the neighborhood that his intention is to rent the home for six months.
Mr. Braithwaite does not feel Mr. Reader is being forthright with the Commission.

Marcia Jensen lives near the subject property and the seven years she has lived in the
City have been interesting. There have been a lot of police officers at this home due to
various matters, including constant parking issues. A vehicle is often parked in front of
the applicant's home for long periods of time. Other neighbors have expressed reluctance
to attend this Planning Commission Meeting due to possible retaliation. The applicant
stated to another neighbor that he plans to live in the home for six months and rent it out
for six months. That is clearly over the 150 days that are allowed under the Code. Ms.
Jensen shared information about how residency is changed and noted that neighbors will
ultimately be the ones who monitor how often the applicant is at his home.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was continued.

Commissioner Matheson reported that there were comments submitted by neighbors but
some asked that their names not be included for fear of retaliation. It seems like there
are major issues that need to be considered. Ms. Halversen clarified that she asked for
more documentation from the applicant related to primary residency and an agent who
could respond within one hour. The applicant sent an email with a tax document and a
Utah driver’s license that showed this address as his primary residence. In addition, the
name and phone number of an agent were provided. She looked into the property
management company, but could not determine whether it was based in Utah. That
information came in late last night.

Mr. Carter stated that based on the information presented at the meeting, there has not
been clarity provided that an agent exists. As a result, he does not believe there is a
complete application at this time. Staff was unable to verify the records that were
submitted. The records that were submitted seem to be inconsistent with the testimony
from the applicant. The Planning Commission has some options. It is possible to deny
the application because there is insufficient proof of an agent. If that is the case, the
applicant can obtain an agent and refile the application. The second option is to continue
the matter to another meeting and give the applicant another opportunity to produce
sufficient evidence that there is a complete application for the Planning Commission to
review. Currently, he does not believe there is someone who can be identified as an
agent and no one came forward during the meeting.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
October 9, 2025


Commissioner Rushton believes this application should be continued or denied. There
are a number of questions that need to be answered. He asked that due diligence be
done to determine where the primary residence is located. In addition, an agent needs
to be disclosed. Commissioner Rushton suggested that the City Council look at short-
term rentals as far as the three violations within one year. There needs to be more clarity
about what that actually looks like. It is not a right to have a home-based business, but a
privilege. If a resident is using City resources because of police calls or enforcement
issues, he does not feel that privilege should be granted. This is something the Council
could weigh in on.

Mr. Carter explained that to vote for denial at this stage, there would need to be a better
record about the criminal history at this property and how it connects to a proposed short-
term rental. His recommendation would be for a continuance so Staff can report back.

Commissioner Rushton wanted additional information about the primary residence and
the agent of record. In addition, he would like Staff to ask the City Council for additional
information about the meaning of the three violations.

Mr. Carter did not have an issue with an ongoing conversation with the City Council about
short-term rentals in the City. He reported that Murray City previously changed its Short-
Term, Rental Code, where it is required that the property owner cohabitate with the tenant
while they are staying at the property. When this happened, information was brought to
the City Council, and Council Members were asked if there was interest in following this
example. Ultimately, the City Council was not interested in following the example that
was set in Murray. The conversation that Commissioner Rushton is encouraging Staff to
have with the City Council can happen, but it would not have any impact on the application
before the Commission.

Commissioner Rushton wondered whether the application should be denied based on the
fact that the primary residence has not been fully disclosed and because no agent has
been clearly documented. Commissioner Matheson thought it made sense to continue
the application so the applicant has an opportunity to produce that information.
Commissioner Rushton reiterated that there should be a City Council discussion about
residences with a history of police calls and whether a home-based business is
appropriate. He noted that Riverton has one of the better short-term rental policies in
place, given the various requirements. However, the City Council needs to discuss
situations where incidents occur and whether those incidents should impact the ability to
have a home-based business.

There was additional discussion about the best path forward. Commissioner Rushton
expressed support for a denial based on what has been presented. This is the first
application he has seen with this kind of police activity. Commissioner Cluff had a
question for Staff about the primary residence. She asked if there were grounds to
question that based on the potential conflict that exists. Ms. Halversen reported that the
documents that the applicant submitted the previous night were compelling, as they
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   9
October 9, 2025


included a tax return and a driver’s license. Commissioner Cluff mentioned the comments
made during the public hearing about the applicant planning to be away from the property
for six months. She wanted to know if that was something the neighbors would have to
monitor. Ms. Halversen explained that the City will not monitor the number of nights the
applicant is physically residing in the home. Mr. Carter pointed out that there can be a
Condition of Approval that the property manager issue a report to the City that outlines
the days the property manager took care of the property. He reiterated that there is
currently no clarity about whether there is an agent.

Commissioner Cluff believes this application should be continued based on some of the
missing information. There could be a request for a letter from the agent to verify that
they will be handling the property and will be able to respond to complaints within an hour.
She would also like a report from Staff on any Code violations at the property so the
Planning Commission can properly evaluate how those violations might impact the
issuance of a Conditional Use Permit. Commissioner Keele agreed that it is appropriate
to continue this application based on the issues that have been raised by others.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the police activity at the subject property and the
relevance in relation to the current application. Mr. Carter could not speak to that until he
sees the records. Commissioner Rushton questioned whether it would be possible for
Staff to look into police activity at residences for future short-term rental applications. He
would like that kind of information to be disclosed. Mr. Carter explained that this has not
been done previously and there is no Code requirement for that. He shared some sample
scenarios and outlined some of the potential limitations.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE Application
PLZ-25-2042, “Reader Short-Term Rental,” to be located at 4851 Murdoch Peak
Circle, with the following directions to the applicant and Staff:

       1.     Further documentation verifying that an agent has been acquired and
              will be available within a one-hour timeframe to respond to
              complaints.

       2.     A report from Staff looking into the criminal record of the applicant
              and any Code violation records at the property in question.

The motion was seconded by Commissioner Keele. Vote on Motion: Vice-Chair
Beck – Yes, Commissioner Keele – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – Yes,
Commissioner Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Cluff – Yes, Commissioner
Knudsen – Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
From:           Ryan Carter
To:             Lisa Halversen
Cc:             Tim Prestwich; Jason Lethbridge
Subject:        RE: Short term rental, Eugene Reader, applicant.
Date:           Monday, October 20, 2025 5:40:27 PM
Attachments:    image001.png
                image002.png
                image003.png
                image004.png
                image005.png
                image006.png
                image007.png
                image008.png



Lisa,

This email will confirm that I have reviewed Utah state court records pertaining to Mr. Eugene
Reader and found no criminal violations or other court actions are on file which could
reasonably serve as a basis to bar Mr. Reader from being considered eligible to receive a
permit for operating a short term rental residence in Riverton, Utah.

Regards,



Ryan Carter
City Attorney
Office of the City Attorney | Riverton City
O: 801-208-3171 | C: 801-699-5179 | rcarter@rivertonutah.gov
12830 S Redwood Road | Riverton, Utah 84065




From: Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov>
Sent: Monday, October 13, 2025 1:28 PM
To: Ryan Carter <rcarter@rivertonutah.gov>
Subject: FW: Short term rental

These attachments should have the information you need. Name is Eugene Reader, address is 4851
W Murdoch Peak Circle.


From: Gene Reader <lostinroy@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 8, 2025 2:30 PM
To: Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov>
Subject: Re: Short term rental

Hi Lisa, sorry it took me so long. I felt the need to redact my personal information.
Per your request I am submitting my tax return showing my address, and My current Utah driver
license for proof of residency.
Per our phone conversation, the name of the representative will be Courtney Durbin with Elevate
Property with contact
Contact number (208)709-8523
Please let me know if you have any more questions.

Gene Reader




On Wed, Oct 8, 2025 at 10:03 AM Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov> wrote:




  Hi Gene,

  Based on our telephone conversation this morning where you told me that your primary
  residence is in Nevada and this Murdoch Peak home is considered a vacation home, you are not
  able to meet the Riverton City code requirements for a short-term rental. You stated that you will
  live in your Nevada home while your Utah home is being rented out. Our code has two
  requirements that have not been addressed to our satisfaction, that of proof of primary residency
  and of the owner being able to physically be at the property within an hour to respond to any
  complaints. We will hold on to your application materials until the time that you can address
  these concerns, but you will not be on the agenda for the meeting this Thursday. This is to your
  advantage, because if you were on the agenda the staff would recommend a denial, and if you are
  denied then you cannot reapply for one year.

  As per city code, to establish the Murdoch Peak home as your primary residence please provide us
  a copy of your 2024 federal tax return and a Utah drivers license showing this as your address.
  Also, you will need to demonstrate how you can physically be at the home within an hour for any
  emergency.

  Thank you,
  Lisa

  LISA HALVERSEN
  Planner 1
  Planning Department | Riverton City
  O: 801-208-3149 | Lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov
  12830 S Redwood Rd | Riverton, Utah 84065
Connect with Riverton City!




From: Gene Reader <lostinroy@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, October 8, 2025 8:42 AM
To: Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov>
Subject: Re: Short term rental

Good morning, Lisa.
I'm just now noticing this email. What do you mean by I cannot live in another house? My plan
was to not be here when other people are here. I do not remember seeing anything about me
required to be here when guests are here.

On Mon, Oct 6, 2025 at 8:50 AM Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov> wrote:
   Hi Gene,

   I need to make you aware of two potential problems. To have a short-term rental in Riverton,
   the property must be owner-occupied. You cannot live in another house. Also, you are only
   allowed one rental unit, rented to one customer at a time, not individual rooms or two two-
   bedroom units.

   Thanks,
   Lisa

   From: Gene Reader <lostinroy@gmail.com>
   Sent: Saturday, October 4, 2025 8:22 AM
   To: Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov>
   Subject: Re: Short term rental

   Lisa,
   I have another house.

   On Thu, Oct 2, 2025, 14:04 Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov> wrote:
      And where will you live?


      From: Gene Reader <lostinroy@gmail.com>
      Sent: Thursday, October 2, 2025 2:03 PM
      To: Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov>
Subject: Re: Short term rental

Sorry, I will also have two areas that will not be accessible for rent. The area where the 3rd
bathroom will eventually be will be my locked storage, and the area where cool storage
under the front porch will also be locked with my lock and key.

Gene

On Thu, Oct 2, 2025 at 12:27 PM Lisa Halversen <lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov> wrote:


  Hi Gene,

  I’m working on the draft for your report and I have a question. Are you planning to rent
  the entire house or just certain parts of it? For example, are you going to rent an external
  unit, a basement unit, or the whole home?

  Thank you,
  Lisa

  LISA HALVERSEN
  Planner 1
  Planning Department | Riverton City
  O: 801-208-3149 | Lhalversen@rivertonutah.gov
  12830 S Redwood Rd | Riverton, Utah 84065




  Connect with Riverton City!
