                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            January 9, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-5001, Text Amendment Amending Section 18.63.040, Riverton Historic
                 Sites List, regulating minimum age of potential sites and designation plaque
                 criteria, amendments proposed by Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative recommendation
function, decisions are based on reasonably debated evidence.

     I move the Planning Commission recommend amendment of Section 18.63.040, Riverton
     Historic Sites List, with amendments as described herein.



Background



The Historic Preservation Commission has recommended that the minimum age for a historic site be
changed from 75 years to 50 years to match State code. The Commission also recommended
adding language that would allow the owner of the historic site to receive a historic designation
plaque provided by the City.

The text amendments are as follows:

(3) Criteria. The historic preservation commission may designate any building, structure, object,
site or district to the list as a historic resource in accordance with the procedures set forth herein
if it is determined by the historic preservation commission that the historic resource meets all of
the following criteria:

       (a) It is located within the official boundaries of the city;

       (b) It is at least 50 years old; and

       (c) There are no major alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the
       significant historic features.


Report by: JL
1/6/2025
(6) Results of Designation.

       (a) Certificate. The owner of an officially designated historic resource may obtain an
       historic site certificate from the historic preservation commission. The certificate shall
       contain the historic name of the property, the date of designation, and signatures of the
       mayor and the historic preservation commission chairperson.

(b) Plaque. The owner of an officially designated historic resource may obtain an historic site
plaque from the historic preservation commission, to be provided by the City, subject to
available inventory and funding. Future replacements of the plaque will be the responsibility of
the owner of the historic site.




Report by: JL
1/6/2025
Exhibit “A”
18.63.040 Riverton historic sites list.

(1) Created. There is hereby created a Riverton historic sites list (the “list”), which shall serve as
a means of providing recognition to and encouraging the preservation of historic resources in the
city. The list shall be prepared and maintained by the historic preservation commission and filed
with the city recorder’s office. Owners of property where historic sites are found shall be notified
by the city recorder’s office that a site found on the owner’s property has been included on the
list.

(2) Contents. The list shall describe each historic resource included therein, the date or
approximate date of its construction, the date during which its historic significance was
established, the reason for including it on the list, and the name and address of the current owner
as shown on the records of the Salt Lake County recorder.

(3) Criteria. The historic preservation commission may designate any building, structure, object,
site or district to the list as a historic resource in accordance with the procedures set forth herein
if it is determined by the historic preservation commission that the historic resource meets all of
the following criteria:

      (a) It is located within the official boundaries of the city;

      (b) It is at least 50 years old; and

      (c) There are no major alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the
      significant historic features.

(4) Notification. The owner of the item under consideration for inclusion on the list shall be
notified in writing either by certified mail or hand delivery of the proposed action to designate
the historic resource to the list and shall be invited to attend the historic preservation commission
meeting in which the designation will be discussed. Said notification shall be provided as
described herein not less than 14 days prior to the date of the historic preservation commission
meeting in which the designation will be discussed.

(5) Designation Procedures. The historic preservation commission is charged with designating
properties to list, and to maintain the same. The list shall reference any research related to the
historic resource and a copy of the list shall be kept in the historic preservation commission’s
historic sites files. The historic sites files shall be open to the public in accordance with the Utah
Governmental Records Access and Management Act. This list shall be reviewed and historic
resources shall be added or deleted as appropriate on, at minimum, a yearly basis by the historic
preservation commission. The list should include historic resources located within the city that
meet the minimum requirements set forth below:
     (a) The historic resource is rated an “A” or “B” on a professional reconnaissance level
     survey;

     (b) The historic resource is deemed “A” or “B” by the historic preservation commission
     (for properties outside of a surveyed area);

     (c) An historic resource that does not meet the “A” or “B” criteria established by the
     National

     Register of Historic Places may nonetheless be included if it is of exceptional importance
     to Riverton’s history; or

     (d) Any historic resource that has undergone major alterations or has been destroyed may
     be identified by markers may be placed on the original site of the historic resource with
     city council approval; and

     (e) The designation under consideration is not objected to by the owner of the historic
     resource.

(6) Results of Designation.

     (a) Certificate. The owner of an officially designated historic resource may obtain an
     historic site certificate from the historic preservation commission. The certificate shall
     contain the historic name of the property, the date of designation, and signatures of the
     mayor and the historic preservation commission chairperson.

     (b) Plaque. The owner of an officially designated historic resource may obtain an historic
     site plaque from the historic preservation commission, to be provided by the City, subject
     to available inventory and funding. Future replacements of the plaque will be the
     responsibility of the owner of the historic site.

     (b) Demolition. If a historic resource is to be demolished or undergo major alterations,
     efforts shall be made by the historic preservation commission to document its physical
     appearance before that action takes place.

          (i) The city shall delay issuing a demolition permit for a maximum of 10 calendar
          days and shall notify a member of the historic preservation commission, who will take
          responsibility for the documentation.

          (ii) Documentation shall include, at a minimum, exterior photographs of all elevations
          of the historic resource. When possible, both exterior and interior measurements of the
          building will be made in order to provide an accurate floor plan drawing of the
          building.
           (iii) A demolition permit shall be issued after a period 10 calendar days from the
           initial date of permit application whether or not the historic preservation commission
           has documented the building. The permit may be issued earlier if the historic
           preservation commission has completed its documentation before the 10-day deadline.

           (iv) Documentation shall be kept in the historic preservation commission’s historic
           sites files, which shall be open to the public in accordance with the Utah Government
           Records Access and Management Act.

(7) Removal of Properties. If, after review and consideration by the historic preservation
commission, it is determined that a historic resource no longer meets the criteria for listing, the
historic preservation commission may remove the historic resource from the list. A property
owner where an historic resource is found may request removal of the historic resource from the
list, by submitting a request in writing to the city recorder’s office, who shall promptly notify the
historic commission of the written request. The historic commission shall remove an historic
resource from the list within 10 calendar days following the city recorder’s receipt of a written
request. The historic commission shall use reasonable efforts to document the historic resource
prior to its removal from the list. [Ord. 16-11 § 1 (Exh. A).]
