                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 11, 2026
Subject:         PLZ-26-2027, “AutoCorrect”, an application to allow Derrick Stokes a
                 Conditional Use Home Occupation Permit to perform mobile auto repair
                 services from his residence located at 2150 West Gregory Avenue



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-26-2027, “AutoCorrect,” a home occupation
at 2150 West Gregory Avenue with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of the garage space for business activities.
    6. All repair work must be mobile, and performed at other locations.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “AutoCorrect,” located at
2150 West Gregory Avenue in the south-eastern section of the city. The property is .28-acre and
is zoned R-4, as are surrounding properties. The house is a split-level with an attached 2-car
garage. The applicant, Derrick Stokes, desires to use approximately 35 sf of space in his garage
as the office for his mobile auto mechanic business. All repair work would be done off-site at the
customer’s location.
Mr. Stokes appeared before this commission five years ago and was granted a conditional use
permit for his home occupation. However, he let his Riverton business license expire, thus not
abiding by requirement number two. His conditional use permit was voided at that time. He has
since reinstated his business license and comes back before the commission for their approval.
No complaints have been received by Code Enforcement regarding this address.

 Report by: LH
This application must have Planning Commission approval because the applicant proposes to
use space in his garage for business purposes. The Home Occupation Code states that a
proposal to use outdoor or garage space for business use requires a conditional use permit and
approval of the Planning Commission.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
that 50% of the garage space may be used for the business and all repair work must be mobile.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. One comment in support of the applicant has been received at the time of this report.


Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
 Report by: LH
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an exception
         through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home
         occupations.




 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Application
          2.     Aerial View
          3.     PC Minutes January 28, 2021
          4.     Public Notice including Area Map




 Report by: LH
APPROVED: PC 2.11.21


                      RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               MEETING MINUTES
                                January 28, 2021

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in
the Riverton City Municipal Building, 12830 South 1700 West, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                      Staff:

Gary Cannon, Chair                                Greg Wilson, City Engineer
Kent Hartley                                      Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Troy Rushton                                      Craig Bott, City Attorney
Brian Russell

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Gary Cannon called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m.
Commissioner Rushton led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

       a.     HOME OCCUPATION, DERRICK STOKES IS REQUESTING A
              CONDITIONAL USE-HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT FOR A MOBILE
              MECHANIC BUSINESS AT 2150 WEST GREGORY AVENUE.

Chair Cannon opened the public hearing.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the staff report and stated that the request is for a
Conditional Use Home Occupation for a mobile mechanic business to be located at 2150
West Gregory Avenue, which is an established neighborhood. The business will be
operated from an established home and involves mechanic diagnostics repair to take
place at the homes of customers. No additional employees will come to the home since
the work will be done off-site. The applicant plans to keep supplies in a work truck in front
of his home or in his garage. A photo of the front of the property was displayed. Mr.
Prestwich stated that with home occupations, there are fixed standards, qualifications,
and conditions. There is also a list of prohibited home occupations. If a home occupation
is not on the prohibited list and meets all of the fixed standards and qualifications, it is
entitled to approval.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the application was before the Planning Commission because
of the items on the prohibited list including storage, service repair, sales, or rental of
ambulances, tow trucks, recreational vehicles, watercraft, automobiles, ATVs, or other
motorized vehicles. The other involves auto body repair or motor vehicle repair.
Mr. Prestwich stated that previously, the Commission determined that a mobile mechanic
business does not reach the required threshold. Prohibited home occupations are
intended to be activities that take place at the home. Mr. Prestwich gave the example of
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
January 28, 2021

DMR Automotive, which was approved in April of 2020. The request was similar with less
impact. Staff recommended approval based on the ordinances and what the Commission
has approved previously.

Mr. Prestwich reported that he visited the home earlier in the day. Notice of tonight’s
public hearing was sent to property owners within 300 feet. One response was received
from a neighbor who expressed support.

Mr. Stokes stated that he intends to serve the elderly or lower-income individuals who are
unable to use a traditional mechanic shop. Being mobile reduces labor costs, parts costs,
and storage. Mr. Stokes indicated that he will use only hand tools in his work to reduce
noise. There will be no noise generated at his home, which is where he will park his work
vehicle and keep his tools. Mr. Stokes reported that he will visit up to three customers
per day.

In response to a question raised by Commissioner Rushton regarding parts deliveries,
Mr. Stokes stated that he has an off-site mailbox. No large delivery trucks will come to
the home. Large items will be picked up.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Russell moved to APPROVE Application PLZ-20-2051 Auto Correct
LLC Home Occupation, to be located at 2150 West Gregory Avenue with the
following conditions:

      1.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and this approval.

      2.     Home Occupation shall remain in compliance with any and all
             applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the
             City Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and
             Fire Codes.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      4.     The applicant may park one service truck in his driveway or garage.

      5.     No vehicle repair work may be conducted at the home.

      6.     No customer vehicle storage at the home.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Kent Hartley-Aye,
Troy Rushton-Aye, Brian Russell-Aye, Chair Gary Cannon-Aye. The motion passed
unanimously.
                                             NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                       The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on Thursday, June
                        11, 2026 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton City Municipal Building located at
                          12830 S. Redwood Road to take public comment on the following application:
Derrick Stokes is requesting a conditional use permit for his home occupation “AutoCorrect LLC,”
located at 2150 W. Gregory Ave. (12360 South). The applicant describes his business activities as
mobile auto mechanic services. He states that all work will take place off-site.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
