                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            July 10, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-2029, Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Little Kids Hearts,” at
                 4578 West Hemsworth Lane. Applicant – Rosibel Machado De Leal


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2029, “Little Kids Hearts,” at 4578 W.
Hemsworth Lane with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may have up to 8 children per day, including the applicant’s own
       children.
    6. Maximum vehicle trips shall not exceed 16 trips per day.
    7. No business activity may take place after 7 pm.
    8. Pick-up and drop-off times will be staggered to reduce traffic congestion.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Little Kids Hearts,” an in-
home daycare for children, to be located at 4578 W. Hemsworth Lane. The property is a
townhouse in the southwestern section of the city in the Mountain Ridge Ph 20 subdivision, it is
zoned SLR. The neighboring properties are also zoned SLR. The home has a main floor and a
basement. The attached garage is 2-car with a driveway.


The applicant, Ms. De Leal, is requesting approval of a conditional use home occupation permit
for in-home daycare. Ms. De Leal intends to use the living room and kitchen area of her main
floor. Additionally, children would have use of the nearby bathroom and a bedroom for naps. She
is asking for permission to provide care for 8 children per day. She has no children of her own
that would be included. She intends to stagger drop-off and pick-up to alleviate any traffic
 Report by: LH
congestion.
Childcare is considered a child group activity and therefore has special allowances in our City
Home Occupation Ordinance. Child group activities are allowed more visitors per day and more
vehicle trips per day than a typical home occupation as approved by the Commission. City code
does allow the Planning Commission to approve up to 24 trips per day for child group activities.
Ms. De Leal anticipates16 total vehicle trips per day (8 cars) for her 8 students.


The State of Utah also regulates childcare. Ms. De Leal is applying for the lowest regulatory level
of home childcare (Residential Certificate Child Care) that limits her to caring for 8 children of
varying ages. The State recently dropped the requirement for a fenced outdoor play area for this
level of childcare. The state will do an inspection to verify compliance with their other
requirements.


This application comes to the commission because it exceeds the number of vehicle trips that
can be approved by staff. City ordinance states that any child day care or other child group
activity that exceeds 8 trips per day day is a conditional use to be approved by the Planning
Commission.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
allowing a maximum of eight (8) children per day, sixteen vehicle trips, and that child pick-up and
drop-off times will be varied. Off-street parking will be provided for clients/customers.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report, no public comments had been received.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map
          2.     Application
          3.     Transportation/Site Plan
          4.     Street View, Aerial View




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to follow the
rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance found in Title 18, Chapter
190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of use. As the
intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home occupations are reviewed
and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only sees applications that are requesting
permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the
ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
        18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.

        The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
        to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
        commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
        exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

        (9) Child day care and other group child activities (e.g., dance schools, preschools, music
        classes, other care, or instruction for children) that are expected to generate or exceed eight
        children/students any day. The following guidelines shall be used by the planning commission to
        determine the maximum number of students/children permitted:

        (a) A traffic plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning department, which includes
        acceptable traffic flow, drop-off and turnaround areas.

        (b) A maximum of 12 students/children per session and a maximum of 24 students/children per
        day shall be permitted.

        (c) A maximum of three sessions per day may be permitted.

        (d) All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicular trips per day.

        (e) The total number of students/children shall include the licensee’s and any employees’
        children if they are under six years of age and are under the care of the licensee at the time the
        home occupation is conducted.

        (f) No child day care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation may be
        established within 300 feet as measured from property line to property line of another child day
        care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation.




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, July 10, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take
                                               public comment on the following application:
Rosibel Machado De Leal is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Little Hearts,” in-home
daycare services to be located at 4578 W. Hemsworth Lane. She is requesting permission for a
maximum of 8 children per day between the hours of 7:00 am and 7:00 pm, Monday through
Friday.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149. Comments must be
received by 5:00 pm the day of the meeting.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
