                            MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           February 7, 2023
Subject:        Adopting updated waterwise landscaping standards for development within
                Riverton City, Amendments proposed by Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
   1. I move the Planning Commission recommend adoption or the “Water Efficient
      Landscape Ordinance”, as shown, amending and updating the previously adopted
      recommended standards.

Background

The Riverton City Council has previously adopted water efficient landscaping standards for
development within the City. The standards are based on similar standards put forward by the
Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District and others. The standards as currently adopted
recommend methods of reducing water use within landscaped areas, both residential and
commercial. This can be accomplished both by reducing or eliminating more water intensive
landscape materials, and also by reducing the overall landscaped area.

This proposed amendment updates the standards for commercial and multifamily development from
“recommended and encouraged” to required as part of the site review process for such projects.
This is consistent with development practices on recent projects, and is becoming an increasing
mandate from the State and other agencies. Staff will present additional information on this
ordinance to the Planning Commission at the hearing.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance draft document.




Report by: JL
2/7/2023
                    WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE ORDINANCE
Section 1. Definitions

   The following definitions shall apply to this ordinance:

   Active Recreation Area: An area that is dedicated to active play where turf grass may be used as
   the playing surface. Examples of active recreation areas include sports fields, play areas, and
   other similar uses.

   Bubbler: An irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the planted area,
   usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short stream
   pattern.

   Check Valve: A device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from draining out of the
   pipe through gravity flow.
   Controller: A device used in irrigation systems to automatically control when and how long
   sprinklers or drip systems operate.

   Drip Emitter: Drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the plant,
   usually measured in gallons per hour.

   Grading Plan: The Grading Plan shows all finish grades, spot elevations, drainage as necessary
   and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped area.

   Ground Cover: Material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the ground
   that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve (12) inches.

   Hardscape: Patios, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and sidewalks.

   Irrigation Plan: The irrigation plan shows the components of the irrigation system with water
   meter size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each
   irrigation circuit, and identification of all irrigation equipment.

   Landscape Architect: A person who holds a professional license to practice landscape
   architecture in the state of Utah. Per State Code, licensed landscape architects, licensed
   architects, licensed land surveyors, and licensed engineers can professionally stamp plans that
   fall under the practice of landscape architecture. This includes commercial landscape and
   irrigation plans. Each municipality has the authority to require that only a licensed landscape
   architect can stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape architecture.

   Landscape Designer: A person who may or may not hold professional certificates for landscape
   design/architecture and cannot legally create commercial landscape plans. Landscape Designers
   generally focus on residential design and horticultural needs of home landscapes.

   Landscape Documentation Package: The preparation of a graphic and written criteria,
   specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural features such as
   plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features to comply with the
   provisions of this ordinance. The Landscape Documentation Package shall include a project data
   sheet, a Site Plan, a Planting Plan, an Irrigation Plan, Construction Details, and a Grading Plan.
                                                 1
Landscape Zone: A portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs, areas
with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil conditions, and areas that
will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a set of
valves with the same schedule.

Landscaping: Any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers,
annuals, perennials, ornamental grass, or seeding; natural features such as rock, stone, or bark
chips; and structural features, including but not limited to, fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor
art work, screen walls, fences or benches.

Localscapes®: A locally adaptable and environmentally sustainable urban landscape style that
requires less irrigation than traditional Utah landscapes (see www.Localscapes.com).

Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, wood chips or other materials left loose and applied to
the soil.
Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and sidewalk.

Planting Plan: A Planting Plan shall clearly and accurately identify the type, size, and locations for
new and existing trees, shrubs, planting beds, ground covers, turf areas, driveways, sidewalks,
hardscape features, and fences.

Pop-up Spray Head: A sprinkler head that sprays water through a nozzle in a fixed pattern with
no rotation.

Precipitation Rate: The depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in inches per
hour.

Pressure Regulating Valve: A valve installed in an irrigation mainline that reduces a higher supply
pressure at the inlet down to a regulated lower pressure at the outlet.

Pressure Compensating: A drip irrigation system that compensates for fluctuating water
pressure by only allowing a fixed volume of water through drip emitters.

Rotor Spray Head: A sprinkler head that distributes water through a nozzle by the rotation of a
gear or mechanical rotor.

Runoff: Irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is applied,
and which flows onto other areas.

Spray Sprinkler: An irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.

Stream Sprinkler: An irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single or
multiple streams.

Turf: A surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.

Water-Conserving Plant: A plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during spring and
summer months.



                                              2
Section 2. Applicability of Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance

   The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all new and rehabilitated landscaping for public
   agency projects, commercial development projects, required developer-installed landscaping in
   multi-family and single-family residential projects, and is strongly encouraged for homeowner
   provided landscape improvements within the front, side, and rear yards of single and two-family
   dwellings.

Section 3. Landscape Design Standards

       A. Plant Selection. Plants shall be well-suited to the microclimate and soil conditions at the
          project site. Both native and locally-adapted plants are acceptable. Plants with similar
          water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible.

       B. Mulch. After completion of all planting, all irrigated non-turf areas shall be covered with
          a minimum 3 to 4-inch layer of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth, and
          moderate soil temperature. Non-porous material shall not be placed under the mulch.

       C. Soil Preparation. Soil preparation will be suitable to provide healthy growing conditions
          for the plants and to encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil preparation
          shall include scarifying the soil to a minimum depth of six (6) inches and amending the
          soil with organic material as per specific recommendations of the Landscape
          Designer/Landscape Architect based on the soil conditions. In some cases, soil testing
          will provide additional recommendations for amending the soil.

       D. Tree Selection. Tree species shall be selected based on growth characteristics and site
          conditions, including available space, overhead clearance, soil conditions, exposure, and
          desired color and appearance. Trees shall be selected as follows:

               1. Broad canopy trees shall be selected where shade or screening of tall objects is
                  desired;

               2. Low-growing trees shall be selected for spaces under utility wires;

               3. Select trees from which lower branches can be trimmed to maintain a healthy
                  growth habit where visual clearance and natural surveillance is a concern;

               4. Narrow or columnar trees shall be selected for small spaces, or where awnings
                  or other building features limit growth, or where greater visibility is desired
                  between buildings and the street for natural surveillance;

               5. Street trees shall be planted within existing and proposed park strips, and in
                  sidewalk tree wells on streets without park strips. Tree placement shall provide
                  canopy cover (shade) and avoid conflicts with existing trees, retaining walls,
                  above and below ground utilities, lighting, and other obstructions; and

              6. Trees less than a two-inch caliper shall be double-staked until the trees mature
                  to a two-inch caliper.
       E. Areas with slopes greater than 25 percent, or 4:1 grade, shall be landscaped with deep-
          rooting, water-conserving plants, that do not include turf.
                                               3
Section 4. Irrigation Design Standards

       A. Pressure Regulation. A pressure regulating valve shall be installed and maintained by
          required by Riverton City’s Standards and Specifications, or by specific requirement of
          the Public Works Department . The pressure-regulating valve shall be located between
          the meter and the first point of water use, or first point of division in the pipe, and shall
          be set at the manufacturer's recommended pressure for the sprinklers.

       B. Irrigation Controller. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled
          smart irrigation controller which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of
          irrigation events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be
          equipped with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.
       C. Each valve should irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope and soil conditions and
          plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf and non-turf areas should be irrigated
          on separate valves. Drip emitters and sprinklers should be placed on separate valves.

       D. Drip emitters or a bubbler shall be provided for each tree. Bubblers for trees shall be
          placed on a separate valve unless specifically exempted by the City due to the limited
          number of trees on the project site.

       E. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used to irrigate plants in non-turf areas.

       F. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each control valve circuit.

       G. Sprinkler heads shall be attached to rigid lateral lines with flexible material (swing joints)
          or other approved materials designed to reduce potential for breakage.

       H. Check valves shall be required where elevation differences cause low-head drainage.
          Pressure compensating valves and sprinklers shall be required where a significant
          variation in water pressure occurs within the irrigation system due to elevation
          differences.

       I.   Filters and end flush valves shall be provided as necessary for drip irrigation lines.

       J.   Unless otherwise determined by the City, valves with spray or stream sprinklers shall be
            scheduled to operate between 6 p.m. and 10 a.m. to reduce water loss from wind and
            evaporation.

Section 5. Landscapes in New Single-family Residential Developments

       A. Homebuilders and/or developers subdividing lots and/or constructing new single-family
          residential homes are encouraged to offer a water-efficient landscaping option to
          prospective home buyers, such as the Localscapes design style.

       B. Homebuilders and/or developers who construct model homes for a designated
          subdivision are encouraged to have at least one model home with water-efficient
          landscaping, such as the Localscapes design style

       C. Model homes shall have landscaping and irrigation plans approved by the City Planning
          Department prior to issuance of building permits.

                                                  4
        D. Model homes shall include an informational brochure on water-efficient landscaping or
           Localscapes. Localscapes brochures can be obtained from the City or from other
           relevant agencies.

Section 6. Landscapes in Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Developments

        A. Commercial, industrial and institutional landscapes shall meet the Landscape Design
           Standards and Irrigation Design Standards of this ordinance, and the turf area shall not
           exceed 20% of the total landscaped area, outside of active recreation areas.

Section 7. Documentation for Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Projects

    Landscape Documentation Package. A copy of a Landscape Documentation Package shall be
    submitted to and approved by the City prior to the issue of any permit. A copy of the approved
    Landscape Documentation Package shall be provided to the property owner or site manager and
    to the local retail water purveyor. The Landscape Documentation Package shall be prepared by
    a professional landscape architect (PLA) and shall consist of the following items:

        A. Project Data Sheet. The Project Data Sheet shall contain the following:

                1. Project name and address;

                2. Applicant or applicant agent's name, address, phone number, and email
                   address;

                3. Landscape architect's name, address, phone number, and email address; and

                4. Landscape contractor's name, address, phone number and email address, if
                   available at this time.

        B. Planting Plan. A detailed planting plan shall be drawn at a scale that clearly identifies
           the following:

                1. Location of all plant materials, a legend with botanical and common names, and
                   size of plant materials;

                2. Property lines and street names;

                3. Existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences, utilities, paved areas and other
                   site improvements;
                4. Existing trees and plant materials to be removed or retained;

                5. Scale: graphic and written;

                6. Date of design;

                7. Designation of landscape zones, and

                8. Details and specifications for tree staking, soil preparation, and other planting
                   work.

        C. Irrigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the
           planting plan and shall contain the following information:
                                                 5
               1. Layout of the irrigation system and a legend summarizing the type and size of all
                  components of the system, including manufacturer name and model numbers;

               2. Static water pressure in pounds per square inch (psi) at the point of connection
                  to the public water supply;

               3. Flow rate in gallons per minute and design operating pressure in psi for each
                  valve and precipitation rate in inches per hour for each valve with sprinklers,
                  and

               4. Installation details for irrigation components.

       D. Grading Plan. A Grading Plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the Planting Plan and
          shall contain the following information:

               1. Property lines and street names, existing and proposed buildings, walls, fences,
                  utilities, paved areas and other site improvements, and

               2. Existing and finished contour lines and spot elevations as necessary for the
                  proposed site improvements, as well as drainage.

Section 13. Plan Review, Construction Inspection, and Post-Construction Monitoring for
    Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Projects

       A. As part of the Building Permit approval process, a copy of the Landscape Documentation
          Package shall be submitted to the City for review and approval before construction
          begins.

       B. All installers and designers shall meet state and local license, insurance, and bonding
          requirements, and be able to show proof of such.

       C. During construction, site inspection of the landscaping may be performed by the
          City.

       D. Following construction and prior to issuing the approval for occupancy, an inspection
          shall be scheduled with the City to verify compliance with the approved landscape
          plans.

       E. The City reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time before, during or after
          the irrigation system and landscape installation, and to require corrective measures if
          requirements of this ordinance are not satisfied.




                                               6
