                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                 AUGUST 25, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Keith Breinholt                                 Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Lisa Halverson, City Planner
Evan Matheson                                   Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at approximately
6:30 p.m. The Pledge of Allegiance was led by Commissioner Evan Matheson. It was noted
that Commissioner Jon Gilchrist was not present at the Planning Commission Meeting.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     REZONE – “AFCU REZONE” PLZ-22-4007, A PROPOSAL TO REZONE
              7.93 ACRES ON THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF 12653 SOUTH 3600
              WEST FROM C-PO TO C-G. APPLICANT – RICK MAGNESS.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. City Planner, Lisa Halverson, presented the Staff
Report and stated that the item related to the America First Credit Union (“AFCU”) Rezone.
The application was to rezone 7.93 acres of land located at 12653 South 3600 West. She
explained that this was a rectangular piece of property that is approximately 466 feet wide
and 750 feet deep. The applicant proposed putting an America First Credit Union branch
on the northwest corner of the property. The rest of the property will remain undeveloped
and potentially subdivided and sold at a future date. Ms. Halverson shared a map of the
area.

The property is currently zoned Professional Office Commercial (“C-PO”). Several of the
surrounding properties are zoned RR-22, Neighborhood Commercial, and Regional
Commercial. Ms. Halverson reported that there is also a hospital, a church, and a school in
the vicinity. The current C-PO Zone allowed for the bank use, but without the drive-thru. As
a result, the applicant would like to rezone the property to Gateway Commercial (“C-G”)
Zone. The zone would allow banking services with the drive-thru as a permitted use. It
would also provide additional flexibility for signage on the property. The current General
Plan designation for the property is C-PO and Business Park.

Commissioner Rushton noted that a rezone was recently approved for a coffee shop to the
east. He wondered what zone that was in. City Planner, Tim Prestwich, explained that the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
August 25, 2022

Scooter’s Coffee site did a rezone to C-G from Neighborhood Commercial (“C-N”). It was a
Conditional Use to have a drive-thru for food services in the C-G Zone. Mr. Prestwich noted
that there is currently a Site Plan being reviewed. That application would be seen by the
Planning Commission within the next month or so.

The applicant’s representative, Rick Magnus from AWA Engineering explained that the
America First Credit Union business model is to have a drive-thru. It is not permitted in the
current zone. As a result, AWA Engineering worked with City Staff to file an appropriate
request for zoning. The C-G Zone was selected due to the fact that it allows drive-thrus and
has different regulations for signage.

Commissioner Breinholt wondered if the application was for a bank without a drive-thru.
Mr. Magnus clarified that the application is for a bank with a drive-thru. That was the reason
for the requested zone change. Chair Cluff wondered if anything needed to be run by the
Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”). Mr. Magnus reported that there would need
to be discussions with UDOT. The necessary applications would be made. He noted that
UDOT would want to know how the accesses are designed.

Commissioner Matheson wondered if Staff had any long-term concerns about the zone
change. Mr. Prestwich noted that the C-G Zone and the C-PO Zone have slightly different
allowed uses. There were similarities between the two zones but differences relative to food
services and drive-thrus. Chair Cluff wondered if a restaurant could take over the proposed
location in the future. She was concerned about the busy intersection. While the location
is suitable for a bank use, she did not believe the location was appropriate for a restaurant
drive-thru. Mr. Prestwich reported that once the zoning is in place, America First Credit
Union could walk away, and anything permitted in the C-G Zone would be permitted as long
as Site Plan standards are met. A restaurant with a drive-thru is a conditional use in the
C-G Zone.

Mr. Magnus noted that the architectural standards are higher in the requested zone than in
the current zone. He explained that if the current zoning remains, there would not be a drive-
thru, but the standard architectural design could move forward. With the C-G Zone, the
design needs to be elevated in terms of materials and architectural features. These design
standards would provide consistency within the C-G Zone.

Commissioner Cannon was concerned about how America First Credit Union would use the
property and what would happen if America First Credit Union is no longer in this location.
He asked City Attorney, Ryan Carter about the distance requirements for alcohol sales.
Mr. Carter explained that there is a proximity requirement for a restaurant with a liquor
license. If a restaurant with a liquor license wants to move into the subject property in the
future, there may be limitations.

Commissioner Matheson asked if the request to rezone was only for the subject property or
the full block. Mr. Prestwich explained that it is the entire seven acres, which was shown in
red on the map. Commissioner Breinholt wondered how the shift from C-PO to C-G would
impact the locations next to the hospital. He believed the intention was to have medical
office spaces there. Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge, reported that the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
August 25, 2022

assumption when the hospital was announced was that there would be a lot of spillover
uses. That had not proven to be the case. He clarified that the City was not abandoning
the desire for medical office space in that portion of the City, but because there are vacancies
in the area, it made sense to expand some of the available use options.

Kenneth Fayler has lived across the street from the subject property in Riverton Meadows
since 1973. Concerns were expressed about emergency access to the subject property.
He wanted to understand how access would work because the average speed on 12600
South is 40 to 70 MPH. It often takes 15 minutes just to get out onto the road. Mr. Fayler
understood that the Fire Department would require two accesses to the subject property.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Cluff addressed the concerns expressed during the public comment period. She
believed that all issues related to access would be handled through the UDOT discussions
and application. Mr. Prestwich explained that Scooter’s Coffee had already spoken to UDOT
and the workings of their UDOT permit were in place. It would require that they share an
access to the west, so Scooter’s Coffee would share a drive approach. That would probably
leave enough space for America First Credit Union to have another access on 12600 South.
However, all of those details would be taken care of during the UDOT process.

Mr. Prestwich reported that there were different sign standards between C-PO and C-G.
The C-PO Zone allows a wall sign to have the name of the occupant of the building. That
meant the logo could not be placed on the wall. This made it difficult for commercial
businesses. Commissioner Park noted that the rezone would not necessarily allow for all
uses. There would still be approval processes with the City, UDOT, and the Fire
Department. If approvals were not granted, the proposal would be redesigned or denied.

Commissioner Ruston moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of Application PLZ-22-4007 "AFCU Rezone" of 7.93-acres of land, located at 12653
South 3600 West, thus changing the Zoning to C-G (Gateway Commercial). Chair
Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

       B.     REZONE – “NEW HORIZON MEDICAL” PLZ-22-4008, A PROPOSAL TO
              ADD A PEDESTRIAN-ORIENTED OVERLAY TO THE CURRENT ZONING
              OF C-PO FOR THE EXPANSION OF A MEDICAL BUILDING AT 1420 WEST
              12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT – MARCELLA ROWLEY.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Ms. Halverson presented the Staff Report and
explained that the proposal was to apply the Pedestrian-Oriented Overlay to the New
Horizon Medical building. The subject property was 0.45-acres of land and was located at
1420 West 12600 South, with frontage on the north side of 12600 West. The property is
rectangular and roughly 132 feet wide and 108 feet deep. The applicant wanted to add the
overlay to the property to expand the existing building. There was a desire to enlarge the
exam rooms by adding to the front section.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 4
August 25, 2022

If the application was approved, the front setback would be 23 feet from the street. The
property is currently zoned C-PO and most of the surrounding properties are either
Community Commercial or Medium High-Density Residential. Ms. Halverson shared an
image of the existing conditions as well as a drawing of the proposed addition on the front.
The closest side to 12600 South would be added onto. The current General Plan
designation for the property was Medium-High Density Residential and Community
Commercial, which was set with the August 2020 General Plan Amendment.

Ms. Halverson explained that the Pedestrian-Oriented Overlay was new and meant to make
the downtown area more accessible to pedestrians. The overlay had not yet been used.
She thanked Commissioner Gilchrist, who previously pointed out that the size of the property
did not match the requirements of the overlay. She clarified that the size of the property was
0.45 acres and the overlay is for properties that are 0.5 acres or greater. That was an
oversight by Staff and as a result, the recommendation was to table the application to a
future meeting. This would allow Staff to determine the size of the different parcels involved.
It was important that they all be added together correctly.

Ms. Halverson reported that some phone calls had been received from neighbors who were
concerned that the overlay may impact the surrounding neighborhood. Staff informed those
neighbors that the setbacks would be closer to 12600 South and would not encroach further
onto their properties. The Planning Commission could still hold the public hearing.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Breinholt wondered how much time Staff needed to review the materials. It
was noted that Staff was not asking for a continuation to a date certain. Mr. Carter asked
that the Commission table the item indefinitely. It would be re-noticed at a later time.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission TABLE the Application PLZ-22-4008,
“New Horizon Medical” to a future meeting. Commissioner Park seconded the
motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       C.     HOME OCCUPATION – “JUST BEAUTY ESTABLISHMENT” PLZ-22-2030,
              AN EYEBROW MICROBLADING SALON TO BE LOCATED AT 3659 WEST
              ROY LANE. APPLICANT – KATIE BUCKLEY.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Ms. Halverson presented the Staff Report and stated
that the item is a Home Occupation application for “Just Beauty Establishment” to be located
at 3659 West Roy Lane. The property is zoned R-4. The lot is Lot 126 in the Royal Farms
Phase I Subdivision. The two-story home was built in 2014 and has a basement and an
800-square-foot garage. The applicant, Katie Buckley, described her business as an in-
home eyebrow microblading salon that will operate in a guest room in the basement. Ms.
Buckley will use a closet in that room to store minimal business supplies. There were no
other Home Occupations taking place in the home. One to two customers were expected
per day and her sister would be an employee. Ms. Buckley stated on the application that
she would take appointments until 8:00 p.m. one to two times per week. Due to the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               5
August 25, 2022

employee, the requested hours, and the fact that customers will come to the home, the
application needed to be reviewed by the Commission.

Ms. Buckley shared information about microblading with the Commission. She explained
that microblading involves micro tattoos just under the surface of the skin. This creates the
illusion of hair for anyone who has lost their eyebrows due to health or age. The service can
also be used to create a fuller eyebrow. There would be a few clients on Saturdays through
the end of the year but the goal was to expand slightly the following year. Ms. Buckley did
not believe 8:00 p.m. appointments were likely to happen. She reported that the home has
an eight-car driveway that will accommodate her sister’s vehicle as well as the one customer
served at any given time visiting. Specifications would be added to all confirmation emails
and texts so customers would park in the driveway rather than the street. Customers will
also be asked to use the second entrance to the home in the back.

Commissioner Park wondered if this was a service that requires professional licensing.
Ms. Buckley stated that it does not. Microblading requires certification but no Utah license.
She reported that she has a Microblading Certification and is also a Licensed Cosmetologist.
Ms. Buckley has been a hairdresser for years, is a stay-at-home mother, but now wants to
get into the microblading business.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-22-2030, “Just Beauty Establishment,” to be located at 3659 West Roy Lane with
the following conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
             applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the City
             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
             Codes.

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City Business License.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health
             Department approvals.

      4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions, as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance and this approval.

      5.     No more than five visitors per day to visit the house for this business.

      6.     Hours of operation must be between 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Chair Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
August 25, 2022

       D.     MCDOUGAL      DEVELOPMENT    AGREEMENT     –  PLZ-22-4102,
              ESTABLISHES REQUIREMENTS, STANDARDS, AND PARAMETERS
              FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF APPROXIMATELY 3.2 ACRES LOCATED
              AT 13040 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD, INCLUDING APPROVAL OF AN
              EIGHT (8) LOT PRIVATE LAND SUBDIVISION ON THAT PROPERTY.
              PROPOSED BY RIVERTON CITY AND CONTINUED FROM 8.11.22
              MEETING.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and
explained that the item was carried over from a previous meeting. The property is located
at 13040 South Redwood Road. He explained that approval of the application would include
the adoption of additional language and standards within the Development Agreement and
approval of the eight-lot subdivision with all lots accessing a private lane. Since the request
involves a Development Agreement, the Planning Commission recommendation would be
forwarded to the City Council for final action.

The property is located at the intersection of Riverton Ranch and Redwood Roads. The
subdivision accesses Riverton Ranch Road via a private drive and the applicant proposed
a gate as part of the development. Mr. Prestwich reported that the lane, configuration, and
location of the gate were reviewed by the Riverton City Unified Fire Authority ("UFA")
Representative. The lot sizes were consistent with the underlying R-3 Zone, with the
exception of the corner lot. Mr. Prestwich reported that there was a pre-existing remnant
parcel that was left when UDOT widened Redwood Road. The applicant had worked with
the property owner to address that issue and expand. The one lot was slightly smaller at
11,645 square feet. The remaining lots all exceed the 14,000 square-foot minimum in the
zone. Mr. Prestwich noted that the Development Agreement allowed for that type of lot
arrangement. However, as previously discussed, the lot yield would not increase.

One of the issues brought up during the last discussion related to fencing. Current plans
showed that the vinyl fence along the south property line would remain. The Ordinance
requires a six-foot masonry wall, which was incorporated into the approval. Mr. Prestwich
noted that several issues were brought up during the last meeting related to the subdivision
itself. For instance, how trash collection would be handled. The applicant was present at
the Planning Commission Meeting and could address those specific concerns. Mr.
Prestwich reiterated that the proposed action was for the Commission to forward a
recommendation to the City Council. Staff included two Conditions of Approval.

Mr. Carter pointed out that there had been a public hearing at the last Planning Commission
Meeting. Good feedback was received from residents. Concerns were expressed about
the impact the project would have on the roadway immediately to the south of the project.
The comments also focused on snow management, waste collection, and recycling. In the
packet, there was a separate document, which was the Amended Development Agreement.
On Page 7 of the Agreement, there were redline changes, which made it clear that those
needs would be managed on-site.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the driveway to Lot 101. He wanted to understand if it
was inside or outside the subdivision. Commissioner Cannon also asked if there was a way
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               7
August 25, 2022

to restrict the rear access to Lot 101. It was close to Redwood Road and he worried about
the additional traffic. Mr. Prestwich wondered if Commissioner Cannon wanted to restrict
the ability for there to be a driveway directly off of Redwood Road. This was confirmed.
Mr. Prestwich explained that it could be included as a recommendation but he did not believe
UDOT would allow that type of access. The suggested language was read “Lots in the
subdivision can only access off of the interior private lane.”

Commissioner Rushton asked if the lane width was 32 feet, which would allow for parking
on both sides of the street. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that was the case. The main portion of
the lane was that width but it does narrow on the two easternmost driveways to 25 feet. That
portion of the lane only services Lots 105 and 106. The majority of the lane allows for
parking. Commissioner Rushton asked if the Homeowners Association (“HOA”) could
actively manage parking in the area to ensure that it does not spill out onto Riverton Ranch
Road. Mr. Carter explained that it is not lawful for vehicles to be stored on the street for
longer than 48 hours. It is the responsibility of the Riverton Police Department to enforce
that. If the Commission does not want temporary parking within the subdivision on the
streets, the curb would need to be painted red. This is a low-density project and he did not
foresee a lot of events spilling out onto Riverton Ranch Road.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the majority of the lots are approximately 17,000 square feet.
This is above the 14,000-square-foot minimum. The lots themselves are large enough for
wider driveways and larger garages. There was also better potential for off-street parking in
this area than in smaller lot subdivisions. Commissioner Park had concerns about potential
parking in the turn lane. It was noted that parking would not be permitted in a lane that was
marked. There could be signage to state that no parking was permitted west of the entrance
to the subdivision if desired by the Commission.

The applicant, Ryan McDougal, reported that the intention was to avoid negatively impacting
the neighbors. He had heard concerns about the waste and parking. When the private
street was first proposed, it was going to be 25 feet. To address the concerns with parking
and access, it was widened to a typical Riverton subdivision road width. This would allow
for quite a bit of parking within the development itself. There would also be a requirement
for three-car garages at the homes that could accommodate that. Mr. McDougal did not see
that the development would have an outsized impact compared to the neighborhood around
it. The lot sizes were comparable to the lot sizes nearby. He did not feel that the
development would be any more parking intensive than what already exists.

Commissioner Park noted that there had been concerns about access to Lot 101. The
Commission asked if it would be inside or outside of the gated area. Mr. McDougal stated
that he has an agreement with the landowner who owns the smaller parcel. He would sell
the ground to double the lot size of her existing parcel so there would be a more buildable
lot. Part of the agreement was that the owner would have access to the private street and
participate in costs for connections and impact fees. That owner would be part of the
development and pay for her share of the development costs. The driveway access would
be inside the gate. Commissioner Breinholt appreciated that Mr. McDougal had worked with
the property owner to make a previously undevelopable lot something that could be
developed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               8
August 25, 2022


Gary DeRose reported he owns the property that goes around the subject property. There
were a few things he felt should be discussed. For instance, flood control. He has irrigated
the property for several years and the water all goes to the east and north. Nothing about
flood control had been discussed so far. Mr. DeRose was concerned that the water will
come onto his property once the fence is installed. He also stressed the importance of the
fencing material. It needs to have the integrity to accommodate horses and other animals.
He also wondered what it would look like and if it will match other fences in the area. Since
there are no sidewalks in the subdivision, children in the area will need to walk on asphalt
rather than a proper walkway. He believed that a concrete walkway on one side of the street
should be considered to make sure the area is safe.

Al Bueller lives across the street from the development. He was not opposed to the
development because he believed it would be a good use of the land. Mr. Bueller wanted
to understand whether the hammerhead would be increased to the 32-foot lane width as
well to allow for parking there. Multiple generations now living in homes, which means there
are often a lot of vehicles to account for. He wanted to make sure that parking does not
become a problem. It was important for parking in the development to be contained and not
turn into a burden for other residents. The plans showed that there would be three inches
of asphalt. He was concerned that would not wear well.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton noted that there would be parking on both sides with a single lane
for traffic. He believed there would be times when the number of vehicles will impact the
entire development. As a result, he felt there should be something in the Development
Agreement to ensure that the developer addresses parking. For example, there could be
regulations through the HOA. While he liked the fact that the Development Agreement has
a separate addendum, parking concerns should be noted. Commissioner Rushton wanted
the HOA to regulate parking. That could be forwarded as a recommendation to the City
Council. The proposed language was as follows:

   •   “The HOA shall undertake the responsibility of regulating parking within the
       subdivision and enforce a 48-hour parking limit on the street.”

Commissioner Park did not share the concern that large gatherings or parties will create
parking issues. There was no way to know who will purchase the lots or how the homes will
be used. He believed homeowners would police themselves and act responsibly. He did
not feel the Commission needed to place additional common-sense requirements onto an
HOA. If there were issues, homeowners would inform the City as necessary. Commissioner
Park noted that at the previous meeting, the issue of flood control was discussed. That
information was included in the Development Plan and should not create a problem for
Mr. DeRose. Commissioner Park asked about fencing requirements. He wanted to
understand if the requirement was six feet above grade. Mr. Prestwich reported that the
City requirement is six feet from finished grade. Sometimes, some slopes create a grade
differential. He did not believe that was the case here.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
August 25, 2022

The Commission further discussed fences and grading. Mr. McDougal noted that the
measurements will be done from the inside of the fence. He believed there was only one
area where the grade was slightly higher. It would not be possible to see directly into a
neighbor’s yard, because the six feet would be measured from the inside the fence.
Mr. Prestwich took note of the concern and explained that City Staff would work with the
applicant and developer as the process moves forward.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application PLZ-22-4102,
"McDougal Development Agreement," to be located at 13040 South Redwood Road,
with the following conditions:

       1.     "Redline" corrections and issues be corrected prior to recordation of the
              Subdivision Plat.

       2.     Solid fencing, consistent with Riverton City's Ordinance requirements
              will be installed on the subdivision boundaries, including solid masonry
              fencing on Redwood Road.

Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       E.     CONDITIONAL USE FOR A PRIVATE LANE - RYAN HUGHES AND DEVIN
              HUBBARD ARE SEEKING APPROVAL FOR A PRIVATE LANE AT
              APPROXIMATELY 12984 SOUTH 4490 WEST. THE PROPERTY WAS
              RECENTLY ZONED AS R-3 (SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL WITH 14,000-
              SQUARE FOOT LOTS). PLZ 22-4006 APPLICANTS – DEVIN HUBBARD &
              RYAN HUGHES.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and
explained that the property is on the west side of the City. It is located at 12984 South 4490
West and a rezone to R-3 had been approved recently. Mr. Prestwich reported that the
General Plan for the area, which includes Sunday Drive, 4570 West, and south of Dutchman
Lane, is R-3. Over the past several years, several of the parcels in the area had changed
to R-3 and developed. Mr. Prestwich shared an image of the subject parcel with the
Commission. The applicants were requesting a private lane off Eagles Flight Road. It would
come in on the west side, down hammerheads, and service four lots. The four lots were all
over 14,000 square feet. Mr. Prestwich explained that the City Ordinance prefers a public
street unless it can be shown that the street cannot be used as a public street. Ultimately,
the Planning Commission would determine whether a private lane is suitable in the area.

Mr. Prestwich felt that the application was a solid candidate for a private lane. The applicant
produced slides to show what would happen if there was a regular road with a 54-foot right-
of-way with a fire-approved cul-de-sac. There were offset intersections on Eagles Flight
Road. Since that would become an intersection and not a driveway, the lots would not meet
the minimum lot size. The lots would need to be redrawn and the lot count would shift. It
was a concern that the lots would end up being shallow and wide rather than a regular width.
A cul-de-sac was shown because there was no chance for a public road to continue east or
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              10
August 25, 2022

north. Mr. Prestwich explained that the applicants own the parcel to the north but it is only
43 feet wide and not large enough for a public street.

Mr. Prestwich shared an aerial image with the Commission. He reported that the John Henry
Subdivision was zoned a few months before Hughes/Hubbard and they obtained a
Conditional Use for a private lane, which would come off of Sunday Drive. There was
another home in the area and the property owner had not expressed any interest in allowing
a road to come through. Hughes/Hubbard was stuck in several directions. Mr. Prestwich
explained that Staff considered several possibilities but during the process, it became clear
that there were few options. As a result, the private lane option made the most sense. The
applicant spoke to John Henry to determine whether they were interested in selling a portion
of land so it could be incorporated, but it did not change the road alignment for a public
street.

The Commission needed to determine whether the application met the criteria for a private
lane and outline what the private lane would look like. The Staff Report and motion language
stated that the private lane needs to be at least 25 feet wide. Mr. Prestwich explained that
32 feet is the minimum for parking on both sides. The Ordinance would allow 25 feet with
parking on one side. If the Commission wanted 32 feet, the motion language would need to
be adjusted to state, “32 feet of drivable surface.” The application was noticed to residents
within 300 feet of the property and no comments had been received. He was able to answer
outstanding Commission questions.

Commissioner Breinholt asked Mr. Prestwich to share the private lane drawing. He wanted
to know where the existing 4400 West lane will exit once the private lane is developed.
Mr. Prestwich identified the private lane on the drawing and explained that there would be a
hammerhead coming out onto Eagles Flight Road. Commissioner Breinholt noted that the
applicant reached out about the John Henry Subdivision. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the
applicant had spoken to the owner about the possibility of selling an awkward piece of
property. Ultimately, they were too far apart on the price. That piece of property would not
add enough value to the subject property, so no agreement was reached.

The applicant, Devin Hubbard, stated that he and Ryan Hughes had spoken to John Henry
several times and he had plans for the property. Unfortunately, an agreement was not made,
so the best-case scenario was outlined in the current proposal with the private lane. Chair
Cluff asked about a 25-foot versus a 32-foot street. Mr. Hubbard explained that the Engineer
had prepared a proposal for 29 feet.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Chair Cluff asked about the minimum requirement for parking on one side of the road.
Mr. Prestwich reported that it is 25 feet. Chair Cluff suggested that a Condition of Approval
state that the road must be wide enough for parking on one side. Commissioner Park
pointed out that the applicant stated that the current proposal was for 29 feet, which would
allow for parking on one side rather than on both sides. If three additional feet were added,
there could be parking on both sides. He felt it would be preferable to have a wider lane
with parking only on one side. This would prevent the drivable lane from being narrowed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   11
August 25, 2022


Commissioner Rushton felt this was a good infill project but believed that a 32-foot standard,
which allowed parking on both sides of the road, would be preferable. Commissioner Park
understood what Commissioner Rushton was saying but felt it would be better to leave the
open and drivable surface wider. Parking on one side of the road would create that. Chair
Cluff wondered how the applicant felt about a 32-foot lane. Mr. Hughes explained that when
the initial plans were laid out, the lane was approximately 29 feet. One of the biggest
concerns related to the storm drain. Adding a little bit of extra width would create difficulties.
If the Commission requested an additional three feet, it would impact the development.

Commissioner Park asked if Commissioner Rushton would approve the 29 feet that were
proposed by the applicant. After hearing from Mr. Hughes, Commissioner Rushton was in
support of the 29-foot lane rather than a 32-foot lane. Chair Cluff suggested that the
Commission use language that would ensure there is enough for parking on one side of the
street. If the applicant wanted to do more than that, they could do so, but would not be
constricted in the design. The Condition of Approval could be changed to 26 feet.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the purpose of Condition of Approval #8. Mr. Prestwich
explained that Staff had begun to include that Condition of Approval several years ago to
ensure that both the public and developer understood that the approval was a conceptual
approval of the lane and was not an approval of the actual engineering of the lane.
Commissioners discussed the appropriate lane width to include in the motion language.
Commissioner Breinholt noted that a wider road would result in a better product.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application PLZ-22-2031,
"Hughes and Hubbard Private Lane," to be located at 12984 South 4490 West, with
the following conditions:

       1.     Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private
              lanes.

       2.     A maximum of eight (8) lots may access the private lane.

       3.     Private lane shall be at least 26-feet-wide (or the minimum required to
              park on one side of the street) of drivable surface.

       4.     Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete, according to the
              standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
              Specifications.

       5.     The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the
              standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
              Specifications.

       6.     The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and
              emergency response.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 12
August 25, 2022

       7.     The subject parcel's driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall
              conform to the Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not
              limited to width, number of driveways, and separation distance between
              driveways.

       8.     The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval prior to any construction
              commencing on the private lane.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Park-
Aye; Commissioner Matheson-Aye; Commissioner Rushton-Nay; Chair Cluff-Aye;
Commissioner Breinholt-Aye; Commissioner Cannon-Aye. The motion passed 5-to-
1.

       F.     SITE PLAN – “MCNEIL AUTOMOTIVE,” WISHES TO EXPAND TO THEIR
              BUILDING AND ADD AN ADDITIONAL BUILDING AT 3611 WEST 12600
              SOUTH. APPLICANT – PETER MCNEIL.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated
that the site has frontage on 12600 South and Verona Creek Way. Verona Creek Way goes
into the Castlewood Estates Subdivision. The McNeil Automotive Shop had existed since
2003 and the Castlewood Estates Subdivision was developed in 2005. The subject property
was zoned M-1 (Light Industrial) and Castlewood Estates is R-3. There was some C-PO in
the area as well. The Planning Commission previously considered a Site Plan from the
applicant where two bays were proposed to be added to the existing building and some
slight modifications were proposed for the Site Plan. However, during that hearing, several
questions were posed by the Planning Commission and the item was continued.

After the previous Planning Commission Meeting on the item, Staff met with the applicant
and laid out some different options. Mr. Prestwich explained that the applicant was
concerned about some of the feedback from neighbors and wanted to investigate further.
Previously, the applicant wanted to amend the site and was looking for a Master Site Plan
for the second phase. The same application was being used and the applicant was asking
for Master and Final Site Plans for the entire phase. Mr. Prestwich reported that the lot lines
would be altered. Part of the application was to eliminate the north-south property lines and
create one property line that separates the two parcels in the middle. There was also a
subdivision. Since this was an industrial use within 200 feet of a residential zone, it was also
a Conditional Use. As a result, there were four different items that the Planning Commission
would be considered at the current meeting including a Master Site Plan, Final Site Plan,
Commercial Subdivision, and Conditional Use.

Mr. Prestwich shared the Subdivision Plan. The existing property had three lots. There was
a building on one lot with three long, parallel parcels. The applicant wanted to shift the lot
lines so there were two regularly shaped parcels. If the subdivision was not approved by
the Commission, the new building in the back would sit across property lines. This was not
something that the City wanted. There was a dedication to consider as well. When the road
was built coming into Castlewood Estates, the property lines to the back of the sidewalk
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                13
August 25, 2022

were not adjusted. Since the sidewalk was sitting on property that was currently owned by
Mr. McNeil, that would be dedicated.

The Site Plan was shared with the Commission. Mr. Prestwich explained that the tan color
illustrated the location of the existing building. The shop addition would be approximately
1,800 square feet in size. The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) parking had been
reconfigured and the islands would be reworked to better route the traffic. There had been
discussions about adjusting the existing parking as well. The applicant had some parking
that was not end-capped with islands, so the proposal was to flip that 90 degrees to make it
easier for people to get in and out of the bay doors. That was what was proposed for the
existing shop.

Mr. Prestwich showed where the new Napa Building would be located. It was 10,995 square
feet. The area was currently used for open storage for trucks, cars, and equipment. The
applicant would add parking along the south and east sides. There is an existing wall along
Verona Creek Way and that would come out and there would be a storefront. Additionally,
there would be 10 feet of landscaping between the parking and the sidewalk. Parking
spaces were 9.5’ x 18’ and exceeded the parking requirements. Mr. Prestwich pointed out
that the dumpster pad for both buildings was tucked between the buildings and would be
behind a gate. There was a transformer that sat in the back as well. Along the south
property line, there was an existing six-foot concrete fence.

There had been discussions with the owner next door about a driveway for large trucks to
circulate. It would work for the Napa store and there would be a Knox box in place. The
Fire Department looked at that and determined that it was acceptable. This addition would
improve access because the neighbor to the west only has access off of 12600 down a
narrow lane. Mr. Prestwich overviewed the setbacks. He reported that there is a one-foot
property line setback on the west, which is allowed in the M-1 Zone. The setbacks between
the buildings were 27 feet. There was approximately 61 feet to the street and 60 feet to the
property line. The setback minimum to the residential zone was 50 feet, so the applicant
met that requirement as well. Mr. Prestwich added that there was a five-foot landscape
buffer between the parking area and the fence. The fence would be six feet.

The Grading Plan was shared. Mr. Prestwich reported that the proposed grades on the
south line were within one foot of the existing grade. There was less than a one-foot
difference between the proposed contours and the curb lines. Whenever grading is
examined, ADA is considered. The ground needs to flatten out for the ADA walking routes.
He identified the ADA walking route and parking stalls. The Landscape Plan was reviewed.
29 trees were required and 33 were provided. The intention was to have low-water usage
landscaping. Additionally, the south line had been loaded with trees to create visual barriers.

Mr. Prestwich shared the Lighting Plan. He explained that the location of the fixtures had
been examined. Staff also considered how the light would be distributed. Based on the
Lighting Plan, there would be a lot of illumination in certain areas but it would not be bright
near the property line. The applicant had done everything possible to shield the neighbors
from intrusive lights. He noted that there was a requirement that the lights be shielded and
screened so they would not be directed at the houses next door.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   14
August 25, 2022


Mr. Prestwich shared the architecture of the shop addition. The new building would be a
few feet higher than the existing building in front. He identified the rooftop unit and shared
renderings to illustrate how that rooftop unit would appear from different vantage points. The
applicant added a parapet wall to address the visual impacts. However, that did not address
the visual impacts from 12600 South. If the Commission wanted additional screening,
alternative options could be discussed.

The new 10,995 square-foot Napa Building was on the south side. Mr. Prestwich made note
of the west elevation, which would face the other business. All of the brick would be the
same on the entire building, which was a brick façade on top of block. The south elevation
would face the residential property. He pointed out that there were two different elevations
on the roof height. The highest point was 29 feet to the top of the parapet. The mechanical
was slightly higher. There would be two doors, two garage doors, and the windows on the
south end. Mr. Prestwich stated that the rooftop mechanical equipment was screened. It
was not screened by the parapet walls but by metal screens around the equipment. The
metal screens would be painted to prevent drawing attention to the area.

Mr. Prestwich shared a drawing of the Napa Building from the east and north that showed
the storefront. The signage was shown for reference but would not be approved with this
application. There would need to be a Sign Permit process afterward. There would be a
glass storefront and primary entrance doors. Colored renderings were shared as well as an
aerial image where the entire parcel was outlined in yellow. It illustrated that the applicant
had been using the area as a storage and trucking yard. A road view from Verona Creek
Way was also shared with the Planning Commission.

Mr. Prestwich further discussed fencing. Adding onto the existing concrete fence would not
work and would require removing the fence. It was noted that the existing fence belongs to
the residents of Castlewood Estates and not McNeil Automotive. Condition of Approval #12
referenced a two-foot extension in height to the existing six-foot masonry fence along the
south property line. If the Commission felt that the six-foot fence was adequate, that
condition could be removed. Mr. Prestwich overviewed the other Conditions of Approval.

Notice was provided to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject property and one
email comment was received, which was forwarded to the Commission. Commissioner Park
noted that the resident who sent the emailed comment was not in favor of the eight-foot wall.
He wanted setbacks and landscaping to create that buffer. Commissioner Park wondered
if removing Condition of Approval #12 would create issues. Mr. Prestwich denied this and
explained that the decision would be consistent with the action the Commission took on the
west side of the subdivision with the existing fence.

Commissioner Rushton stated that the dumpster pad is located between the buildings. The
height of the new building is 29 feet so it was still lower than the residential standard of 35
feet. Mr. Prestwich confirmed this and clarified that it was just the back portion of the building
which is 29 feet. The other half is approximately 22 feet. Commissioner Rushton noted that
there is drainage contained within the parcel. Mr. Prestwich explained that there are
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  15
August 25, 2022

underground storage tanks that contain all of the water for the site. There was a Storm
Water Management Plan to make sure that the underground tanks remain clean.

Commissioner Breinholt referenced the south wall. He asked if it was a solid masonry wall.
Mr. Prestwich believed it was. Commissioner Breinholt noted that adding masonry to the
top of that wall would cause long-term issues. The options were to tear down the six-foot
wall and replace it with an eight-foot wall or to find a suitable extension that was not masonry.
Commissioner Cluff noted that with Premier Medical, the fencing was in place, but the
grading was much higher than that of the neighbors. She wondered if there was any chance
that something similar could happen with the McNeil Automotive application. Mr. Prestwich
denied this and stated that the grading was established.

The applicant, Peter McNeil, appreciated City Staff for all their work on the project. He
wanted to be a good partner for Riverton City and also work with the neighboring subdivision.
Mr. McNeil has a shop in Sandy that has been there for over 30 years. He took it over from
his father approximately 23 years ago. McNeil Automotive has only been in the new location
for three years. He explained that McNeil Automotive is a specialty shop that trains and
cultivates technicians. They wrote a program approximately three years ago that was
adopted by Napa nationally. It is an apprentice program to help young men and women
become technicians. He stated that there is currently a technician shortage. The training
curriculum that McNeil Automotive uses is free to the technicians. After two years, the
technicians would be certified. This program was being extended to Riverton and Napa was
a partner in that work. There are 800 people in the United States using the program that
was written and developed by McNeil Automotive.

Mr. McNeil wanted to continue to give back to the community and educate young
technicians. He reported that in the next three years, 40% of technicians will retire, but only
10% are coming in. Costs and wait times will increase if this pattern continues. That was
the reason it was so important that McNeil Automotive be part of the solution. To have a
partner like Napa, who will continue to send trainers, was extremely beneficial.

Commissioner Park wondered if this would be a training center. Mr. McNeil stated that they
have graduated five apprentice technicians over the last 3 ½ years. There are currently two
enrolled. He explained that there is a waiting list with names from the community colleges.
There will be an additional 1,500 to 2,000 square feet in the Napa Building that will be used
as a Corporate Training Center for Napa. Instructors will be flown in to do the training on-
site. There will also be apprentices working in the added area, which will include four bays.
Commissioner Park asked if there was sufficient parking to accommodate the training and
classes. Mr. McNeil clarified that those classes only had six to eight technicians at a time
and will take place once a month. The apprentice program itself would take place hands-on
inside the shop.

Anthony Willardson identified himself as the property owner to the south of the subject
property. He expressed his appreciation to Mr. McNeil and City Staff and stated that the
current application is much better than what was originally proposed. His initial concerns
related to a loading dock near his back window. Mr. Willardson stated that his property has
a different elevation than the rest of the subdivision. His property is three or four feet higher
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          16
August 25, 2022

and looks into the subject property. After seeing what was currently proposed, he was
comfortable with the existing six-foot wall and enhanced landscaping. He would not object
to Condition of Approval #12 being removed from the motion language. His remaining
concern had to do with hours of operation and deliveries.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-22-8014, "McNeil’s Automotive” Master and Final Site Plan, Commercial
Subdivision, and Conditional Use, with the following conditions:

      1.     Site Plan Improvements and the buildings shall be consistent with the
             plans presented to the Planning Commission, except where otherwise
             noted.

      2.     Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining Staff redlines on the civil
             plans.

      3.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with the
             Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations
             of the Riverton City Engineering Division.

      4.     The applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
             Management Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances.

      5.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
             construction grading on the site.

      6.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
             City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
             Fire Codes.

      7.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

      8.     Rooftop mechanical shall be screened by parapet walls or rooftop
             screens, as shown.

      9.     Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

      10.    A Building Permit for the building addition may be issued prior to the plat
             recording, however, the plat must be recorded prior to a Building Permit
             being issued for the new Napa Building.

      11.    All site improvements for the entire site, including but not limited to
             parking, landscaping, and fencing, shall be installed prior to a Certificate
             of Occupancy being given for the new Napa Building.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                17
August 25, 2022

Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       G.     SUBDIVISION – “MYERS PARK SUBDIVISION,” A PROPOSAL FOR A 4-
              ACRE SUBDIVISION OF 15 LOTS TO BE LOCATED AT 2356 WEST 11800
              SOUTH. APPLICANT – BEN HOWELL, CALIFORNIA POOLS.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated
that the item was for the subdivision of 4.04-acres of property located at 2356 West 11800
South on the north side of 11800 South. The property had been the subject of several public
hearings, including a Rezone Hearing and a Conditional Use for a private lane. The
applicant was now back before the Planning Commission for subdivision approval. The
zoning that was approved by the City Council was the R-4 SD Zone, which has a minimum
lot size of 10,000 square feet for all lots, except for the lots that back Midas Creek, which
are required to be 14,000 square feet in size. Each of the proposed lots meets or exceeds
the minimum lot size and dimensions required within the zone.

Mr. Prestwich explained that notices were sent to residents within 300 feet of the subdivision.
Some feedback was received and those comments were forwarded to the Commission.
Mr. Prestwich further discussed the zoning and explained that the R-4 SD Zone was put in
place but the zoning to the east was RR-22, which created an incompatible use. The parcel
to the south is also incompatible. The majority of the properties to the west are zoned R-3.
The SD designation specifies that the northernmost lots adjacent to Midas Creek need to be
a minimum of one-third acre in size and a Development Agreement needs to be prepared to
include shared access requirements with the adjacent properties to the west. A Shared
Access Agreement needs to be in place before the Subdivision is approved. That
information was included in the packet.

The current configuration was shared with the Commission. The lane had been brought in
and terminated in a cul-de-sac. There was no connection, though one was previously shown
on the Conditional Use. However, there was a guaranteed access point. Mr. Prestwich
identified the Parcel #002 Access and Utility Easement. There was also an entry number,
which would be recorded against the property. This would provide more details about the
access and would be noted on the plat. The existing right-of-way had also been noted. The
current access configuration was compared to the previous proposal.

Mr. Prestwich shared the Development Agreement, which included 17 pages and a
configuration that was agreed upon by the two impacted parties. Riverton City was not part
of that agreement. It had been reviewed to ensure that it meets all requirements but the City
was not a signing party. Tonight’s hearing would not vest the west property owner to any
zoning approvals, private lane, lot counts, or subdivision. The owner would need to come
back to the Commission to make any changes. The only thing the City would be tied to was
the access point shown on the approved plans. Mr. Carter clarified that the Development
Agreement would ensure that access issues and shared utilities were worked out between
two neighboring property owners.        The Development Agreement stated that they
contemplated developing the property to the west. The language in the Development
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                18
August 25, 2022

Agreement stated that this was a contemplation rather than a final approval. The City was
not a signatory to the agreement. Mr. Carter felt it addressed the issues.

The proposed Subdivision Plat was shared as well as the Grading Plan. Mr. Prestwich noted
that the flood route would follow the road down. Stormwater from the lane would go into a
pond in the back and could overflow into Midas Creek. This had been done in other areas
as well. Mr. Prestwich overviewed the Utility Plan with the Commission. Utility lines were
stubbed to the west adjoining property. He reported that the Planning Commission required
that the front section of the road be wider than 32 feet and that there be sidewalk on at least
one side. The note on the plan stated that there would be a monolithic curb and sidewalk
next to the roadway. This design met all of the minimum requirements for fire.

Mr. Prestwich reported that there are two existing ditches. One would remain in the current
alignment and another would be rerouted down the property line to the connection point.
The result was that all of the lots would be buildable. He discussed fencing and stated that
the perimeter of the subdivision would be fenced with six-foot masonry fencing along 11800
South, Midas Creek, and each property that is currently zoned RR-22. The boundary shared
with properties zoned R-3 would be fenced with a six-foot white vinyl fence. One of the
neighbors expressed concern with the fence due to access but Staff’s position was that the
property line needs to have a six-foot fence. No accommodation could be made to address
the adjoining property owner's concerns. Mr. Prestwich reviewed the Conditions of Approval
included in the proposed motion language.

Commissioner Rushton asked about the masonry fence. He wondered if foam core would
be permitted. Mr. Prestwich explained that it would not be permitted on 11800 South or
Midas Creek. There was a requirement for solid core masonry along the canal.
Commissioner Cannon asked about a requirement to improve the future access now.
Mr. Prestwich explained that utilities had been stubbed there. That was part of the
Development Agreement. However, there could be a sign placed in the area to state, “This
Road Will Connect,” or “Future Stub Road,” when the development is completed.
Alternatively, the sidewalk or monolithic curb could be extended further.

Chair Cluff wondered if waste management and snow removal should be taken care of within
the community. Mr. Prestwich noted that every time there is a private lane, those issues are
discussed. He had spoken to the developer and since this was not a gated area, it would
be easier for him to obtain a contract with the waste removal company. The snow could be
pushed downhill, which was where the overflow and stormwater are going.

The applicant, Ben Howell, thanked Staff and the Commission for their efforts. He shared
information related to mailboxes and explained that he visited the Post Office earlier that
day. There was a desire to place a cluster box on the north corner of Lot 102. Mr. Howell
had also been in touch with Waste Management who was willing to contract directly with
them to address trash services. As for the property to the west, he had been working
tirelessly with the property owner to make sure that all of his concerns were addressed. That
property owner initially wanted access through Lot 103. It was determined that it would be
better to have that one access rather than having the access down between Lots 107 and
108.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              19
August 25, 2022


Commissioner Cannon asked if the agreement with Midas Creek was already in place.
Mr. Howell explained that all of the water would be contained on site. Nothing would be
drained into Midas Creek unless there was some sort of massive flood.

Ken Higgins reported that he lives at 2260 West. He was glad that the irrigation, which was
his main concern, was being addressed. Mr. Higgins noted that he spoke to one of his
neighbors recently who stated that there was an open ditch behind his property. That may
need to be addressed or looked at further.

Kim Nowers lives near Lot 109, which is near the northeast corner of the subdivision. He
shared some of his concerns with the Commission, which included fencing. He worried that
the homes will be built up one or two feet higher for drainage purposes and he would end
up with a four-foot wall rather than a six-foot wall. It would make sense for the walls to be
slightly taller to accommodate that. He also felt that something stronger than a masonry
fence was needed. Mr. Nowers also wanted to know if the houses would be multi-story
buildings. He was concerned about secondary water as well. He has very poor water
pressure and he did not want it to get worse. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the masonry fences
will be solid and not foam core.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-22-1001, "Myers Park Subdivision,” to be located at 2356 West 11800 South with
the following conditions:

      1.     Address any outstanding Riverton City Staff redline comments on the
             plans.

      2.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with Riverton City
             Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations of the
             Riverton City Engineering Division.

      3.     The applicant must obtain any necessary approvals or permits from
             applicable outside agencies or jurisdictions.

      4.     Any necessary easements or agreements on the property be recorded
             with the Salt Lake County Recorder.

      5.     The site and structure shall comply with all applicable standards and
             ordinances of the City, including the International Building and Fire
             Code.

      6.     Private lane be named with an approved name and the developer install
             a street sign at the entrance to the private lane.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                       20
August 25, 2022

      7.    Subdivision plat shall not be recorded until the Development Agreement
            with the west adjoined property is executed.

      8.    Existing ditches shall be piped prior to Building Permits being issued in
            the subdivision.

      9.    Perimeter fencing shall be installed as shown on Civil Plan Set Sheet UT1
            (Stamped on 7-29-22) prior to Building Permits being issued in the
            subdivision.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.           The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    NONE.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS – N/A

      A.    NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    MINUTES APPROVAL – JUNE 9, 2022.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the
Meeting Minutes from the Planning Commission Meeting held on June 9, 2022, as
presented. Commissioner Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 9:26 p.m.
