                            MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            April 23, 2026
Subject:         PLZ-26-8011, Amended Commercial Master Site Plan, “Rock Ridge” located
                 at 12653 South 3600 West. Applicant- Altus Development.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission CONTINUE PLZ-26-8011, Rock Ridge Amended Master Site
to the May 14, 2026 Planning Commission Meeting.


Background

This is a public hearing for amending the Rock Ridge Commercial Master Site Plan located at
the southeast corner of 12600 South and 3600 West.

The Rock Ridge Master Site Plan was approved by the Planning Commission in August of
2024. The Master Plan showed eight (8) lots with planned uses:
      Lot 1 – AFCU
      Lot 2 – Drive through Restaurant.
      Lot 3 – Drive through Coffee/Drink
      Lot 4 – Drive through Restaurant
      Lot 5 - Tire Store
      Lot 6 – Muli-tenant or medical
      Lot 7 - Hotel
      Lot 8 - Daycare or Preschool

The Proposed Amendment would alter the parking configuration and planned uses of Lots 6
and Lot 7.




Report by: TJP
4/21/2026
Recommendations

Staff is recommending this application be continued to the May 14 PC meeting to allow the
Applicant time to make changes to their plan amendment.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this property and posted on the City’s
webpage. At the time of this report there were no public comments.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1. Public Notice including Area Map.
         2. Previously Approved Master Site Plan
         3. Minutes from the August 8, 2024 PC meeting.




Report by: TJP
4/21/2026
                                                NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                    The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on
                                    Thursday, April 23, 2026 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton City
                                    Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take public
                                    comment on the following application:
                       Brandon Harris of Altus Development is requesting an amendment to the
                       Rock Ridge Master Site Plan for commercial property located at 12653
South 3600 West. The proposal is for the Rock Ridge Master Site Plan, but the changes primarily
affect lots 6 and 7.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
2010 North Redwood Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
     (801) 521-8529 - AWAengineering.net
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 9
August 8, 2024


       3.     Any landscaping changes must be approved in a Landscaping Plan
              submitted to Staff for review for compliance with existing Code
              requirements.

       4.     Red brick will be added to the column on the southwest corner from the
              ground to the wood.

The motion was seconded by Chair Matheson. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Knudsen-Yes, Chair Matheson-Yes, Commissioner Rushton-No, Commissioner Cluff-
Yes, Commissioner Keele-Yes, Commissioner Beck-Yes, Commissioner Cannon-Yes.
The motion passed 7-to-1.

Commissioner Rushton stated that there are several subjective items in the Ordinance. He
believed the Ordinance needs to be reviewed and updated to remove unclear language. It
was noted that the General Plan update review would include other elements, and this
Ordinance can be included in that discussion.

       E.     ROCK RIDGE SUBDIVISION, PLZ-23-8003, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              COMMERCIAL MASTER PLAN OF 6.7 ACRES LOCATED ON THE
              SOUTHEAST CORNER OF 12600 SOUTH AND 3600 WEST. APPLICANT
              – GRAYSON SMITH, ENGINEER.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that it is for a new subdivision that has
not yet been reviewed by the Planning Commission. The 6.7-acre parcel has been vacant
for a number of years. The America First Credit Union ("AFCU") is under construction on
the corner, which has generated a lot of interest in the parcel. The LDS Church is to the
south and is zoned RR-22. Because of the zoning, it is an incompatible use. South of the
church is the Homestead Phase 2 Subdivision that was approved by the Planning
Commission at its June 27, 2024, meeting and is zoned RM-6-SD. The two lots behind the
LDS Church and subject property are zoned RR-22 with animal rights. Scooter's Coffee is
to the northeast of the subject property and is zoned C-G. Notices were sent to property
owners within 300 feet of the subject property.

Mr. Prestwich presented a rendering of the AFCU building that is currently under
construction and noted that the developer knew the entire site would be developed, but the
credit union needed to begin construction immediately. They came to the City with a site
plan that laid all the groundwork for the Master Site Plan. The AFCU Site Plan was approved
by the Planning Commission on May 2, 2023, and that plan will not change. Mr. Prestwich
believes it will be open for business in fall 2024.

The proposed subdivision will have eight total lots, including the AFCU. Three phases have
been identified. Phase 1 is the backbone infrastructure and roads for the other pads on the
site, and Mr. Prestwich anticipated a final Site Plan for Phase 1 to be presented to the
Commission within the next two months. The individual lots will then come in any order. An
eight-foot precast wall will be installed by AFCU along the south property line to the Scooters
south boundary. He noted that Commissioner Rushton asked many questions about the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              10
August 8, 2024


site, and Mr. Prestwich copied all Planning Commission members on his responses.
Questions regarding lighting and grading will be addressed with the Master Site Plan, but
the fence installed by AFCU will protect the residential lots.

Two entrances are proposed, one from 3600 West and one from 12600 South. Truck
movements are shown on the site plan for the Fire Department review, and delivery trucks
will follow a similar path. All drive aisle widths are set by City Code. Details such as how
close the parking can be to sidewalks and the required landscaping between them, parking
counts, and stall widths are also set by Code.

Mr. Prestwich indicated that the Site Plan shows two drive-through type businesses and a
tire or automobile repair shop on 12600 South, but that is subject to change. Each pad's
site plan will be reviewed by the Commission prior to construction. A preschool is shown at
the rear inside corner, with play areas behind it. Lot 7 may be a hotel, although concerns
have been expressed about the 35-foot height limit, which is the maximum allowed by City
Code with no possibility for variations. Another lot may be a multi-tenant medical building.
The AFCU will be on the corner, with mixed uses on the remaining lots. There will also be
a connection to Scooter's Coffee. Access from 12600 South will be restricted; the islands
required by UDOT will ensure a right-in, right-out approach. The southern access from 3600
South has full entry/exit access. Mr. Prestwich noted that if the uses for any of the pads
change in a way that impacts access, it will be addressed with the final Site Plans.

The Master Site Plan includes signage for the development. The subdivision qualifies for
pole signs as long as they are inclusive of the entire development.

Grading is from west to east. The development will have underground stormwater storage
chambers, not above-ground ponds. The chambers function like a pond, but they are
underground so the real estate above them can be used. There are standards regarding
how they work, and design engineers know how to use them. The water collected in the
chambers either leach into the ground or seeps out slowly through pipes into the City system.
Stormwater Engineer, Tom Beasley, and City Engineer, Matt Castle, make sure that they
treat the water before it goes into the tanks so the porous space in the tanks does not fill
with sediment and prevent the water from leaching into the ground. Annual maintenance
and inspections are also required.

Mr. Prestwich noted that Staff from multiple departments reviewed the Site Plan and
recommended approval.

Commissioner Rushton thanked Mr. Prestwich for answering the questions he posed via
email and asked for clarification on the approval process regarding the businesses shown
on the Site Plan. For example, Lot 3 and Lot 4 show fast-food restaurants, but the final
tenant could be a different business type. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the business types
could change based on the specific tenants for each pad. The developer and engineer
waited until they had a good idea of what types of businesses would be in the development.
He noted that they did a similar thing with VSM. There were a few modifications to the final
Site Plans, but not significant ones. If Lot 7, for example, becomes two separate drive-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                11
August 8, 2024


through restaurants, a Master Site Plan amendment may be required.              The Planning
Commission will review each final Site Plan.

Commissioner Rushton asked if a tire store is an approved or conditional use in the C-G
zone. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the Commission was not approving any conditional uses
with the Master Site Plan. If anything is a conditional use, they will either apply for a
Conditional Use Permit concurrent with the Site Plan or independently prior to submitting
the Site Plan. Hotels and preschools are conditional, and drive-throughs might also be
conditional. The Master Site Plan does not eliminate the Conditional Use process.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the setbacks or height could be further specified. He
indicated that the applicant had done a good job in making Lot 8 more neighbor-friendly. If
the Commission wanted to ensure that the structure on that lot retained the setback or was
only a single story, he asked if that could be part of the Master Site Plan approval. Mr.
Prestwich stated that the Planning Commission did not have the ability to alter the building
height or setback requirements in the C-G zone because it is part of the permitted use. If
they apply for a Conditional Use Permit and the use can be tied to the need for an increased
setback, then it can be required. It would be addressed with the final Site Plan or Conditional
Use Permit.

Chair Matheson asked where the left-in access was located. Mr. Prestwich stated that a left
turn is allowed from 12600 South into Scooter's Coffee. No left will be allowed at the second
access from 12600 South. Left-hand turns are allowed from both 3600 West accesses. If
the uses change, it is possible the City could require an island to be installed on 3600 West
to prevent left-hand turns.

Chair Matheson asked for a more detailed explanation of the treated water in the
underground tanks. Mr. Prestwich stated that a box is installed with a lid that is similar to a
sewer lid. Water flows into the tank. Garbage and oil float to the top of the tank and sediment
falls to the bottom, which are removed during regular maintenance. The water then flows
through baffles and into the underground system. The water going into the underground
system is cleaner than the water that enters the tanks, but it is not chemically treated. He
noted that manhole access into a concrete box is easy to maintain with a vacuum truck.

The applicant's engineer, Grayson Smith, thanked Mr. Prestwich for his presentation and
stated that he had nothing to add, but was happy to answer any questions.

Chair Matheson asked if AFCU owns the development or if it is owned by a different
developer. Mr. Smith indicated that it is a different developer. Chair Matheson expressed
his concern about left-hand turns into the property. Mr. Smith stated that there is a case to
be made for a median on 3600 West to ensure that there is no conflict at the northern
driveway, but the traffic study did not identify any issues.

Commissioner Cluff asked if Mr. Smith knew which businesses would be opening. Mr. Smith
stated that he has spoken with In-N-Out Burger and Starbucks, but there were no formal
agreements.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 12
August 8, 2024



Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Catherine Voutaz, owner of Scooter's Coffee, stated that she is glad to see the development
taking place. In looking at the proposed plan, she was concerned about the extra traffic
coming through the Scooter's parking lot and noted that there should be some consideration
related to the width of that access. It is currently very narrow. If a car turns left from 12600
South across traffic, that could impede outgoing traffic. Regarding Lot 3, which is the
proposed coffee shop, she is concerned about a similar business opening so close to
Scooter's. She also noted that the drawing shows a seven stack on the building, but coffee
shops require 10 to 12, and the stacks can get very long. She also stated that the specific
business could affect the traffic flow. For example, a Sodalicious would not have morning
traffic, which could change the traffic study.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton asked Mr. Prestwich about the entrance to Scooter's Coffee. If the
exit to 12600 West is also used by the other development, he asked what the process would
be to make the entry wider and if it would need to be part of this approval. Mr. Prestwich
stated that the access is right turn only. It could be reviewed and discussed further when
the final Site Plan for Lot 5 is presented because that access will not be open until that time.
It was noted that that specific access was not included in the traffic study, but there is an
agreement between the properties regarding cross-traffic. Any widening on 12600 South
would be at UDOT's discretion.

Commissioner Cannon stated that, if both In-N-Out Burger and Starbucks open in the
development, traffic will be an issue. Vehicular traffic from the main corridors is a concern,
but pedestrian traffic should also be considered. He asked if it was appropriate to give
blanket approval on the Master Site Plan without knowing which individual businesses would
go into the development. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that that is the process. The Master Site
Plan is approved after considering the perimeter impacts and backbone infrastructure and
with a general idea of what businesses will be included, and then the specific details are
worked out with each final Site Plan. The uses can change, so the specific information is
reviewed when the final Site Plan applications are considered.

The example was given that Lots 7 and 8 were originally going to be an office complex. A
traffic impact study was done that indicated the possibility that it would create internal trips
and reduce the number of trips that would impact 3600 West and/or 12600 South. Since
that time, it has changed to two lots containing a possible hotel and possible school, which
changes traffic movement. The traffic study was redone to account for those specific uses.
If the uses change again, the traffic study will again be updated to reflect the new
occupancies.

City attorney, Ryan Carter explained that in regional commercial development projects
where there is a central, anchor tenant like Lowe's or Walmart, that business carries the flag
for the rest of the project, but it is all one commercial site. When Walmart came to Riverton,
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                            13
August 8, 2024


it was constructed first, and then a number of pad sites were built around it. As each pad
was leased, a final Site Plan was required for that specific region. It is common for the
individual pad sites to be roughed in on the Master Site Plan. If a unique site calls for a
unique use, amendments to the traffic studies could be required. Those are issues that
come into focus as the final Site Plans are reviewed.

Commissioner Rushton expressed his concern about the only left-hand entrance from 12600
South being through Scooter's Coffee. The Site Plan requires access from an adjacent
business. In the examples provided by Mr. Cart, access was engineered for the anchor
tenant. There is no major access point for this development, only small accesses with
restrictions. People making left-hand turns from 12600 South will most likely enter through
Scooter's. He asked what happens down the road if the volume of traffic coming through
Scooter's overwhelms their business. It was clarified that an agreement had been put in
place with UDOT. If a safety hazard is created by people making left-hand turns through
Scooter's Coffee, UDOT will have to take action.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-24-8003,
Commercial Site Plan for Rock Ridge Master Site Plan, to be located at 12653 South
3600 West, subject to the following conditions:

      1.     The America First Site Plan (approved 1-26-23, amended 5-25-23) is
             incorporated into this Master Site Plan but is not changed or altered
             except where otherwise noted.

      2.     A Final Plan for each phase shall be reviewed by staff and approved by
             the Planning Commission before construction may begin.

      3.     Architecture and landscaping shall meet Riverton City requirements and
             will be reviewed during each Final Plan application.

      4.     The first phase Final Plan must include the shared infrastructure and the
             proposed subdivision plat. The subdivision must be recorded before
             construction work may commence on the other phases.

      5.     Shared Access or Cross Access agreements for all internal properties
             shall be formalized and recorded with the first Final Plan.

      6.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with the Riverton
             City Standards and Ordinances and with the recommendations of the
             Riverton City Engineer.

      7.     The site, utilities, and structures shall comply with any and all applicable
             Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, including the International
             Building and Fire Codes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                       14
August 8, 2024


      8.    Proposed Final Plans which introduce buildings or uses different than
            indicated on this Master Site Plan, may be required by the City Engineer
            to complete additional engineering studies. Studies showing 3600 West
            impacts may result in requirements for traffic mitigation, including turn
            movement restrictions on 3600 West.

The motion was seconded by Chair Matheson.           The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    MINUTES FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
            JULY 11, 2024.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of July 11, 2024, as reported. Commissioner Cluff
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:27 PM.
