                        RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                SEPTEMBER 8, 2022

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                       Staff:

Shelly Cluff, Chair                                Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                        Lisa Halverson, City Planner
Jon Gilchrist                                      Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Evan Matheson
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Shelly Cluff called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. The Pledge of
Allegiance was led by Commissioner Cannon.

2.     PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

       A.     COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN- “WALMART FUEL STATION”- WALMART IS
              SEEKING APPROVAL FOR A FUEL STATION TO BE LOCATED AT 3823
              WEST 13400 SOUTH. APPLICANT – RYAN ALVAREZ

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff
Report and stated that the above matter involves a request for a Walmart Fuel Station to be
located at 3823 West 1400 South. The existing Walmart was approved in 2005 as part of a
Master Site Plan. A property rendering was displayed. Due to the proximity of Bangerter
Highway and the 13400 South interchange, Staff presented the Commercial Site Plan
proposal to the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) Project Manager. No conflicts
were reported.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the proposed building is 1,440 square feet in size with parking
located along the front of the structure. The gas canopies include 16 fueling stations and
will require slight modifications to the existing islands. Staff requested clarification regarding
pedestrian access to the existing store.

The property will include water-wise landscaping with complimentary rock accents. It
exceeds the number of required trees with a mix of vegetation and plantings throughout.
The exterior features include a grey and blue color scheme with stone accents.
Mr. Prestwich stated that the screening of rooftop mechanical equipment remains a red line
item that needs to be addressed. The gas canopy will be constructed of prefabricated metal
material with cultured stone wainscoting tying into the main building. Staff recommended
approval with conditions listed in the Staff report.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             2
September 8, 2022

Commissioner Park joined the meeting.

Commissioner Gilchrist noticed that the property line runs through the fuel canopy.
Mr. Prestwich explained that both properties are owned by Walmart and treated as a single
complex. Where there is common ownership it functions as one site. It was noted that a
property line adjustment is not required.

Jacob Blaze was present representing Walmart and thanked Staff for their presentation and
ongoing support.

There were no public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Matheson asked if there was any reason the applicant would not construct
the sidewalk. Mr. Blaze stated that there are no issues with the sidewalk extension across
the front of the parking stalls. Plans will be updated during the construction document
process to do so.

Commissioner Ruston moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of Application PLZ-22-8013 Walmart Fuel Final Site Plan with the following conditions:

      1.     Site Plan Improvements and the buildings shall be consistent with the
             plans presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise
             noted.

      2.     The applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines on the
             civil plans.

      3.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with the
             Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations
             of the Riverton City Engineering Division.

      4.     The Applicant must create and agree to flow a Long-Term Storm Water
             Management Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances.

      5.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
             construction grading on the site.

      6.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
             City Standards and ordinances, including the International Building and
             Fire Codes.

      7.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

      8.     Rooftop mechanical shall be screened by parapet walls or rooftop
             screens.

      9.     Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
September 8, 2022


       10.    A sidewalk shall be included to connect all parking stalls and the
              building.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                  The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       B.     HOME OCCUPATION – “DG TREE LLC,” A TREE SERVICE COMPANY TO
              BE LOCATED AT 12403 S. REDWOOD ROAD. APPLICANT – DANIEL
              GILSTER.

The application was withdrawn by the applicant.

       C.     HOME OCCUPATION – “PORTER TRANSPORT,” A DELIVERY
              COMPANY TO BE LOCATED AT 13108 SOUTH 1210 WEST. APPLICANT
              – ERIC PORTER – WITHDRAWN AT APPLICANT’S REQUEST.

The application was withdrawn by the applicant.

       D.     HOME OCCUPATION – “PRODIGY BILINGUAL DAYCARE LLC,” AN IN-
              HOME DAYCARE TO BE LOCATED AT 12698 SOUTH STONE HEIGHTS
              DRIVE. APPLICANT – SANDRA PEYNADO.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. City Planner, Lisa Halverson, presented the Staff
report and stated that the above item involves consideration of an in-home daycare to be
located at 12698 South Stone Heights Drive. The home has two stories and is 1,200 square
feet in size. The property is zoned RM-8D.

Mr. Halverson reported that the applicant is requesting approval to give language classes in
addition to providing daycare services with up to seven children per day in addition to her
own child. The children will come and leave at various points throughout the day. The
applicant’s husband works remotely from home and there is no other home occupation on
the site. Adequate guest parking is provided across the street with approximately 25 trips
per week. A visual display of the property was presented. Ms. Halverson noted that concern
has been expressed concern regarding a lack of proper fencing in the backyard. After
contacting the State Office, the applicant agreed to apply for a Residential Certificate, which
would eliminate the backyard fencing requirement and limit the maximum number of children
at any one time to eight.

Commissioner Cannon was also concerned with the lack of backyard fencing. Ms.
Halverson stated that the applicant will be applying for a Residential Certificate where
backyard fencing is not a requirement.

Commissioner Park stated that seven students per day would yield 14 vehicle trips. The
proposed conditions limit that number to eight. Ms. Halverson stated that the condition
would be corrected to allow 16 trips per day.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   4
September 8, 2022

Commissioner Matheson questioned the lack of fencing requirement. Ms. Halverson
reported that they have not received any questions or comments from adjacent neighbors
with that concern.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter, did not think it would be unreasonable to place a condition stating
if the applicant permits children in her care to play in the yard surrounding the property, that
it be fenced. He suggested that if the applicant cannot get clearance for a fence from the
Homeowners Association, the children would not be allowed to play outside.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked what it is about this application that elevates it from a simple
application or a Staff review to a Conditional Use. Mr. Carter noted that it is anticipated that
the use will generate 14 trips per day with 24 trips allowed. Staff stated that the matter was
brought to the Commission due to the number of trips within a small space. If the application
exceeds 12 trips per day, it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Rushton raised a question regarding the City’s purview to require fencing if
the State allows the use without it. Mr. Carter clarified that the Permitted Home Occupation
Section of the City Code states that outdoor play areas shall be fenced in accordance with
Riverton Fencing Standards Subsection 8 of 10.190.070. If an impact is identified, there is
discretion to impose reasonable conditions. A condition may be added to specify that if the
application intends for the children to play in the area with some regularity, it must be fenced.

Commissioner Cannon wondered if there was a process by which the application is
approved and allows for additional time to construct or install the required fencing.
Mr. Carter that stated the current Code requires outdoor play areas to be fenced. The
applicant may decide that the area will not be used as a play area at which point, a condition
can be added stating that if she later decides to use it, she must fence it. The condition
would allow her additional time to ease into that condition if needed.

The applicant, Sandra Peynado, stated she has requested permission to open a small
daycare in her home. With a two-year-old son, she intends to have six or fewer children.
She will move to a commercial building if and when her business grows. The children will
be indoors only and she does not intend to place signage that will alter the harmony of the
neighborhood.

Commissioner Park asked about the anticipated age range of children in the home.
Ms. Peynado stated that the children in her care will be two to four years of age with varying
drop-off and pick-up times throughout the day. Parking will be used for drop off and pick up
only.

There were no public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Mr. Carter reiterated that the applicant intends for children to be dropped off and picked up
at staggered times. Should there be congestion or clusters of vehicles, it would become an
enforcement issue. Fencing was further discussed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
September 8, 2022

Commissioner Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-2034
“Prodigy Bilingual Daycare, LLC” at 12698 South Stone Heights Drive with the
following conditions:

       1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.

       2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

       3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health
              Department approvals.

       4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

       5.     The Home Occupation may have up to 8 children per day (number
              includes the applicant’s children under 6 years old.)

       6.     The Home Occupation may have up to 16 vehicle trips per day by
              customers/parents.

       7.     The applicant is approved to teach the classes five (5) days per week.

       8.     Customers must utilize the driveway or the guest parking lot across the
              street for drop-off and pick-ups.

       9.     All drop off and pick up shall be staggered to not create congestion on
              the roadway.

       10.    Should the outdoor area become a play area, a fence meeting Riverton
              City Ordinance standards shall be installed.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       E.     HOME OCCUPATION – “SWEETHEARTS SALON,” A HAIR AND NAIL
              SALON TO BE LOCATED AT 11882 CRAIG VIEW LANE. APPLICANT –
              WHITNEY CRAIG.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Ms. Halverson presented the Staff Report and stated
that the above item is for consideration of a hair and nail salon to be located at 11882 Craig
View Lane. A property rendering was displayed. The applicant intends to rent half of the
salon to another employee. Both anticipate five patrons per day or up to 10 total patrons
per day. The home is located at the end of the development with an extra wide driveway
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  6
September 8, 2022

and adequate on-street parking. Staff recommended approval with conditions listed in the
Staff report.

Commissioner Rushton wondered how potential residents will address concerns as its
located on a private lane. Mr. Carter stated it is assumed this is permittable under the current
Covenants, Codes, and Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) applicable to the property. The applicant
would be responsible with respect to whether the use is tolerated within the subdivision.

Chair Cluff asked if any were impacted by the notice as it appears that neighboring
properties have not yet been built out. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that 26 notices were sent
out and there are four lots that access the private lane with the adjacent property not having
been built out. The applicant is the daughter-in-law of the developer. He clarified that the
Planning Commission may approve up to 12 trips per day if the request is not childcare
related.

The applicant, Whitney Craig, stated that she would like to work from home part-time along
with a part-time employee. The two will only overlap one day per week with a maximum of
10 patrons per day. They do not plan to work early or late in the evening and there will be
no noise ordinance issues. She noted that the property provides adequate parking and the
use is allowed by the Homeowners Association. It was confirmed that the other three lots
are owned by family and close family friends.

Brady Craig gave his address as 11882 South Craig View Lane and stated that the CC&Rs
allow for in-home occupations and small businesses. The lot that has not been developed
is owned by one of Ms. Craig’s clients who is fully aware of the planned salon.

There were no public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Ruston moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-22-2035 “Sweethearts Salon” to be located at 11882 South Craig View Lane with
the following conditions:

       1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.

       2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

       3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health
              Department approvals.

       4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

       5.     No more than 10 customers per day to visit the house for this business.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               7
September 8, 2022


      6.     No more than one non-resident employee shall be employed at this
             business.

      7.     All employee and customer parking will be off-street.

Chair Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

      F.     AMENDED SUBDIVISION – “RIVERWOOD ESTATES AMENDED”
             COMBINING LOTS 9 AND 10 OF RIVERWOOD ESTATES, LOCATED AT
             1652 WEST OAK RIVER COURT. APPLICANT – HARMONIE WHEELER.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff report and stated
that the above item is a request for an amended subdivision “Riverwood Estates” located at
1652 West Oak River Court. During the housing slump of 2008, UDOT widened out
Redwood Road taking half or more off two lots located in this subdivision. A property
rendering was displayed. He noted that the applicant owns the home on Oak Blaze Court
and purchased the adjacent remnant property. She intends to purchase the remaining
UDOT remnant to create an Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”). He explained that in order to
combine the two properties, a subdivision plot is required. The property measures .74-acre
and is located on a private lane. The existing fencing will have to be moved to accommodate
the combination of lots. Staff recommended approval with conditions listed in the Staff
report.

Commissioner Rushton asked if there was anything the Commission can do to support
enabling the applicant to use vinyl fencing as opposed to moving the existing cast cement
fencing. Mr. Prestwich reported that the fencing was an original condition of approval of the
Riverwoods Estates in 2006. It was constructed in 2018 to get the subdivision cleared for
Building Permits.

The applicant, Harmonie Wheeler, reported that she is the property owner and is seeking to
combine the lots. She believed that moving the cast cement wall would create consistency
throughout the neighborhood.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-22-
1007. “Riverwood Estates Amended”, to be located at 1652 West Oak River Court with
the following conditions:

      1.     Address any outstanding Riverton City staff redline comments on the
             plans.

      2.     Lots shall be combined with a Plat recorded with Salt Lake County.

      3.     No access to Redwood Road from the lot.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
September 8, 2022

Commissioner Cannon raised a question regarding the applicant obtaining animal rights with
the purchase of the additional acreage. Mr. Prestwich explained the lot is zoned RR-22 and
lots greater than .50-acre are allowed animal rights. He was not sure whether it was
permitted with the neighborhood CC&Rs.

Commissioner Gilchrist believed the motion should include a limitation on the access from
Redwood Road.

Chair Rushton seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent
of the Commission.

       G.     CONDITIONAL USE- “HOMESTEAD FENCING”, A CONDITIONAL USE
              PERMIT FOR PARALLEL FENCING ALONG A PROPOSED SUBDIVISION
              BOUNDARY AT 12761 SOUTH 3600 WEST. APPLICANT – DAVID
              WEEKLEY HOMES.

Chair Cluff opened the public hearing. Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated
that the above item is a request for a Conditional Use Permit for parallel fencing along a
proposed subdivision located at 12761 South 3600 West. The developer applied for the
subdivision and while under Staff review, an issue was discovered regarding the north
property line shared with an LDS church. A property rendering was displayed. He explained
that the existing fence lies 4.3 feet north of the deed line creating a “fence within a fence”.
The developer has made multiple attempts to reach out to both corporate and local
leadership from the Church to discuss how to further proceed. The Church was not
favorable of a lot line adjustment and prefer the fence to be located on their property to
establish the property line and maintenance responsibilities.

Mr. Prestwich stated that the applicant is proposing a six-foot solid masonry fence along
their property line leaving a four-to-five-foot gap to the Church fencing. The Church will
maintain the space between enabling the developer to move forward with the proposed
project. Staff recommended approval with the conditions listed in the Staff Report.

Commissioner Park asked for clarification should an issue arise within the space.
Mr. Prestwich confirmed that it would become an enforcement issue and the responsibility
of the north property owner. Mr. Carter commented that it will help build a record in
educating the Church in responsibilities moving forward.

Commissioner Cannon asked if it would be essentially landlocking the Church-owned
remnant piece and the best use of the property. Mr. Prestwich reported that the zoning is
unique and was treated by the City Council as a stand-alone property. One of the primary
concerns with getting any type of development of the property focused on traffic counts along
Water Street. Staff discouraged the connection.

Commissioner Gilchrist explained that the Ordinance specifies that approval of parallel
fences requires the new fencing to be constructed entirely on the applicant’s property. The
space between the two fences must be maintained by the applicant. Mr. Carter stated that
there are two parallel fences but they lack the authority to require the Church to take down
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
September 8, 2022

their fence although the applicant has a fencing requirement. The record demonstrates that
the Church is the responsible party and is committed to taking care of it. The applicant
cannot be required by the City to maintain property that it does not own. Boundary by
acquiescence was reviewed. He stated that a general maintenance requirement is on the
Church and Code Enforcement will actively enforce any issues.

Commissioner Park referenced the fence within a fence Ordinance Section 1 and asked if
there is any reason to stipulate in the agreement that the applicant is not required to put
down a weed barrier or provide future perpetual maintenance. Mr. Carter concurred that
that would be beneficial and create clarity and a better record.

A David Weekley Homes representative stated he oversees the land development activities
for the west coast and appreciated the Staff Report. He stated that they are willing to work
with the neighbor to the north and clarified that the fencing was not proposed but was a
requirement by the City. They are willing to offer their assistance with the four-foot area to
reduce future maintenance, if needed, but have been unsuccessful in reaching the property
owner to the north.

There were no public comments. Chair Cluff closed the public hearing.

Commissioner Park moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL of
Application PLZ-22-2036 Conditional Use for Homestead Parallel Fencing with the
following conditions:

       1.     Fencing along the north property line may be installed along the
              applicant’s property line, allowing the existing fence to remain.

       2.     The applicant shall notify the north adjoiner of their intention to install a
              parallel fence and provide the north adjoiner a copy of the Boundary
              Survey showing the location of the existing fence and boundary line.

       3.     The applicant shall not be responsible for the placement of permanent
              weed control measures in the space between the fences.

       4.     The fence shall be wholly on the applicant’s property.

       5.     The applicant and any and all future owners of the property shall not be
              responsible for the maintenance of any space remaining between the two
              fences.

Commissioner Gilchrist asked if there was any concern regarding prescriptive rights
pertaining to the canal. He noted that concrete fencing foundations are generally 18 to 24
inches in diameter and asked if this will be a cause for concern with a future property owner
to the north. Mr. Carter confirmed that any future owner will be faced with the same parallel
fencing issues and maintenance requirements.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                  10
September 8, 2022

Chair Matheson seconded the motion.         The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    NONE.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS – N/A

      A.    NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    MINUTES APPROVAL – AUGUST 11, 2022.

Chair Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Meeting Minutes from
the Planning Commission Meeting held on August 11, 2022, as presented.
Commissioner Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:18 p.m.
