                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            December 14, 2023
Subject:         Adopting amendments to Title 17 “Subdivisions”, Amendments proposed by
                 Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and legislative recommendation item.
In rendering a decision the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on
reasonably debatable evidence. Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council
which has final decision authority for changing the Zoning Ordinance.

Example Motions
   I move the Planning Commission continue the public hearing of the amendment to Title 17
   to the next Planning Commission meeting.

Background

Title 17 of Riverton City Code outlines the process and requirements for submitting, reviewing, and
approving subdivisions within Riverton City.

Most municipalities follow a generally similar process for subdivisions, but each has their own
adaptations and nuances. The 2023 Legislative Session approved two (2) bills altering state code
for Subdivision review and approval, and cities are modifying their ordinances to match state code.

The proposed changes to Title 17 will bring Riverton City Title 17 into compliance with the State
Code and codify many of the practices which the City has already been following. The changes will
impact how subdivisions are reviewed and processed in our city and will change the Commissions
role in subdivision approvals. The most noticeable change will be introducing a 2-step review
process where the Commission approves a concept plan in a public hearing, and final plans are
approved in a streamlined process.

In this meeting staff will present an overview of the current city process and how the process will
change in preparation for reviewing the ordinance changes in our January 2024 PC meetings.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
   1. Riverton City Title 17 (from Nov 30, 2023)




Report by: tjp
12/12/2023
                                              Title 17
                                          SU B DIVISIO N S

Ch a pt er s :
   17.05 Gen er a l Pr ovis ions
   17.10 Su bdivis ion Pr oces sing a n d Appr ova l Pr ocedu r es
   17.15 Gen er a l Subdivis ion Im pr ovem en t R equ ir em en ts
   17.20 Su bdivis ion St a n da r ds
   17.25 St r eet Ligh ting




                                        Ch a pter 17.05
                                    GEN ER AL PR O VISIO N S

Sections:
   17.05.010   Shor t t it le.
   17.05.020   Pu r pose.
   17.05.030   Defin ition s .
   17.05.040   Gen er a l cons ider a t ion s .
   17.05.050   Eviden ce of public w elfa r e.
   17.05.060   Com plia n ce r equ ir ed.
   17.05.070   R evoca tion .
   17.05.080   Pena lt y.
   17.05.090   Appea ls .
   17.05.100   Sever a bilit y.
   17.05.110   B uilding a nd occupa n cy per m it s .
   17.05.120   Su bdivision t ypes .

17.05.010 Sh or t t it le.
This chapter shall be known and may be so cited and pleaded as the subdivision ordinance of
Riverton City, Utah. Riverton City shall hereinafter be referred to as the “city.” [Ord. 15-23 § 1
(Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-A).
Code 1997 § 12-325-005-A.]


17.05.020 Pu r pose.
(1) To promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents of the city.

(2) To promote the efficient and orderly growth of the city.
(3) To provide standards for the physical development of residential subdivision and
construction of improvements thereon, including, but not limited to, the design and installation
of roads, streets, curbs, gutters, drainage systems, water systems, and other public facilities and
utilities; dedication of land and streets; granting easements or rights-of-way and to provide for
the payment of fees and other charges for the authorizing of a subdivision. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh.
A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-B ); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-B ). Code
1997 § 12-325-005-B .]


17.05.030 Defin it ion s . 1
“Applicant” means the owner of land proposed to be subdivided or such owner’s duly
authorized agent. Any agent must have written authorization from the property owner.

“B lock” means the land surrounded by streets and other rights-of-way (other than alleys), or
land designated or shown as a block on any recorded subdivision plat or official map or plat
adopted by the city.

“B ond agreement” means an agreement, on forms approved by the city, wherever a bond is
required by this title to install improvements secured by an escrow agreement with funds on
deposit in an acceptable financial institution, a surety bond issued by a bonding company
licensed to do business in the state of Utah, a cash bond with the city, or other instrument as
approved by the city in an amount corresponding to the city’s estimate of the cost of the public
improvements to be installed.

“B uilding” means a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used or intended to
be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or property.

“B uilding official” means the appointed official responsible for the issuance of building permits
and certificates of occupancy and for inspections of buildings under construction.

“City engineer” means the appointed official responsible for the engineering functions of the
city as described in this title and in the policies and regulations of the city.

Collector Street. See “Streets.”

“Concept plan” means a sketch or concept drawing created prior to the preliminary plat for
subdivisions, to enable the subdivider to demonstrate general compliance with the city’s
ordinances and development regulations and policies. A concept plan is generally prepared for
and is presented to the city’s development review committee as described in this title.




1
    Cr os s-r efer en ce: Definitions, Chapter 18.05 RCC.
“Developer/subdivider” means, as the case may be:

     (a) An applicant for subdivision approval;

     (b) An applicant for a building permit or another issued permit;

     (c) The owner of any right, title or interest in real property for which development or
     subdivision approval is sought.

“Development agreement” means a written contractual agreement between the city and the
developer which sets forth the respective obligations of the city and the developer relative to a
proposed project.

“Development review committee” means that group of persons or officials having subdivision
responsibilities as outlined in this title. The committee includes, but is not limited to,
representatives from the planning, engineering, public works, administration and fire
departments or any other agency or entity that the city deems necessary or appropriate.

“Easement” means authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for a
specified purpose, such as utilities and irrigation ditches, of any designated part of the owner’s
property. An easement may be for use under, on the surface or above the owner’s property.
Generally, unless specified otherwise, permanent structures may not be erected upon any
easement.

“Fee schedule” means the list or appendix of fees adopted periodically by the governing body
that sets forth various fees charged by the city.

“Final plat” means a map of a subdivision prepared for final approval and recordation, that has
been accurately surveyed so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots and other divisions thereof can be
identified, and meeting any other requirements of this title or the Utah Code.

“Flag lot” means a lot that has an irregular shape that results in access provided to the bulk of
the lot by means of a narrow corridor.

“Flood, 10-year” means a flood having a 10 percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.

“Floodplain, 100-year” means that area adjacent to a drainage channel which may be inundated
by a 100-year flood as designated on the most recent Flood Insurance Rate Map published by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.

“General plan” means the comprehensive, long-range strategic plan for the future of the city
and includes elements such as future land uses, transportation, housing, storm drainage,
culinary water, secondary water, economic development, capital facilities plan and
intergovernmental coordination.

“Greenbelt” is similar to a linear park that may or may not serve as an interlinking trailway or
may serve as a buffer to agricultural practices. The greenbelt is generally a public right-of-way
serving as visual and physical break between other land uses.

“Gross density” means a calculation of the number of lots per acre located within the entire
subdivision area.

“Incompatible land uses” means any agricultural, rural residential, or commercial land uses
which abut a residential use; any commercial use that abuts a rural residential use; or any
commercial use that abuts an agricultural use.

“Lot” means a parcel or tract of land within a subdivision and abutting a public street, including
such open spaces as are arranged and designed to be used in connection with the building
according to the zone within which the lot is located.

“Minor subdivision” means a subdivision consisting of two or fewer lots.

“Natural drainage course” means an undulation in the earth where surface water runoff has
etched a channel and directs water into larger watercourses.

“Net density” means the amount of buildable lots that are possible within a subdivision after
the land areas needed for public rights-of-way are removed from the total acreage of the
parcel.

“Parcel of land” means a contiguous quantity of land in the possession of, or owned by, or
recorded as the property of, the same owner.

“Park strip” means the strip of land located within the public right-of-way between the sidewalk
and the curb and gutter.

“Planned unit development” means a development pursuant to the regulations found in RCC
Title 18, Land Use and Development.

“Planning commission” means the Riverton City planning commission.

“Planning department” means the department in the city authorized to oversee the planning
and zoning functions of the city.

“Preliminary plat” means the initial formal plat of a proposed land division or subdivision and
containing the information required by this title.
“Property owner” means the owner in fee simple of real property as shown in the records of the
Salt Lake County recorder’s office and includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean
either a natural person, firm, association, partnership, trust, private corporation, limited liability
company, public or quasi-public corporation, other entity authorized by the state of Utah, or
any combination of the foregoing.

“Public improvements” means streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, water and sewer lines, storm
drains and other similar facilities which are required to be dedicated to the city in connection
with subdivision, conditional uses or site plan approval.

“Public right-of-way” means any road, street, alley, lane, court, place, viaduct, tunnel, culvert or
bridge laid out or erected as such by the public, or dedicated or abandoned to the public, or
made such in any action by the subdivision of real property, and includes the entire area within
the right-of-way.

“Riverton City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual” means the city’s construction standard
specifications and plans regarding the installation of public improvements.

“Secondary water system” means any system designed and intended to provide, transport
and/or store water used for watering of crops, lawns, shrubberies, flowers and other
nonculinary uses.

“Sidewalk” means a passageway for pedestrians, excluding motor vehicles.

Streets. See Chapter 18.05 RCC.

“Subdivider” means a person who:

      (a) Having interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision;
      or

      (b) Directly or indirectly sells, leases, or develops, or advertises for sale, lease or
      development, any interest, lot, parcel, site, unit, or plat in a subdivision; or

      (c) Engages directly, or through an agent, in the business of selling, leasing or developing,
      or offering for sale, lease or development, a subdivision; or

      (d) Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with,
      any of the foregoing.

“Subdivision” means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two
or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land for development either in
installments or on any other plans, terms or conditions. Subdivision includes: (a) the division of
development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds description, lease, map, plat or other
recorded instrument; and (b) divisions of land for all residential and nonresidential purposes.
“Subdivision” does not include parcels that do not meet the minimum area and/or frontage
requirements of the city’s zoning regulations and are solely acquired as additions to existing
lots or parcels. No building permits for any main structures shall be issued by the city on such
“addition” parcels because of their noncompliance with the ordinances of the city.

“Subdivision, nonstandard” means any subdivision that meets the criteria of RCC 17.05.120.

“Trail” means a dedicated path, improved or unimproved, for the passage of pedestrians,
nonmotorized vehicles or equestrian-related uses.

“Utilities” includes culinary and secondary water lines and systems, pressure and gravity
irrigation lines and/or ditches, sanitary sewer lines, storm drain lines, sub-drains, electric,
natural gas facilities, cable television and telephone transmission lines, underground conduits
and junction boxes.

“Zoning ordinance” means the city planning and zoning ordinance as presently adopted and as
amended hereafter by the city council. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); amended during 2011
recodification; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-C); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-
C). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-C.]


17.05.040 Gen er a l con s ider a t ion s.
(1) Riverton City Zoning Map and General Plan. The Riverton City zoning map and general plan
shall guide the use and future development of all land within the corporate boundaries of the
city. The size and design of lots, the nature of utilities, the design and improvements of streets,
the type and intensity of land use, and the provisions for any facilities in any subdivision shall
conform to the land uses shown and the standards established in the general plan, RCC
Title 18, and other applicable ordinances.

(2) Conservation of Natural Features. Trees, native land cover, wetlands, natural watercourses,
and topography shall be preserved where possible. Subdivisions shall be so designed as to
prevent excessive grading and scarring of the landscape in conformance with RCC Title 18. The
design of new subdivisions shall consider, and relate to, existing street widths, alignments and
names.

(3) Community Facilities. Community facilities, such as parks, recreation areas and
transportation facilities, shall be provided in the subdivision in accordance with the general
plan standards, this title, RCC Title 18, and other applicable ordinances. This title and RCC
Title 18 establish procedures for the referral of information on proposed subdivisions to
interested boards, bureaus, and other governmental agencies and utility companies, both
private and public, so that the extension of community facilities and utilities may be
accomplished in an orderly manner, coordinated with the development of this subdivision. In
order to facilitate the acquisition of land areas required to implement this policy, the subdivider
may be required to dedicate, grant easements over or otherwise reserve land for schools,
parks, playgrounds, public right-of-way, utility easements, and other public purposes. [Ord. 15-
23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-D); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-
010-D). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-D.]


17.05.050 Eviden ce of pu blic w elfa r e.
Any proposed subdivision and its ultimate use shall be in the best interest of the public welfare
and the neighborhood concerned; and the subdivider shall present evidence to this effect when
requested to do so by the city. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-
E); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-E). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-E.]


17.05.060 Com plia n ce r equ ir ed.
(1) Sales of Portions of Subdivision Parcels. No person shall sell, exchange, or offer to sell or
exchange any parcel of land which is a part of a subdivision of a larger tract of land, or record
for building purposes in the office of the county recorder any subdivision plat unless the
subdivision has been approved by the city according to the provisions of this title.

(2) All Lots Subject to Ordinances. All lots, plots, or tracts of land located within a subdivision
shall be subject to the provisions of this title and RCC Title 18, regardless of whether or not the
tract is owned by the subdivider or a subsequent purchaser, transferor, or holder of the land.
[Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-
325-010-F); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-F). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-F.]


17.05.070 R evoca t ion .
(1) In the event a subdivision approval is issued in violation of any Riverton City ordinance and
the Riverton City council determines that the revocation of the subdivision approval would not
violate state law, the city council may, by resolution, revoke the subdivision approval.

(2) Within five days after passage of the resolution revoking the subdivision approval, the city
recorder shall send a copy of the resolution to the person or entity that received the approval
at his last known or registered address by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
[Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-G); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A
§ 12-325-010-G). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-G.]


17.05.080 P en a lt y.
(1) Violation of Ordinances. Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent,
employee or otherwise, violating or causing or permitting the violation of any provision or
section or part of this title shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the
city shall pursue legal remedy to ensure compliance with this title, including, but not limited to,
injunctory relief.

(2) Intentional Violations. Such persons, firm or corporation who intentionally violate this title
shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which any
portion of any violation of this title is committed, continued, or permitted by such persons, firm
or corporation, and shall be punishable as herein provided. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); amended
during 2011 recodification; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-H); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A
§ 12-325-010-H). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-H.]


17.05.090 Appea ls.
Appeals may be made to the board of adjustment from any interpretation of this title or any
decision, determination or requirement of the planning commission, planning director, city
engineer or public works director as it relates to any subdivision application hereunder by filing
with the city recorder a notice thereof in writing within 14 days after such a decision,
determination or requirement is made. Such notice shall set forth in detail the action and
grounds upon which the subdivider or other person deems himself or herself aggrieved. The
applicant shall pay an appeal fee as provided in the city’s fee schedule.

The city recorder shall, within 15 days after receipt of a written notice of appeal, schedule the
appeal for hearing before the board of adjustment. Said appeal shall occur within a reasonable
time after the city recorder commences to schedule the appeal, after coordinating an
acceptable date and time with the board of adjustment, the appellant, and a city representative.
Such hearing may be continued by order of the board of adjustment. The appellant shall be
notified of appeal hearing date at least seven days prior to the hearing. After hearing the
appeal, the board of adjustment may affirm, modify or reverse the decision, determination or
requirement appealed, and enter any such orders as are in harmony with the spirit and
purpose of this title and RCC Title 18. The board of adjustment shall notify the appellant in
writing of its ruling. The filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings and actions in furtherance
of the matter appealed, pending a decision of the board of adjustment. The standard of review
on appeal shall not be de novo, but shall be based on a review of the record to determine
whether an appealable interpretation, decision, determination, or requirement is supported by
ordinance and based upon substantial evidence. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1
(Exh. A § 12-325-010-I); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-I). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-I.]


17.05.100 Sever a bilit y.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is for any reason held to be
invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this title. [Ord. 15-
23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-L); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-
L). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-J.]


17.05.110 B u ildin g a n d occu pa ncy per m it s.
(1) It shall be unlawful for any person to receive a building permit for any phase of development
until a plat for that phase is recorded and all improvements required by the city for that phase
except sidewalks and street lighting are completed to Riverton City standards, accepted by
authorized city inspectors, and approved by the city council for a performance/warranty bond
release. Where a bond was not initially required and posted, the city council shall approve the
inspection and acceptance of improvements by authorized city inspectors, following which the
developer shall post a warranty bond of 10 percent of the cost of the improvements, with cost
and bonding method as stipulated by the city engineer.

Certain exceptions to this may be granted by the city council based on seasonal delays to
installation of asphalt. In such situations, additional requirements may be imposed by the
council.

(2) A certificate of occupancy may not be granted until all of the requirements of subsection (1)
of this section have been satisfied and sidewalk and street lighting are installed, inspected, and
accepted by authorized city inspectors.

(3) B uilding permits may be issued for model homes on a case-by-case basis once a plat has
been recorded for that phase with approval of the city engineer, fire marshal, water operations
director, and building official. Final residential occupancy of a model home shall only be
granted once the development has satisfied the conditions in subsections (1) and (2) of this
section. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 9-26-06-1 § 1 (Exh. B); Ord. 4-1-03-1 § 1; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1
(Exh. A § 12-325-010-M); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-M). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-M.]


17.05.120 Su bdivision t ypes.
(1) Designation of Subdivision. Where a subdivision application is accepted as complete, the
planning director shall determine of which type the subdivision is, from one of the following:

      (a) Minor Subdivision. Any subdivision that has three or fewer lots.

      (b) Commercial Subdivision. Any subdivision that is not for the purpose of single-family
      residential lots.

      (c) Single Stage Subdivision. Any subdivision of 20 or fewer lots which is being developed
      as a single phase, and does not meet the requirements of a minor subdivision.

      (d) Amended Plat. Any plat having been previously recorded and applying to change the
      boundaries of one or more lots, change a street or right-of-way, or adding property and
      lots. If property is added to the amended plat, the verbiage “Amending and Extending...”
      shall be added.

      (e) Private Lanes – Subdivision on Private Lane. Any subdivision of land which has primary
      access from a private lane or right-of-way.
     (f) Preliminary Plats. Preliminary plats shall follow the requirements as set forth in
     RCC 17.10.010, including RCC 17.10.010(9), Notification.

     (g) Final Plats. Final plats shall follow the requirements as set forth in RCC 17.10.020(3)
     and (4).

(2) Private Streets and Rights-of-Way.

     (a) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for
     access to all residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases
     where it is impossible or impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision
     standards. In situations where insufficient land access exists for a public street system, a
     conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be approved by the planning
     commission.

     (b) Subdivision for Lots on Private Lanes. Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way
     may be developed in any residential zone where at least two of the following conditions
     exist (subsections (4)(b)(i) or (ii) and (iii) of this section). All subdivisions on private lanes
     shall submit the same materials that are required for standard subdivisions and shall be
     approved via the process for standard subdivisions.

          (i) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to
          construct a public street; or

          (ii) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically
          subdivided with public streets, either now or in the foreseeable future; and

          (iii) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining
          properties as required by the master transportation plan. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A);
          Ord. 4-3-01-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-235-010-N); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-N);
          Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A § 12-325-010-N). Code 1997 § 12-325-005-N.]




                           Cha pt er 17.10
           SU B DIVISIO N PR O CESSIN G AN D APPR O VAL
                           PR O CEDUR ES
Sections:
   17.10.010   Pr elim in a r y pla t .
   17.10.020   Fin a l pla t .
   17.10.030   Im pr ovem en t s a nd dedica t ions .
   17.10.040   R ecor da t ion a nd lim it a t ion s .
  17.10.050    Geogr a phic in for m a tion s ys tem .

17.10.010 Pr elim in a r y pla t .
(1) Preliminary Consultation. Each person who proposes to subdivide land in the jurisdiction of
the city shall prepare a site analysis and a concept plan, and request a consultation with
planning department staff before preparing any plats, charts, or plans, in order to become
familiar with the city subdivision requirements and existing master plans for the territory in
which the proposed subdivision lies, and to discuss the proposed plan of development of the
tract.

(2) Preapplication Conference Submission. Submission for consultation with planning staff shall
include one copy of a concept plan at a scale of no less than one inch equals 50 feet, and one
11-inch by 17-inch reduction of the plan with the following information:

     (a) A site analysis plan showing the following features to within 500 feet of any portion of
     the subject property:

          (i) Significant natural and manmade features;

          (ii) The property boundaries of the proposed subdivision;

          (iii) The names of adjacent property owners;

     (b) A concept plan illustrating the proposed name of the subdivision, a proposed lot and
     street layout, a description of those portions of the property which are included in the
     most recent flood insurance rate maps prepared by FEMA, and the total acreage of the
     entire tract proposed for subdivision; the total number of lots proposed and the
     proposed gross or net density of the subdivision.

(3) Zoning Requirements. B efore the preliminary plat is submitted for processing, the
subdivider shall comply with all zoning ordinances regulations to accommodate intended lot
size and type of development.

(4) Development Review Committee (DRC). B efore submittal of an application, preliminary plats
shall be reviewed by the development review committee. Plats which have not been reviewed
by the development review committee (DRC) shall not be reviewed by the planning commission.

(5) Preliminary Plat Filing. A preliminary plat shall be prepared in conformance with the
standards, rules, and regulations contained herein and shall be submitted to the Riverton City
planning department and any other special service districts which provide service to the area
proposed for development.
(6) Preliminary Plat Application Fee. At the time of filing the preliminary plat, the subdivider
shall pay to the city a nonrefundable fee. The city council shall prescribe by resolution from
time to time the amount of such fee, which shall be for the purpose of defraying expenses
incidental to and in connection with the checking and reviewing of such preliminary subdivision
plats.

(7) Preliminary Plat Requirements. The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale not smaller
than one inch equals 50 feet, and shall be on standard 22-inch by 34-inch (“D” size) paper. The
plat shall include:

     (a) The proposed name of the subdivision and approximate address (there shall be no
     duplication of subdivision names within the city and all names shall be approved by the
     city).

     (b) The subdivision location as forming a part of a larger tract or parcel. Where the plat
     submitted includes only a portion of a larger tract or only a part of a parcel or parcels of
     the same owner, a schematic plan of a prospective major street system shall be prepared
     showing logical connections to and through the larger parcel in conformance with the
     adopted transportation master plan. The preliminary plat shall show all adjoining
     property owners.

     (c) Sufficient information to accurately locate the property shown on the plat including the
     nearest section corner tie. A copy of the county ownership plat relating to the proposed
     subdivision and a legal description of the parcel must also be submitted.

     (d) The names and addresses of the subdivider(s), the engineer or surveyor of the
     subdivision, and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be subdivided.

     (e) Contours at two-foot intervals to show the topography of the land.

     (f) The boundary lines and total acreage of the tract to be subdivided including total
     acreage proposed for subdivision as well as the boundary lines of adjacent tracts within
     200 feet of any part thereof, showing ownership and property monuments.

     (g) The location, dimensions, and other details of all existing streets and other important
     features such as utility easements, railroad lines, watercourses (including irrigation canals
     and ditches), canal weirs, exceptional topography, bridges and buildings within the tract
     or within 200 feet thereof.

     (h) Existing sanitary sewer lines, storm drains, water supply mains, secondary water lines,
     and surface water control structures within the tract or within 200 feet thereof. A
     commitment in writing may be required from the appropriate agencies that utility
     services will be available for the project.
(i) The locations, widths, and other dimensions of proposed public streets, private streets,
alleys, utility easements, parks, other open spaces and lots, with proper labeling of spaces
dedicated to the public or designated for private use.

(j) The flood hazard boundary per the Federal Flood Insurance Administration and as
approved by the Salt Lake County Flood Control District, when applicable.

(k) When any new development creates an incompatible land use there shall be a fenced
and/or landscaped area along the entire lot(s) adjacent to the incompatible use created by
the new development compliant with RCC 18.155.080.

(l) North arrow, scale, date, name of project, and sheet number shown on each sheet of
the plans (i.e., one of five sheets).

(m) A tentative plan for providing street lighting in the subdivision.

(n) A review copy of proposed protective covenants.

(o) Compliance with existing zoning and conformance with the city’s general plan
including the transportation and future land use elements.

(p) A preliminary storm drainage study and plan by which the subdivider proposes to
handle stormwater drainage.

(q) The proposed layout, dimension and numbering of all lots, including a surveyor’s
certificate indicating compliance of all lots with zoning requirements.

(r) Fencing as required along appropriate subdivision boundaries, including where
adjacent to incompatible uses or canal easements.

(s) The proposed methods of providing all secondary water systems relating to the
properties, including a full consideration of all runoff water conditions and any adjacent
canal weirs that will need access provided.

(t) Traffic analyses and studies as required.

(u) Plan showing any required landscaping and/or park strip tree planting, including an
irrigation plan for all publicly maintained facilities or areas.

(v) Special attention for entries from an arterial into the proposed subdivision shall consist
of landscaping and/or formal entry signs or some form of demarcation as to the entry of
that subdivision.

(w) Repealed by Ord. 15-23.
     (x) Copies of any agreements with adjacent property owners relevant to the proposed
     subdivision, including disposition of all ditches, weirs, waterways, etc., that are on or
     directly adjacent to the proposed project.

     (y) Evidence of how the subdivision provides linkages and/or connections to surrounding
     neighborhoods for vehicles and pedestrians, including, but not limited to, the use of stub
     streets, trails, pedestrian walkways or other paths.

     (z) A soil report, based upon adequate test borings and excavations, shall be required
     prior to preliminary approval of any subdivision plat.

     (aa) Satisfactory evidence that all utilities and services will be available for the subdivision
     and the utilities and easements therefor have been reviewed by the utility companies.

     (bb) The subdivider shall comply with all other applicable federal, state, and local laws and
     regulations and shall provide evidence of such compliance if requested by the city.

(8) Complete Preliminary Plat. A preliminary plat application shall not be deemed complete until
all submittals are accepted by the planning department and the planning director together with
the city engineer have agreed that the application is complete. At such point, the city staff shall
have four weeks to complete the initial review and redline the drawings to ensure evidence
compliance with city ordinances and specifications.

(9) Notification. Once all redlines have been corrected, the planning department shall mail to all
owners of property located within 300 feet of the boundary of the proposed subdivision a
written notice of the time, date, and place where the planning commission will review and
consider the subdivision proposal. The subdivider shall have the sole responsibility to provide
mailing information to the planning department for each and all property owners within 300
feet for mailing the required notice. The written notice shall also advise the property owner that
he/she has the right to be present and to comment on the proposed subdivision.

(10) Preliminary Plat Approval. The preliminary plat shall be reviewed during a public hearing by
the planning commission and shall approve; approve with conditions; or deny the plat based on
the regulations found within this section within 45 days after its presentation to the
commission. If modified, the planning commission shall take action within 45 days of the
presentation of the latest modification. If approved, the city shall provide written approval with
whatever conditions are attached. If the preliminary plat is not approved, the planning
commission shall indicate its disapproval in writing and reasons therefor by a similarly signed
copy. Upon the planning commission’s action, the subdivider is authorized to proceed with the
preparation of the final plat.

(11) Time Limitation. Approval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission shall be
effective for a maximum period of one year after approval unless upon application of the
subdivider the planning commission grants an extension. If the final plat has not been
submitted within one year, or within the approved extension period (a maximum of six
months), the preliminary plan must again be submitted to the planning commission for
reconsideration. However, preliminary approval of a large tract shall not be voided; provided,
that the final plat of the first phase is submitted for final approval within the one-year period
unless changes in the original preliminary plat are required to accommodate changes in
planning objectives advocated by the city. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 15-02 § 1 (Exh. A);
amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code
1997 § 12-325-020-A.]


17.10.020 Fin a l pla t .
(1) Final Plat Application Fee. At the time of submitting the final plats, the subdivider shall pay to
the city a nonrefundable fee. The city council shall prescribe, by resolution, from time to time,
the amount of such fee, which shall be for the purpose of defraying expenses incidental to
checking and reviewing the plat and engineering inspections of the future subdivision.

(2) Final Approval. After compliance with the provisions for preliminary plat approval, the
subdivider shall submit all required application materials, including four full-size copies of the
proposed final plat for review by staff.

(3) Submittal Process for Final Approvals.

      (a) The subdivider shall provide in addition to all required application material four copies
      of a complete set of profiles, construction and design data of all streets, existing and
      proposed, and all utilities to be constructed within the subdivision, and furnish such
      information to the city with the final plat for review. These shall be prepared by a
      registered engineer not employed by the city. All construction drawings and details shall
      conform to the city’s adopted regulations and the Riverton City Standard Specifications
      and Plans Manual. All construction drawings and details must be approved by the city
      engineer before his signature is entered on the final plat. The city engineer shall
      determine the amount of bond or other security to assure construction of improvements.

      (b) Unless otherwise indicated during preliminary plat approval, after approval and
      recommendation by the city staff, the final plat shall be submitted to the planning
      commission for consideration at a regularly scheduled public meeting. Upon their vote of
      approval the commission shall authorize the mayor to sign the final plat which is to be
      attested by the city recorder.

(4) Final Plat Requirements. The final plat shall be prepared on Salt Lake County recorder’s
office approved medium and specifications. The plat shall be so drawn that the top of the sheet
faces either north or west, whichever accommodates the drawing. The plat shall include the
following information:
    (a) A subdivision name, approved by the county recorder, and the general location of the
    subdivision in bold letters.

    (b) Repealed by Ord. 15-23.

    (c) A north arrow, scale of the drawing, and the date.

    (d) Accurately drawn bearings and dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision.
    These lines should be slightly heavier than street and lot lines.

    (e) The widths, lengths, bearings, and curve data on centerlines of proposed streets, alleys
    and easements.

    (f) The boundaries bearing the dimensions of all portions within the subdivision as
    intended to be dedicated to the use of the subdivision as intended to be dedicated to the
    use of the public.

    (g) The lines, dimensions, bearings, and numbers of all lots, blocks and parts reserved for
    any reason within the subdivision.

    (h) Lot Numbers. All lots are to be numbered consecutively as approved by the city.

    (i) The developer shall provide an address number to each residential structure as
    approved by Salt Lake County. Addresses may not end in zeros. The subdivider may
    provide names for streets, but such names shall be cleared through the Salt Lake County
    auditor’s office by the subdivider and approved by the city.

    (j) Repealed by Ord. 15-23.

    (k) Parcels of land to be dedicated as public parks or to be permanently reserved for
    private common open space shall also be titled “public park” or “private common open
    space,” whichever is applicable.

    (l) The plat shall be drawn utilizing the Riverton City standard plat template for all
    subdivision plats.

    (m) At the time of submission for approval by the city, the final plat shall bear notation by
    all outside agencies from which a signature is required, and shall remain in the city’s
    possession until recorded. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); amended during 2011 recodification;
    Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-020-B .]


17.10.030 Im pr ovem en t s a n d dedica t ion s .
(1) Requirements B efore Recordation. The improvements required by this title shall be
constructed, installed and maintained by the subdivider until accepted by the municipality prior
to recording the final plat in the office of the county recorder, unless the construction,
installation, and maintenance is guaranteed in the manner provided in this title. Improvements
shall not be installed or constructed until their design and specifications have been approved
by the city.

(2) Guarantee of Improvements. In lieu of the actual completion and acceptance by the city
council of the improvements required by this title, the subdivider shall guarantee the
installation and construction of the required improvements within one year from the date of
recordation of the final plat by one or more of the following methods:

     (a) B onds. In order to ensure that the development will be constructed to completion in
     an acceptable manner, the applicant (owner) shall enter into a bond agreement to
     guarantee construction of dedicated improvements. Said bond agreement shall include
     either an escrow deposit, letter of credit, or surety bond issued by a bonding company
     licensed to do business in the state of Utah, which posts or deposits a financial guarantee
     with the city in an amount equal to 100 percent of the costs to construct dedicated
     improvements, as estimated by the city engineer. All financial instruments offered to the
     city to ensure the construction of public improvements shall be approved as to legal form
     by the city attorney. The agreement and escrow deposit shall assure timely construction
     and installation of all required public improvements. Developer may not seek release of
     individual public improvements from coverage under the bond agreement before all
     public improvements are ready to be dedicated. The developer may request partial bond
     releases of whole categories of improvements within the bond. Ninety percent of the
     entire bond may be released when 100 percent of the site is complete, inspected,
     accepted by the city and approved by the city council. The remaining 10 percent will be
     held to insure that the improvements shall be maintained in a state of good repair for a
     period of 12 months from the date of completion and acceptance by the city inspector for
     all improvements bonded. The final release must receive approval by the city council.

     (b) Inadequate B ond. If the bond proceeds are inadequate to pay for the cost of the
     completion of the improvements according to the city’s standard of specifications for
     whatever reason, including previous reductions, the subdivider shall be responsible for
     the deficiency and no further building permits shall be issued in the subdivision until the
     improvements are completed or, with the city council’s approval, a new, satisfactory bond
     has been executed and delivered to the city or other satisfactory arrangements have been
     made to insure completion of the remaining improvements.

     (c) Electronic Version of As-Constructed Drawings. Prior to acceptance of the subdivision,
     as-constructed drawings shall be turned in to the city engineer in both an electronic
     format which is acceptable to the city engineer and in 22-inch by 34-inch drawings.

(3) Acceptance of Dedicated Streets and Improvements. The dedication of the streets and other
improvements required by this title shall be deemed an offer by the subdivider which shall be
kept open for at least two years and may not be withdrawn during that time. The city shall
accept the offer of dedication only if it finds that the subdivider has constructed, installed and
maintained the improvements required by Riverton City Standard Specifications and Plans
Manual and the improvements comply with the minimum requirements of Riverton City
Standard Specifications and Plans Manual at the time of acceptance. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A);
amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 07-13 § 1; Ord. 9-26-06-1 § 1 (Exh. C); Ord. 8-17-99-1
§ 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-020-C.]


17.10.040 R ecor da t ion a n d lim it a t ion s .
(1) Responsibility for Recordation of Plat. When finally approved, the city recorder shall be
responsible for recording subdivision plats. The subdivider shall pay for all recording fees at the
time of recordation. No final plats shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder, and no
lots included in such final plat shall be sold or exchanged, unless and until the plat is properly
approved, signed, and accepted by the city.

(2) Changes on Plats without Approval. It shall be unlawful for any person to change the lines,
drawings, lot sizes or shapes, or any other provision of a plat after it has received approval by
any person whose approval is required. Any plat that is changed in violation of this subsection
is void and the subdivider may, upon conviction thereof, be punished to the extent of the law
for violation of a misdemeanor. In addition, the city may compel the person recording the plat
to withdraw the plat from the county recorder’s office or to file a notice, or the city may itself
file a notice that the recordation of the plat is void. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1
(Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-020-D.]


17.10.050 Geogr a ph ic in for m a t ion sys t em .
(1) Purpose. The requirements contained herein relate to the submission of data to the city for
further development of the city’s geographic information system, in order to facilitate the
planning and management of the city.

(2) Submission Requirements. At the time of the applicant’s 90 percent bond release, the
applicant shall provide as-built drawings in formats described in subsection (4) of this section. If
the applicant for the bond release is not the original applicant of record for a project, the
applicant for the bond release shall still bear responsibility for submission of GIS data to the city
as described herein. These drawings shall include the following:

      (a) Roadway system (stop signs, stop lights, street signs, street lights, speed limit signs,
      centerlines, curb and gutter, sidewalks).

      (b) Culinary water system (fire hydrants, water meters).

      (c) Secondary water system (secondary water stop and wastes).
     (d) Lots (closed boundary, lot number, lot size, address).

     (e) Dedicated land (parks, trails).

     (f) Landscape (trees).

(3) The city reserves the right to request further information as directed by the city engineer.

(4) Data Formats. Electronic data formats of data required by this section shall be submitted in
a format acceptable to the city engineer.

(5) Construction Projects. Construction projects extending into the public right-of-way, where
underground utilities could be identified, shall be required to submit geographic data on the
utility or item in the aforementioned formats. The city reserves the right to request further
information as directed by the city engineer.

(6) Exemptions. Single-lot residential projects or applications that are not installing new or
modifying existing utilities are exempt from GIS submittal requirements. Construction projects
limited to single service laterals are also exempt. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); amended during 2011
recodification; Ord. 5-1-01-1 § 1 (Exh. B ). Code 1997 § 12-325-020-E.]


                      Cha pt er 17.15
GEN ER AL SU B DIVISIO N IM PR O VEM EN T R EQ U IR EM EN TS
Sections:
   17.15.010   Su bdivision la you t .
   17.15.020   Lot s .
   17.15.030   Per m a n en t im pr ovem en ts .
   17.15.040   Repea led.
   17.15.050   Repea led.
   17.15.060   O r der of m a k in g im pr ovem en t s .

17.15.010 Su bdivision la you t .
(1) General Plan. The subdivision layout shall conform to the city’s general plan.

(2) Conservation of Natural Features, Historic Spots, and Landmarks. Where trees, groves,
waterways, scenic points, historic spots or other city assets and landmarks, as determined by
the planning commission, are located within a proposed subdivision, reasonable steps should
be taken to preserve these features.
(3) Railroad Rights-of-Way. Where a railroad right-of-way abuts a subdivision, the plat shall
make provisions for future grade separations whenever the city shall find such a requirement
to be necessary.

(4) Width of B locks. The width of each block shall be sufficient for an ultimate layout of two tiers
of lots therein of a size required by the provisions of this title, unless the general layout of the
vicinity, line of ownership, topographical conditions or locations of arterial streets or freeways
justify or make necessary a variation from this requirement.

(5) Repealed by Ord. 15-23.

(6) Neighborhood Connections. The city will require the use of connecting streets, pedestrian
walkways, trails, and other methods of providing logical connections and/or linkages between
neighborhoods. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A).
Code 1997 § 12-325-030-A.]


17.15.020 Lot s.
(1) Developable and Buildable Lots. All subdivisions should result in the creation of lots which
are developable and capable of being built upon. A subdivision shall not create lots which
would make improvement impracticable due to size, shape, steepness of terrain, location of
watercourses, problems of sewage, driveway grades or other physical conditions.

(2) Frontage and Rear Lots. All lots or parcels created by the subdivision shall have frontage on
a dedicated street, improved to standards hereinafter required, except for flag lots which may
be reduced below the required frontage and only if a flag lot creation does not reduce the
parent parcel below the minimum lot frontage. Land dedicated as public right-of-way shall be
separate and distinct from lots adjoining such right-of-way and not be included in the area of
such lots.

(3) Side Property Lines. Side lines of lots shall be at approximately right angles to the street line,
or radial to the street line.

(4) Corner Lots. Corner lots for residential use should be platted 10 percent larger than interior
lots in order to facilitate conformance with the required street setback for both streets.

(5) City Limit Lines. A lot shall not be divided by a city limit line. Each property boundary line
shall be made a lot line.

(6) Property Remnants. Remnants of property shall not be left in the subdivision which do not
conform to lot requirements or are not required or suitable for common open space, private
utility, public purpose, or other purpose approved by the city.
(7) Double Frontage Lots. Residential lots shall not be allowed to front onto arterial and
collector streets. Where lots double front on an arterial or collector street, as determined by the
master transportation plan, the following requirements shall apply:

     (a) Curb, Gutter and Sidewalk, and Park Strip. Curb, gutter, sidewalk and park strip shall be
     installed the length of the property to Riverton City standards as specified in the Riverton
     City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual, and as approved during the subdivision
     approval process.

     (b) Repealed by Ord. 15-23.

     (c) Collector Street Fencing. Collector street fencing shall be installed along arterial or
     collector streets. Collector street fencing shall be compliant with Chapter 18.155 RCC.
     [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 15-02 § 1 (Exh. A); amended during 2011 recodification; Ord.
     8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-030-B .]


17.15.030 P er m a n en t im pr ovem en t s.
The subdivider of any land located in or platted as a subdivision shall, at his own expense,
install the following improvements in compliance with preliminary and/or final plat approval
and the specifications contained in the Riverton City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual:

(1) Water Systems.

     (a) No subdivision shall be approved or allowed that does not connect onto an approved
     public water system with adequate capacity and pressure to supply the water needs of
     the proposed subdivision. The city shall determine whether the water system is adequate
     in both capacity and pressure. If the water system is not adequate, the subdivider shall be
     required to improve the water system at his own cost to bring the water system up to an
     adequate level of capacity and pressure. The subdivider shall also install through the
     utility easement, at his own expense, all off-site water pipelines, equipment, and pump
     stations necessary to connect with and make available the existing water supply
     distribution system of the city. Service lines shall not be placed in driveway approaches.
     Stop and waste valves shall be in private property and shall not be placed in park strips.
     The bonding provisions of RCC 17.10.030 shall apply to this section.

     (b) The subdivider shall install water lines to make the supply of water available to each lot
     within the subdivision, including laterals to the utility easement of each lot. The location
     and size of water mains shall be approved by the city engineer. All water lines must be
     extended across the entire frontage of all existing streets and to the boundary of the
     subdivision on all existing or proposed city streets.

     (c) Existing mains must be relocated if in conflict with proposed subdivision.
     (d) The subdivider shall pay to the city a per acre charge for the development of off-site
     capital storm drainage facilities as required by Chapter 18.205 RCC, Impact Fees.

(2) Secondary Water Shares. The developer shall dedicate to the city secondary water shares in
the amount of three acre-feet per developed acre, and from a source which passes within the
same water pressure zone in which the subdivision under development is found. The city
engineer, at his/her discretion, may direct that the subdivider pay a fee to the city in lieu of
dedicated shares. The city engineer’s decision to accept a fee in lieu of dedicated shares shall be
based upon whether the city has already obtained an adequate supply of water shares for the
pressure zone in which the subdivision is found. Fees in lieu of water shares shall be
determined annually by the Riverton City council, and shall be based upon a market analysis of
the cost to acquire shares which can supply a given pressure zone. Once determined, said fees
shall be included in the Riverton City fee schedule. A map and other data describing the
boundaries of each secondary water pressure zone and the capital facilities located within the
same shall be furnished to the developer upon request.

(3) Sewage Disposal.

     (a) The subdivider shall connect to the sanitary sewer and provide adequate lateral lines
     to the property line of each lot. Such sewer connections and subdivision sewer systems
     shall comply with the regulations and specifications of, and shall be approved by, the
     South Valley Sewer District.

     (b) The subdivider shall also install all needed off-site lines to connect with the existing
     sewer system, furnished by the South Valley Sewer District. Such sewer connections, lines
     and subdivision sewer systems shall comply with the regulations and specifications of the
     South Valley Sewer District. Disposal of sewage other than connection to a system
     approved by the South Valley Sewer District shall not be allowed.

(4) Stormwater.

     (a) The subdivider shall comply with the requirements of the Riverton City storm drain
     master plan, and all applicable Riverton City ordinances and standards regarding storm
     water management.

     (b) Subdividers shall be required to provide on-site detention as required by the Riverton
     City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual and as approved by the city engineer. In
     conditions where unusual topography or other exceptional conditions exist, variations
     and exceptions from this subsection may be made by the city after the recommendation
     of the city engineer; provided, that such variations and exceptions may be granted
     without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this subsection.

(5) Street Grading and Surfacing. All public streets shall be graded and surfaced in accordance
with the Riverton City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual.
(6) Curbs, Gutters, and Sidewalk. Concrete curbs and gutters shall be installed by the subdivider
on existing and proposed streets in accordance with all the appropriate specifications adopted
by the city council. This subsection applies to all subdivisions.

(7) Concrete sidewalks shall be constructed by the subdivider to the specifications adopted by
the city council and as required by the Riverton City Standard Specifications and Plans Manual.
Sidewalks shall be in compliance with the transportation master plan.

(8) Driveway Approaches. For single-family homes, approaches shall be a minimum of 18 feet in
width, and the maximum width shall be 40 percent of the lot frontage, as measured at property
line. On corner lots, that measurement shall be to the start of the radius at the corner. Where a
driveway exceeds 35 feet in width, a second driveway shall not be allowed on that frontage.
Driveways shall be constructed of concrete or comparable hard surface, as approved by the
building official, from a roadway up to the garage or approved parking area. Driveway approach
width shall be measured at the face of curb or at the edge of roadway asphalt if no curb exists.
A maximum of one driveway access shall be permitted per lot unless the following conditions
apply:

     (a) The second driveway is more than 25 feet from the main driveway; and

     (b) The second drive does not access an arterial or collector street, unless approved by
     the city engineer.

(9) Park Strips. All public rights-of-way shall have a park strip of a minimum of five feet wide.
Tree plantings shall be in compliance with Riverton’s approved street tree master plan.

(10) Irrigation Water. All gravity flow ditches through which water will continue to flow within or
adjoining a subdivision after its completion, whether to serve as irrigation water and/or tail
water to or from any adjacent property, shall be piped and shall be approved by the city
engineer. Irrigation ditches which do not carry irrigation water and/or waste flow may be
abandoned. A letter of approval from the ditch company must be submitted to the city for ditch
modifications or abandonment.

(11) Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be installed as required. Such fire hydrants shall be of the
type, size, and number as required by Riverton City, and installed in such locations as approved
by the city engineer. A fire hydrant shall be placed at the end of every cul-de-sac.

(12) Street Signs. The subdivider shall furnish and install all necessary street marker and traffic
control signs as defined by Riverton City standards and specifications and approved by the city
engineer.

(13) Fencing. Perimeter fencing compliant with RCC 18.155.090 shall be installed. In addition,
temporary construction fencing shall be installed along boundaries or where required to
contain blowing refuse prior to the start of building construction as recommended by the city
engineer. Upon installation and approval of the permanent fence by the city, individual
property owners shall assume full responsibility for maintenance of fences or portions of
fences constructed upon their property and shall hold the city harmless for any and all defects
of workmanship, maintenance, repair, and liabilities of any nature arising from the construction
or intended use of said fences. In situations where a temporary construction fence and a
nonclimbable permanent fence coincide, the nonclimbable permanent fence shall take the
place of the temporary construction fence and shall be constructed prior to the beginning of
home construction within the subdivision. Where necessary, collector and arterial street fencing
shall also be installed as per RCC 18.155.150(2).

(14) Staking of Lots. Survey stakes shall be placed at both front and back lot corners to
completely identify the lot boundaries on site. B ack lot corners shall be marked with a rod
driven into the ground, and front lot corners shall be identified with permanent plugs in the
back of the curb. All lot corners must be in place prior to the issuance of building permits and
after the completion of all subdivision improvements. It shall be the responsibility of the lot
owner to ensure that all lot corners are in place prior to the final inspection of the house.

(15) Repealed by Ord. 15-23.

(16) Road Improvements. All subdividers regulated under this section shall install right-of-way
improvements which comply with the Riverton City Standards and Specifications Manual and as
approved by the city, along any Riverton City, county or state public street leading to or
connecting with the subdivision.

(17) Repealed by Ord. 15-23.

(18) Utilities. All utility lines shall be underground in designated easements. No pipe, conduit,
cable, water lines, gas, sewage, drainage, steam, electricity or any other energy or service shall
be installed or maintained upon any lot (outside of any building) above the surface of the
ground except for hoses, movable pipes used for irrigation or other purpose during
construction. Existing overhead power lines in minor subdivisions or three or fewer lots may be
maintained provided they do not obstruct any proposed right-of-way.

     (a) Transformers shall be grouped with other utility meters where possible and screened
     with vegetation or other appropriate method.

     (b) Transformers and high voltage power lines shall not be placed under the footprint of
     any building.

     (c) Each contractor and owner/developer shall be responsible to know the whereabouts of
     all underground utilities. Protection of such utilities shall also be their responsibility.

     (d) Prior to construction, contact must be made with B lue Stakes to identify underground
     utility lines. [Ord. 20-26 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 18-13 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord.
      15-02 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 12-17 § 1; amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1
      (Exh. A); Ord. 6-2-98-1K § 1; Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-030-C.]


17.15.040 Lot s n ot fu lly im pr oved.
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-
3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 10-7-97-2 § 1. Code 1997 § 12-325-030-D.]


17.15.050 Em er gen cy r epa ir s.
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Amended during 2011 recodification; Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-
3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-030-E.]


17.15.060 O r der of m a k in g im pr ovem en t s.
Underground utilities, culinary and secondary water laterals and sewer laterals and fire
hydrants shall be installed prior to surfacing the streets and installing road base. [Ord. 15-23 § 1
(Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-030-F.]


                                     Cha pt er 17.20
                              SU B DIVISIO N STAN DAR DS
Sections:
   17.20.010     Str eets a n d br idges .
   17.20.020     N a t u r a l dr a in a ge a n d ir r iga tion w a t er .
   17.20.030     Pa r k s, s chool s it es, a n d oth er pu blic pla ces .
   17.20.040     Repea led.

17.20.010 St r eet s a n d br idges.
(1) Relation to Adjoining Street System. The subdivider shall locate streets within the subdivision
so that the streets will connect with existing streets. If the adjoining land is zoned for residential
use, streets shall be located so that the adjacent land may be most efficiently subdivided.

(2) Standards.

      (a) Major and collector streets shall conform to the location and width designated on the
      transportation element of the general plan and the official map accompanying the
      element wherever a subdivision falls in an area for which such a plan has been adopted.
     (b) The minimum right-of-way width of streets within a subdivision shall be based on the
     transportation master plan, the Riverton City Standards and Specifications Manual, and as
     approved by the planning commission.

     (c) Minor terminal streets (cul-de-sacs) shall not be longer than 1,000 feet from the
     centerline of the adjoining street to the center of the cul-de-sac, or as determined by the
     city. Each cul-de-sac must be terminated by a turnaround of not less than 80 feet in
     diameter. If surface water drains into the turnaround, due to the grade of the street,
     necessary catch basins and drainage systems and easements shall be provided. Where a
     street is designed to remain only temporarily as a dead-end street, an adequate turning
     area shall be provided as follows:

          (i) Where the street dead-ends into a subsequent phase of the same subdivision, a
          temporary paved 80-foot-diameter turnaround and a permanent easement of right-
          of-way on the property shall be required.

     (d) Streets along a subdivision boundary shall be constructed to city standards, except
     that with the approval of the planning commission, the right-of-way line may be
     contiguous with the front of sidewalk.

     (e) Partial street right-of-way width shall be considered only if full asphalt and curb and
     gutter improvements are installed on both sides of the road. The city may allow a partial
     right-of-way only when the above-described improvements are installed.

     (f) All proposed streets, whether public or private, shall conform to the Riverton City
     Standard Specifications and Plans Manual. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 15-13 § 1 (Exh. A);
     Ord. 13-11 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997
     § 12-325-040-A.]


17.20.020 N a t u r a l dr a ina ge a n d ir r iga t ion w a t er .
(1) Standards.

     (a) Natural Drainage and Other Easements. Public utility easements shall be provided on
     every lot, including a 10-foot easement on front and rear property lines, and a seven-and-
     one-half-foot easement on side property lines. Drainage easements may be required as
     determined by the city. Where natural drainage channels or wetlands controlled by the
     State Engineer and/or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers cross a subdivision, the
     subdivider must obtain the necessary permits to modify such drainage facilities from the
     appropriate agencies.

     (b) Irrigation Water. No gravity flow open irrigation ditches shall be permitted within the
     boundary of a subdivision or minor subdivision. All necessary irrigation ditches, whether
     used for the purpose of transporting irrigation or waste flow water, must be maintained
      within a subdivision or minor subdivision, and must be replaced with a pipe culvert. The
      developer of a subdivision must provide for the rights of all irrigation users, both
      upstream and downstream of the proposed development. Notification of and
      coordination with downstream water users in the area of the subdivision shall be the
      responsibility of the developer. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-
      3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-040-B .]


17.20.030 Pa r k s, sch ool sit es, a n d ot h er pu blic pla ces.
(1) Standards. In subdividing property, the planning commission shall give consideration to
suitable sites for schools, parks, playgrounds, greenbelts, trails and other areas for similar
public use as recommended by the city’s adopted general plan. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 8-
17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-325-040-C.]


17.20.040 Pla n n ed developm en t s – Specia l pr ovision s.
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Ord. 8-17-99-1 § 1 (Exh. A); Ord. 2-3-98-1 § 1 (Exh. A). Code 1997 § 12-
325-040-D.]




                                      Cha pt er 17.25
                                    STR EET LIGH TIN G
Sections:
   17.25.010    Str eet ligh t in g.
   17.25.020    Su bdivision r equ ir em en ts .
   17.25.030    –
   17.25.080    Repealed.

17.25.010 St r eet ligh t in g.
This chapter defines the general requirements for street lighting improvements to be built by
the subdivider. All fixtures and installation procedures shall conform to IES Lighting Handbook,
Section 14, Roadway Lighting, and the American National Standard Practice for Roadway
Lighting, ANSI/IES RP-8 and the current edition of the National Electrical Code (NEC). [Ord. 15-23
§ 1 (Exh. A); Code 1997 § 12-400-005.]


17.25.020 Su bdivision r equ ir em en t s.
All subdivisions are required to install and dedicate to the city a residential street lighting
system according to city-approved standards and specifications. [Ord. 15-23 § 1 (Exh. A);
amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 12-400-010.]
17.25.030 R esiden t ia l st a n da r d (5,600 lu m en s /150-foot r igh t -of-
w a y).
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 12-400-015.]


17.25.040 M in or collect or st a n da r d (9,500 lu m en s/60-foot
r igh t -of-w a y).
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 12-400-020.]


17.25.050 M a jor collect or st a n da r d (16,000 lu m en s/80-foot
r igh t -of-w a y).
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 12-400-025.]


17.25.060 M a jor a r t er ia l st a n da r d (27,500 lu m en s/106-foot
r igh t -of-w a y).
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Amended during 2011 recodification. Code 1997 § 12-400-030.]


17.25.070 St a n da r ds for a ll ligh t s.
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Code 1997 § 12-400-035.]


17.25.080 Addit ion a l specifica t ion s.
Repealed by Ord. 15-23. [Code 1997 § 12-400-040.]
