                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                 AUGUST 14, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Gary Cannon                                      Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Monique Beck                                     Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Evan Matheson
Darren Park
Chris Knudsen, Alternate

1.            CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the meeting to order at 6:30 PM.

Commissioner Knudsen led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “STRONGWALL, LLC”, PLZ-25-2033, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT TO HAVE A HOME OFFICE LOCATED AT
              2659 WEST 11780 SOUTH, INCLUDING TWO WORK TRUCKS TO BE
              STORED IN THE SIDE YARD BEHIND THE FENCE. APPLICANT - JEFF
              AUSTIN.

Ms. Halversen, planner, presented the Staff Report and stated indicated that the application
was for a home office for Strongwall, LLC, which is a footings and foundations company.
The subject property is 0.27 acres in size and is zoned R-4, as are the surrounding
properties. It is located north of 11800 South in the Midas Crossing Subdivision. The house
is a rambler with a basement and an attached three-car garage.

In addition to the home office, the applicant requested approval to store two work vehicles
behind a screened gate. No customers, deliveries, or employees will visit the home, but the
applicant’s two sons live in the home and work in the business. A Conditional Use Permit
(“CUP”) was required because there will be business vehicles on the property. The applicant
drives one vehicle and his sons drive the second. They will be stored behind a fence and
gate as required by City Code.

Photographs of the subject property and work vehicles were displayed as well as the Site
Plan indicating that the office will be on the left side of the house and occupy less than 25%
of the main floor. The business rents commercial space in West Jordan, where all
employees work and all equipment is stored. Staff determined that the work vehicles will be
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
August 14, 2025


appropriately screened in compliance with Riverton City Code §18.190.060 and
recommended approval of the CUP.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject property and posted
on the City’s website. One comment was received in support of the request. Three phone
calls were received from members of the Midas Crossing Homeowners Association (“HOA”)
who expressed concerns about increased traffic and maintaining the residential appearance
of the neighborhood. After Ms. Halversen explained the details of the application, the
citizens were no longer opposed to the request.

Commissioner Cluff asked if it was fair to require a CUP for the work vehicles when
employees who park company vehicles at their homes are not subject to that requirement.
Ms. Halversen clarified that the vehicles are one-ton trucks, and as such Staff concluded
that the Planning Commission should review the application. Chair Park agreed that the
requirement may seem unfair but noted that it had been in City Code for approximately 15
years and the City Council had not chosen to change it.

Commissioner Cannon stated that many home businesses do not apply for a business
license, and this business had chosen to follow the law. Chair Park added that the City
Council eliminated business licensing fees in order to encourage business in the City. The
applicant now understands the rules and would not need to come back before the Planning
Commission when their business license is renewed in the future.

The applicant, Jeff Austin, stated that the business has been in operation for 15 years and
was recently relocated from Murray. All trailers and forms are stored on a lot in West Jordan,
and he handles administrative tasks at his home office. The flatbed work trucks will be
parked behind the fence, and there will be no employees or deliveries at his home. In
response to a question raised by Chair Park, Mr. Austin stated that the HOA had not
expressed any concern about the vehicles, and he did not anticipate any problems with
abiding by the City’s conditions of approval.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, Mr. Austin clarified that the
vehicles were in the driveway at the time the photograph was taken because he was moving
his mother’s recreational vehicle (“RV”) into his backyard.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
2033, “Strongwall LLC”, at 2659 West 11780 South, subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the City
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              3
August 14, 2025


             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
             Codes.

      2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
             agency approvals.

      4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and
             applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
             Occupation Ordinance, and with this approval.

      5.     No business activity may take place outside the home before 7:00 a.m.
             or after 7:00 p.m.

      6.     Applicant is permitted to park two work trucks behind a side-yard fence.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      B.     “SNUGGLE BUG”, PLZ-25-2035, AN APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL
             USE PERMIT FOR A HOME DAYCARE TO BE LOCATED AT 3568 WEST
             NEW PRIVATE DRIVE. APPLICANT - KYLIE KENNEDY.

Ms. Halversen presented the Staff Report and indicated that the proposed home daycare
will be located at 3568 West New Private Drive. The Planning Commission previously
approved a home daycare at the house next door, and City Code only allows one daycare
within a certain number of feet. However, that applicant reported that she did not follow
through with the planned daycare, and her home was now on the market. The subject
property is 0.45 acres and located in the Butler Meadows subdivision in the northwest
section of the City, which is zoned R-2. Access to the home is from a private drive on 3600
West that serves three lots. The home is rented, and written permission from the property
owner was included with the application.

The applicant, Kylie Kennedy, requested a CUP for a home daycare with a limit of 12
children, including her own children and one employee. The daycare will operate Monday
through Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Pick-ups and drop-offs will be staggered to
reduce the traffic impact on the neighborhood. Site photographs and the Site and Parking
Plans were displayed. The daycare will be on the main floor of the home, and the property
has a fenced backyard for outdoor play. Ample off-street parking is available, and most
children will arrive in one to three vehicles at different times of the day.

Ms. Halversen reported that the applicant was working with the State to register as a
licensed family child care, which is the appropriate license for a daycare that serves 12
children. Child group activities have special allowances in the City Home Occupation
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
August 14, 2025


Ordinance. More vehicle trips are allowed than for typical Home Occupations, and up to 12
children and 24 vehicle trips can be approved by the Planning Commission.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject property and posted
on the City website. No comments were received.

Chair Park asked if approval of the CUP would require revocation of the permit issued for
the neighboring property. Ms. Halversen clarified that a CUP is only valid for the applicant
named on the application, so the permit is no longer valid. Chair Park stated that at the time
the previous CUP application was considered, concerns were expressed about vehicles
stopping on 3600 West and impeding traffic. In response to his question, Ms. Halversen
confirmed that the use was also approved for 24 vehicle trips per day and up to 12 children,
and they were required to use the private driveway for drop-offs and pick-ups.

Ms. Kennedy stated that her business will be an in-home daycare. She currently cares for
four children from one family in addition to her own child. The daycare was previously owned
by her sister. With regard to concerns about traffic on 3600 West, hers is one of the first
homes on the street and she has a large driveway that parents park on for pick-ups and
drop-offs.

In response to questions from Commissioner Cannon, Ms. Kennedy stated that no other
businesses operate at the address but more than one family lives in the home.

Commissioner Knudsen asked about ownership of the daycare. Ms. Kennedy clarified that
her sister owned a daycare that she worked in but it was not associated with the neighbor’s
daycare. Her sister moved and Ms. Kennedy is now opening Snuggle Bug Daycare in her
home.

Commissioner Cannon stated that it was a unique situation in that Ms. Kennedy lives in an
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) in the home and asked if that presented any barriers to
approval. Staff replied that approval is for the specific applicant at the address, and the
applicant has permission from the owner.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Ms. Kennedy stated that her family rents the
ADU, and she also rents the space that will be used for the daycare. The property owner,
Marie Evans, also lives in the home.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, explained that if a family member moves into a home, it is not
considered an ADU. However, if the basement is closed off and the family member must
use an exterior door to access the space, that is considered an ADU.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-2035,
“Snuggle Bug Daycare,” at 3568 West New Private Drive, subject to the following:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 5
August 14, 2025



Conditions:

       1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the City
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.

       2.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

       3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health
              Department approvals.

       4.     Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance, and with this approval.

       5.     Applicant may have one non-resident employee.

       6.     The Home Occupation may have up to 12 children per day.

       7.     The Home Occupation may have up to 24 vehicle trips per day (12
              vehicles) by customers/parents.

       8.     Customers shall utilize the driveway for drop-offs and pick-ups.

       9.     Pick-up and drop-off times shall be staggered to avoid congestion.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously with one
abstention. Commissioner Cannon abstained from the vote.

       C.     “DANSIE COVE PRIVATE LANE”, PLZ-25 -2034, AN APPLICATION FOR
              A PRIVATE LANE TO SERVE FIVE LOTS AT APPROXIMATELY 3112
              WEST 13400 SOUTH. APPLICANT - ALAN PRINCE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the Planning Commission recently
considered a request to rezone the subject property from RR-22 to R-3, which was
subsequently approved by the City Council. If approved, the application for a private lane
would be followed by Subdivision Plat submittal.

Aerial images and the Site Plan were presented. Mr. Prestwich reported that the property
will be split into five new rectangular lots, with four on the western portion and one at the
rear. The lots will be accessed via a private lane, which meets City and Fire Code and will
end in an approved turnaround. The private lane will be 26 feet wide, which will allow for
parking on one side of the road. The applicant requested a private lane because there is no
room for a public street, and a public street would not connect to other nearby public streets.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
August 14, 2025


A public street will also require substantially more land and the lots would no longer meet
minimum standards. For these reasons, Staff recommended approval.

City Code requires 25 feet of pavement for a five-lot subdivision, and side treatments can
be required at the Planning Commission’s discretion. Mr. Prestwich reported that they were
required for an application submitted approximately four years previously because the
development was expected to have 30 lots at completion and a section of sidewalk was
necessary in the area near 11800 South. Staff did not believe a sidewalk should be required
for this development.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject property and posted
on the City website. No public comments were received.

Chair Park asked if gutter is included in the paved surface calculation. Mr. Prestwich
reported that it is included for certain curb types. The Site Plan indicates a rolled gutter or
mountable curb, so in this case, it is included in the calculation.

Commissioner Cannon reported that he grew up in an area that had many private lanes. He
was thankful that landowners were given the ability to maximize what could be done with
their property, and he believes the City and Planning Department have done a great job of
adapting to residents’ needs. His primary concern with the absence of sidewalks is safety,
but he could not recall any safety issues on private lanes that do not have them.

The applicant, Alan Prince, presented the Site Plan for a similar project he built in Sandy 20
years previously. That project had a 25.5-foot road with high-backed curb, but the Dansie
Cove private lane will have driving surface on the full 26 feet. Neither development had
sidewalks. Mr. Prince indicated that there will be a slight serpentine curve at the end of the
road to accommodate the Rocky Mountain Power pole and Riverton City streetlight at the
corner, which he believes will help slow traffic and make the intersection safer. That curve
was not indicated on the application. The road will be constructed to public standards
regarding road base depth and asphalt.

Chair Park asked if the project would include a fence on the eastern property line between
the existing Dansie property and the new subdivision. Mr. Prince confirmed that fences on
the east and west boundaries will match in color and style.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the change to the road layout was an issue. Mr. Prestwich
reported that Staff approved of the change.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-2034
“Dansie Cove Private Lane”, to be located at 3112 West 13400 South, subject to the
following:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              7
August 14, 2025


Conditions:

      1.      Approval is for a private lane, with up to five (5) lots accessing the private
              lane.

      2.      Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private
              lanes.

      3.      Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the
              requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City
              Standards and Specifications.

      4.      Private lane shall be at least 25 feet wide in paved surface. “No Parking”
              signs shall be installed as required by Fire Code.

      5.      The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the
              standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
              Specifications.

      6.      The private lane shall be named and a private street sign shall be
              installed according to Riverton City Standards.

      7.      The private lane entrance shall meet Riverton City Standards for
              driveways, including but not limited to design, width, number of
              driveways and separation distance between driveways.

      8.      The private lane shall be maintained by the homeowners; no City
              maintenance will be performed on the private lane.

      9.      A written agreement for the shared access and shared maintenance of
              the private lane must be submitted with the subdivision Final Plat.

      10.     No construction on the lane may begin before a Subdivision Plan is
              approved by Riverton City.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      D.      “TRASH ENCLOSURES CODE AMENDMENT”, PLZ-25- 5006, RIVERTON
              CITY IS PROPOSING CHANGES TO THE LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT
              CODE, SECTION 18, RELATED TO COMMERCIAL DUMPSTER
              ENCLOSURES.

Mr. Prestwich reported that new Commercial Design Standards were adopted in April 2025,
but language related to commercial dumpster enclosures was inadvertently removed from
the approved Standards. At the Planning Commission’s discretion, the deleted text could
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
August 14, 2025


be restored or the proposed new text could be added. The proposed text addressed a
Frequently asked Questions (“FAQ”) regarding enclosure height and specified that the
enclosure walls must be a minimum of 12 inches higher than the trash receptacle. It also
allows businesses to use garbage cans instead of dumpsters and enclose them with a vinyl
or wood fence instead of a solid masonry wall subject to approval from the Land Use
Authority.

Chair Park stated that although the deletion was unintentional, it provided the opportunity to
improve upon the old language. He asked how a future tenant that needs a larger dumpster
would be made aware of the enclosure requirements and asked if the standard should be
based on the height of the largest standard commercial dumpster. Mr. Prestwich stated that
Staff is often asked about height requirements but the City has not had issues with a too-
large dumpster on a site. He was hesitant to require all enclosures to be 12 inches taller
than the tallest commercial dumpster because that would be too large for some sites.

Commissioner Cluff asked why language encouraging the consolidation of trash areas was
not carried over from the original text. Mr. Prestwich reported that the proposed text did not
prohibit consolidation. The language was removed because it stated that consolidation was
“encouraged,” not required, which is not enforceable. Commissioner Cluff noted that there
was a typographical error in the last sentence: “encloser” should be “enclosure”.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of amendments to the Riverton City Code Title 18 for Commercial
Dumpster Enclosures, as presented. Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Mr. Prestwich reported that Staff is working to remove duplicate sections of City Code and
consolidate residential zone requirements in tables. They are receiving phone calls from
people using artificial intelligence to find relevant Code sections, and the duplications are
generating errors and causing confusion.

3.     DECISION ITEMS

       A.     “JIM'S FAMILY RESTAURANT”, PLZ-25-8013, AN APPLICATION TO
              AMEND A COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN. APPLICANT - SIFI SIFANTONAKIS.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and reported that Jim’s Family Restaurant was the
first family-style, sit-down restaurant in downtown Riverton. It has been a great addition to
the City. Site photographs and elevations were reviewed. The proposed amendment will
add a roof to the outdoor staging area beside the existing dumpster enclosure so that a
prefabricated cooler can be installed, and a door would then be cut into the outer wall for
access from the kitchen. Three courses of cement block would be added to increase the
height of the enclosure and a slanted roof would be installed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  9
August 14, 2025



Mr. Prestwich reviewed the recommended conditions of approval and noted that any
landscaping changes will require Staff review. The proposal met all City Code requirements
and matches the existing architecture, and Staff recommended approval.

Commissioner Cannon expressed concerns about the use of four different cement block
colors and asked if the applicant could be required to have a uniform color. Mr. Prestwich
clarified that the new blocks will be covered in stucco to match the building. The existing
enclosure was approved in 2010. Commissioner Cannon had no further concerns.

Chair Park stated that the enclosure looks like an afterthought in relation to the building.

In response to a question from Commissioner Matheson, it was confirmed that the area in
front of the dumpster is open, and gates should have been required when it was originally
approved. The Commission discussed the proposed Trash Enclosures Code Amendment
in relation to this application.

Eva Sifantonakis spoke on behalf of the applicant. The restaurant has expanded, and its
walk-in cooler is no longer large enough for its needs. The enclosure area is a perfect place
for the new cooler. In response to a question from Chair Park, she clarified that the cooler
will come in pieces and be built into the structure. It will be accessed from the kitchen.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Ms. Sifantonakis stated that her
family only owns the Riverton restaurant, which is the second-highest-grossing Jim’s Family
Restaurant location. She believes West Valley is the highest-grossing location.

Commissioner Matheson asked if gates could be required on the dumpster enclosure.
Mr. Prestwich stated that a condition of approval could be added to that effect.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich clarified that the previous Code
section that was reviewed with the last item was in place in 2010. Prior to updating the
Design Guidelines, the building was used as an example of City design requirements. He
agreed that the dumpster enclosure did not fit the aesthetics of the building.

Ms. Sifantonakis explained that the open area was originally walled off, and the gates on the
side of the enclosure were used to access the dumpster. However, due to the curbing on
the building that continues north, the truck could no longer access the dumpster through
those gates and the wall was opened. The applicant was not opposed to adding or moving
the gates to fully screen the enclosure.

Commissioner Knudsen agreed that the area should be fully enclosed, either by adding
additional gates or moving the existing gates and blocking off the other side of the enclosure.

Commissioner Cannon suggested that a rolling gate be installed that rolls to the south rather
than one that opens in the middle, as it will last longer.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                      10
August 14, 2025


The Commission agreed that the garbage enclosure needed to be brought back into
compliance with City Code.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ-25-
8013 “Jim’s Family Restaurant”, amending the Site Plan of the existing commercial
building located at 1728 Park Avenue, subject to the following:

Conditions:

      1.      Building materials and color will match the submitted plans as shown.

      2.      Any landscaping changes must be submitted to City Staff for review for
              compliance with existing Code requirements.

      3.      Screening for the dumpster must be brought into compliance with
              existing Code requirements.

Commissioner Knudsen seconded the motion.            The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.      NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.      PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES FROM JULY 10, 2025, MEETING.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of July 10, 2025, as reported. Commissioner Park
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:49 PM.
