                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 22, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-22-2039 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “R&R Grooming,” at
                 12453 S. Huron Road. Applicant- Rachelle Ramos


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2039 “R&R Grooming,” located at 12453
S. Huron Road with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may use 50% of the detached garage and must get a Final
       Inspection from the building department.
    6. The business may have one full time equivalent employee.
    7. Business shall have no more than one dog at a time, and up to eight (8) per day
       (18.190.070).
    8. The Home Occupation shall not disrupt the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by
       allowing excessive dog barking (18.190.060.14). Dogs must be kept inside unless
       accompanied by applicant in the side fenced area.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “R&R Grooming” located at
12453 S. Huron Road in the northwest section of Riverton. The property is located in the
Canyonview neighborhood. The house is about 1,600-sf above grade with a similar basement.
The attached garage is 2-car with about 450-sf with a 3-car driveway in front of it. The garage
has a side entrance opening out into a fenced area.
The applicant is seeking approval for a dog grooming business that will utilize the attached
garage. She anticipates using 50% of the space for this business and will be the only employee.
This item comes to the Planning Commission because the applicant seeks approval to use space
 Report by: LH
in the garage for business use. The Home Occupation Ordinance 18.190.080 (3) makes it a
conditional use for any home occupation that proposes to use garage space (detached or
attached).
The applicant anticipates three (3) customers per day, which she will schedule at different times.
She will park her vehicle on the driveway during business hours and has two more parking
spaces on the driveway that she will utilize for customers. Her business is expected to generate
approximately six (6) trips per day. The business will not require additional storage or excessive
deliveries. She will be making plumbing modifications to the garage which will require a building
permit and inspections.
Applicant’s home is on a small lot in a relatively dense neighborhood. Home Occupation Code
prohibits occupations which disrupt the peace and quiet of the neighborhood. Disruptions can be
minimized by allowing only one dog at a time and requiring applicant to keep dogs inside unless
accompanied by her in the fenced area.



Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval the home occupation with conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.




 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
          2.     Application.
          3.     Site Plan.
          4.     Street View.
          5.     Home Occupation Code References.

 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
         18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
         exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.




18.190.070 Qualifications.
In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home occupations
must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds that they are unable
to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the applicant may pursue possible
approval as a conditional use home occupation.

(1) Hours. With the exception of short term rentals, no visitors in conjunction with the home occupation
(clients, patrons, employees, volunteers, students, pupils, etc.) shall be permitted between the hours of
7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.

(2) Traffic. Vehicular traffic from business-related visitors and customers shall not exceed that which
normally and reasonably occurs for a home in the neighborhood. With the exception of short term
rentals the home occupation shall be limited to two business-related visitors or customers per hour, to a
maximum of eight business-related visitors or customers per day. Business-related deliveries or
pickups scheduled by the business owner shall not exceed two per day.




 Report by: LH
18.190.060 Fixed standards.
(14) Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not substantially,
unreasonably and uncharacteristically interfere or disrupt the peace, quiet and domestic tranquility of
the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not create or be associated with or produce odor, smoke,
dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, noises or vibrations, excessive traffic or other nuisances, including
interferences with radio and television reception or any other adverse effects within the neighborhood.




 Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, September 22, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to
                                               take public comment on the following application:
Rachelle Ramos is seeking approval for a home-based business, “R&R Grooming,” an in-home dog
grooming salon to be located at 12453 South Huron Road. She intends to have approximately three
(3) clients per day.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
