                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            July 14, 2022
Subject:         Discussion Item, Site Plan, Riverton Business Park Ph 3

This application is an administrative action item.
In reviewing the materials the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
providing feedback and guidance on a conceptual site plan.

Example Motion

This is a Discussion Item only; no motion is required.


Background

This discussion item is to provide feedback and guidance to Staff and the developer on an early
concept plan for Riverton Business Park Phase 3. Riverton Business Park, sometimes referred
to as “Riverton Flex” is a two-phase project with flex space in two large, tilt-up buildings. The
two commercial buildings are located at 12705 South 4150 West. The planning commission
approved the original site plan at the December 10, 2020 PC meeting. Phase 1 is nearing
completion; Phase 2 will be completed this fall.

The developer is considering a third phase to this project, adding two (2) smaller flex buildings
to the east between 4000 West Street and Bangerter Highway, just south of 12600 South. The
attached concept plan shows Flex Building C (32,000-sf) facing north, and a Flex Building D
(169,000-sf) facing Bangerter Highway.

The primary entrances for Building C would face north, with at-grade, roll-up loading doors on
the south side.

The primary entrances for Building D would face east, with the below-grade loading docks on
the west side facing 4000 West Street.

Zoning for the property is Planned Commercial Center (PCC). With PCC zoning to the west,
SLR-SDD to the south, C-R to the north and west.

Flex Warehouse is a permitted use in the PCC Zone.
Report by: TJP
7/11/2022
The PCC Zone has the following development standards
    Minimum lot size of 5-acres.
    Maximum building coverage of 40%.
    Landscape area at least 20% of site.
    Setbacks at least 20-ft between buildings.
    Buildings over 30,000-sf setback at least 40-ft from property lines.
    Turn of the Century Architectural elements are encouraged in the PCC Zone.
    Loading docks are anticipated and are treated specially in the zone.


Most of these issues will be addressed during review prior to the site plan coming before the
Commission for approval. However, there is one section of the PCC code which gives the
Commission discretion, and the discretion the Commission can exercise could result in
significant changes to the site.

Staff brings this conceptual site plan to the Commission as a discussion item so the
Commission can provide early direction about the location and screening of the loading docks
before the developer invests time and money completing final plans.

Riverton City Code 18.100.070 Development Standards
(4) Loading Docks/Areas. This subsection is in reference to loading docks or areas utilized for
loading or unloading and may also include vehicular access doors.

       (a) Loading docks/areas shall be oriented away from residential or other incompatible uses
       and major roadways and located internally to a site wherever possible.

       (b) Site and/or building plans where loading docks/areas are not oriented away from
       incompatible uses, including major roadways, must demonstrate that such an orientation is not
       technically feasible, as opposed to other considerations such as cost or density.

       (c) Loading docks/areas should be oriented to minimize visual, audible, and other impacts to
       surrounding uses and properties.

       (d) The city may require mitigation of loading docks/areas using distance, landscaping,
       physical screening, or other methods as determined during site plan approval.


Staff is asking for guidance for the location and orientation of the loading docks, and what
screening may be required.



Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1. Concept Plan




Report by: TJP
7/11/2022
                           250'
                                                             53'
                   50'




                                                 130'
                         32,500 S.F.




                                                50'
            80'
                            245'
      40'

            125'
30'
                                  185'

                                                                   10'




                                   56'


                                                      840'
                           168,840 S.F.




                          66'



                                          10'
                                                                                                               CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
                                                                                                               THIS SITE PLAN IS FOR CONCEPTUAL PLANNING.
                                                                                                               THE SITE WILL NEED TO BE SURVEYED TO
                                                                                                               ACCURATELY DEFINE ALL BOUNDARIES,
                                                                                                               EASEMENTS, UTILITY EASEMENTS, RIGHT-OF-WAYS,
                                                                                                               CONFIRM ACCESS LOCATIONS, AND WETLANDS.




                                                                         Riverton Flex - Buildings C & D
                                                                                              RIVERTON, UTAH
