                            MEMORANDUM
To:   Planning Commission
From: Planning Department
Date: May 28, 2026
Subject: PLZ-26-8001, Compass Insurance, an application for commercial site plan approval
             for a building to be located at 13083 South Redwood Road. Applicant –
             Courtney Jensen


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-26-8001 “Compass Insurance,” a commercial
site plan to be located at 13083 South Redwood Road with the following conditions:

    1. Site Improvements and the Building, including the exterior finish, dumpster enclosures,
        and landscaping, and all other improvements shall be consistent with the plans
        presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.
    2. Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.
    3. Site Landscaping shall include 20 trees per acre counted for the entire site.
    4. Building and Site lighting shall be installed and screened according to Riverton City
        Standards.
    5. The roof top mechanical shall be screened from view according to ordinance.
    6. Wall mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.
    7. The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton City Standards
        and ordinances, including the International Building and Fire Codes.
    8. Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with Riverton City Standards
        and ordinances, and with the recommendations of the Riverton City Engineering
        Division. An offsite Storm Drain Pond must be built by others prior to this site getting
        occupancy from Riverton City.
    9. The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water Management
        Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances prior to receiving building
        occupancy.
    10. A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any construction grading
        on the site.
    11. The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.




Report by: TJP
5/26/2026
Background
This application is for a commercial site plan, “Compass Insurance,” to be located at 13083
South Redwood Road. The 0.56-acre parcel is zoned C-PO, but all surrounding properties are
zoned RR-22. The General Plan for the area on the east side of Redwood Road is Estate
Density Residential.

Site
The applicant is proposing a two-story building (32-ft tall) with a 5,500-sf footprint. The building
meets the city height and setback requirements. The setbacks for this zone are 30-ft in the
front, 20-ft on the sides and 32-ft in the rear. This site is laid out with the building pushed west,
towards Redwood with the front doors facing east. Parking is located on the east side, thus
maximizing the separation between the building and the adjoing residential properties to the
east. A dumpster enclosure is in the northeast corner of the property.

Parking
The site provides 24 parking stalls to meet the city requirement of at least 23 stalls for an office
building of this size. The stalls are all at least 9.5-ft wide and meet the minimum stall depth.
No row of parking exceeds 10 stalls without an island. There are two unusual features in this
parking lot, typically parking islands are required at the end of each row of parking and are
typically required to be the same dimensions as a parking stall. However, the ordinance allows
the commission to approve parking layouts that do not meet this standard if it is necessary to
provide access to the parking lot and for the safe flow of traffic. Staff believes the parking
configuration meets the intent of the ordinance and is the most efficient and safe design for this
small commercial site.

Fencing
Fencing between incompatible zones is mandated by ordinance to be 8-ft masonry (See RCC
18.155.080(2). The Plans show an elevation difference of about 2-ft between the commercial
site and the east adjoiner. Riverton City Code 18.155.120(2) states that fence height shall be
measured on the exterior side of the property being enclosed. This proposed fence meets this
ordinance.

Landscaping
The C-PO zone requires each commercial site plan to include a minimum of 20% landscaping;
this site provides about 32% of the site. Additionally, city code requires boundary strips of at
least 7-ft where the site adjoins residentially zoned property. The landscape plan, which was
prepared by a Professional Landscape Architect, places columnar trees along the shared
boundaries. City ordinance requires 20 trees per acre and a water-wise landscape design,
both of which are provided on this plan.

Building Design
This building is subject to the City’s new architectural standards. It has more than 2, but not
more than 5 materials and colors. None of the materials or colors are found on the prohibited
list. The building is a mix of white stone with gray brick and Carbone brick. It is trimmed in
black (Roof cap, awnings, grout).




Report by: TJP
5/26/2026
Recommendations

Planning staff have reviewed these development plans and are recommending approval.
Notices were mailed to neighboring properties within a 300-foot radius.

Neighbor comments are attached to this report and will continue to be collected up to the day of
the meeting.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.      Application
         2.      Public Notice including Area Map
         3.      Proposed Site Plan
         4.      Proposed Lighting Plan
         5.      Proposed Landscape
         6.      Proposed Elevations




Report by: TJP
5/26/2026
