                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 25, 2025
Subject:         “Walker Property Rezone,” PLZ-25-4006, Rezone of approximately 1.16-
                 acres located near 2630 W. 12600 S. Changing the zoning from C-N to C-G.
                 Applicants- Marco Hermosillo and Richard Ortiz with Benefactor Two, LLC.



This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of application PLZ-25-4006, “Walker
Property Rezone,” by Rezoning the subject properties to C-G (Commercial Gateway Zone).

Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of application PLZ-25-4006, “Walker
Property Rezone,” thus keeping the current Zoning C-N (Commercial Neighborhood).

Background
This is a public hearing for a Rezone application brought by the applicants, Marco Hermosillo
and Richard Ortiz with Benefactor Two, LLC. On their application they describe the proposed
use of the property as:

       “Development of a modern automotive dealership. With a site over 1 acre of land, with
       a permanent structure that will serve as a high-quality showroom, with enclosed service
       bays that will help prepare vehicles for delivery with no heavy mechanical work,
       professional landscape and outdoor display areas. The dealership will be constructed
       with an emphasis on architectural quality, buffering from current residential areas.”

The subject property is two existing parcels totaling approximately 1.16-acres located at 2630
and 2610 West 12600 South. These vacant parcels are on the north side of 12600 South, near
the pedestrian bridge. The application includes the following parcel numbers:
    • 27-28-452-039
    • 27-28-452-006

The properties form an “L” shape with about 270-ft of frontage on 126th, but only about 145-ft
touching on the north adjoining property in the Country View Condominium Project.
Area Zoning is mostly commercial along 126th South with a mix of Residential Zones in the area.
To the west is C-N (Commercial Neighborhood) zoning for a small office building and a Qwest
Corporation building. To the north, the Country View Condominium Project is zoned RM-8. To
the northeast is a non-conforming 4-plex on 0.45-acres zoned RR-22. To the east is the Taylor
Bike Shop muti-tenant commercial building with C-G (Commercial Gateway) zoning. South of
12600 South is mix of single-family residential and commercial zoning and uses.

The General Plan for properties along 12600 South, from 2700 West eastward to the canal are
mostly designated as “Business Park”, with some “Community Commercial” near 2700 West. The
requested C-G zone is consistent with the “Business Park” designation.

Broadly speaking, the existing C-N zone is more restrictive than the requested C-G zone. The C-
N zone was intended to be located within and integrated into surrounding residential areas (see
RCC 18.75.010). The Table of Uses for the C-N zone is more restrictive than the uses for the
requested C-G Zone. The C-G zone was intended to be applied to properties along major arteries
such as Redwood and 12600 South, and have a combination of retail, professional businesses
and related activities (see RCC 18.70.010).

The applicants have stated their desired use of the property as an automotive dealership, even
though automotive dealerships are not permitted in the C-G Zone. In a separate application the
Planning Commission will consider whether the Table of Commercial Uses should be modified to
include Automotive Dealerships as a Conditional Use in the C-G zone.

This hearing is for the Planning Commission to make a recommendation on the zoning of the
subject parcels. If these applicants choose to pursue a commercial site plan, there will be
additional applications, studies, reports and public hearings for the site plan design.



Public Notices and Response
Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
webpage.

When considering rezone applications, the Planning Commission makes a recommendation to
City Council. The City Council will make a final decision on this application in a future City Council
Meeting where the public can attend and comment. Property owners within 1,000 feet will receive
an additional mailed notice announcing the date and time for the City Council Meeting.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Public Notice including Area Map.
       2.   Rezone Application.
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
                                                NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                    The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on Thursday,
                                    September 25, 2025 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton City Municipal Building
                                    located at 12830 S. Redwood Rd. to take public comment on the following application:

Marco Hermosillo and Richard Ortiz with Benefactor Two, LLC are seeking a Rezone of two parcels comprising
approximately 1.16-acres located at 2630 and 2610 West 12600 South. The applicants are requesting a rezone from
the existing C-N (Neighborhood Commercial) zone to the C-G (Gateway Commercial) zone.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application and take public comments before making a recommendation to
the City Council. The City Council will hold another public hearing and make a final decision in a future meeting. You
received this notice because Salt Lake County property records indicate you own property within 1,000 feet of the
subject property. Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-
208-3149.
                                                       HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public comment
for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments submitted before
5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review by
the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
Area Zoning




rivertonutah.gov
Area General Plan




rivertonutah.gov
