                                  MEMORANDUM
 To:              Planning Commission
 From:            Planning Department
 Date:            September 25, 2025
 Subject:         “Site Plan Landscaping,” PLZ-24-5007, Amendments to the “Landscape
                  Guidelines” in the Site Plan Review Chapter. Proposed by Riverton City.
                  This is a public hearing and legislative action item.
 In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
 debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
 authority for rezone applications.

 Sample Motion to Recommend Approval.
 I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of application PLZ-24-5007,
 “Landscape Guidelines” by amending the Riverton City Code 18.215.030(3) as presented.

 Sample Motion to Recommend Denial.
 I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of application PLZ-24-5007,
 “Landscape Guidelines” by amending the Riverton City Code 18.215.030(3) with the
 following modifications:
       1-
       2-

 Background
 This is a public hearing to consider proposed changes to Riverton City Code relating to
 Landscaping Standards in Chapter 18.215 Site Plan Review and Standards. These changes
 are intended to clean up existing city code without adding additional regulations.

 These changes are proposed by Riverton City staff. Earlier this year the city made changes to
 the Architectural Requirements in the Site Plan Development Standards. During that process,
 staff noticed several inconsistencies and outdated references in the Landscape Guidelines.
 These proposed changes will clarify what types of land uses are included, what standards
 apply, how trees are selected, and who approves a landscaping plan.

 The proposed changes designate the Land Use Authority as the approving body for landscape
 plans in all industrial, commercial, institutional, and muti-unit developments.

 A zone text change is a legislative recommendation by the Planning Commission. City Council
 will have the final decision in a separate public hearing.

Attachments
 The following items are attached:

         1. Proposed Changes to 18.215.030(3) Landscape Guidelines.
Chapter 18.215

SITE PLAN REVIEW AND STANDARDS

Sections:

18.215.010 Purpose and objective.

18.215.020 Approval required.

18.215.030 Site plan development standards.

18.215.040 Special provisions.

18.215.050 Application.

18.215.060 Issuance of building permit.

18.215.070 Issuance of a certiﬁcate of occupancy.

18.215.080 Failure to begin and complete development.

18.215.090 Geographic information system.

18.215.100 Appeals.



18.215.030 Site plan development standards.

(1) Site Plan Standards. The entire parcel area shall be built upon, landscaped or paved in
accordance with the zone district’s open space and parking requirements. Riverton City’s
standards and ordinances.

(3) Landscape Guidelines. Landscape guidelines are established to maintain the site
qualities that exist in all commercial buildings in any zoning districtcommercial zones and
minimize alteration, removal, or degradation of landscaping.



(a) Landscape Planting Plan. All industrial, commercial, institutional, and multi-unit
developments shall be required to submit a landscape plan prepared by a professional
licensed landscape architect.



(b) Installation Period. All yards or lots on commercial sites shall be planted and
maintained in lawns, trees, or other plantings or landscaped features, except for yard areas
covered by walls, driveways, parking lots and structures and working areas. Such
landscaping shall be completed at the time of the ﬁnal building inspection. However, in the
case of special exception or inclement weather, the developer may escrow for the cost of
landscaping, the amount to be determined by the city engineer. In no case shall yards be
maintained in artiﬁcial plantings, or more than 10 percent of the yard as crushed rock.

(c) Parking in Landscaped Areas. Temporary or permanent parking within any required
landscaped area, either for special sale or promotion, is prohibited.

(d) Minimum Landscaping Components. Landscaping for commercial sites shall require a
combination of sod (grass), trees, shrubbery, decorative rock or an approved ground cover
that is low-maintenance and drought-resistant. The use of sod as a ground cover shall be
limited to 70 percent of the total landscaped area. The remaining ground cover may be that
which is listed above. All landscaped areas shall be maintained frequently by the property
owner. Landscaped areas shall be irrigated by an irrigation system, which shall be shown
as part of the landscape planting plan, and approved by the planning commissionLand Use
Authority.

Tree types and species shall be in compliance with the recommended tree species list for
Riverton City. However, tree species not on the said list may be used if approved by the
parks superintendent. All tree species and sizes shall reviewed by the parks superintendent
and the planning department.

(e) Trees. Tree species shall be selected based on growth characteristics and site
conditions, including available space, overhead clearance, soil conditions, exposure, and
desired color and appearance.

(i) A minimum of 20 trees per acre shall be planted and maintained.



(ii) Trees shall be a minimum of one-and-one-half-inch caliper to two-inch caliper or, if
evergreen, seven feet to nine feet in height.



(iii) Where possible, a 60/40 mix of deciduous and evergreen tree species shall be used for
on-site landscaping. The species type, location, and spacing of trees shall be as shown on
the landscape planting plan and approved by the land use authority. The planning
commission land use authority may require speciﬁc types of deciduous trees for spring and
fall coloring.
(iv) Street trees with a minimum one-and-one-half-inch caliper shall be installed along all
public rights-of-way in the required park strip at 25-ft intervals, by the developer of the
property. Trees in the parkstrip do not count towards the required 20-trees per acre. The
species type, location, and spacing of street trees shall be as shown on the approved
landscape planting plan., in compliance with designated streets within any city
streetscape plans or according to the Riverton City standards and speciﬁcations for
irrigation and planting of streetscapes. Tree species shall be recommended by city sta
and approved by the land use authority. Such trees shall be placed at intervals of no less
than 25 feet.



(ev) Vegetation Removal and Tree Preservation. Every e ort to save all quality full-size
existing trees on a property proposed for development shall be made by the developer. All
existing trees over 10 inches in caliper, along with tree types and tree locations, shall be
shown and submitted to the planning commission along with the landscape planting plan.



Trees that are removed with or without good cause shall be replaced at the developer or
owner’s expense with trees of a two-inch caliper or greater, in compliance with the city’s
streetscape plan, unless otherwise approved by the planning departmentland use
authority..

(f) Internal Circulation Roads. Internal circulation roads shall be landscaped with street
trees and street-side planters. The streetscape planting shall be consistent throughout the
park to provide a unifying landscape theme. Details for these areas shall be submitted with
the landscape plan.



(g) Other Landscaping Regulations. In cases where a building(s) is set back from any street,
and parking is contained in the front or the side of a building(s), a landscaped strip of no
less than 10 feet wide shall be placed between the sidewalk and the parking lot. Trees as
approved by the city land use authority shall be placed in the strip and spaced at no less
than 30-foot intervals.
