                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             December 8, 2022
Subject:          PLZ-22-2005 Zone Text Change, “Table of Commercial Uses”. Proposed by
                  Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
 In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions
 are based on reasonably debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a
 recommendation to the City Council which has final decision authority for ordinance changes.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of the Zone Text Change for the
Table of Commercial Uses as presented.

 Background

This is a public hearing for a proposed Zone Text Change to adjust Riverton City’s Table of
Commercial Uses. This proposal does not make substantial changes to current policy or
practice. The goal of this proposal is to make it easier for customers, City officials, and city staff
to identify land uses in the City’s Commercial Zones. To achieve this goal staff identified these
objectives:
    1- Place all Commercial Zones in one Table of Uses,
    2- Eliminate categories in the Table of Uses that overlap, are defined elsewhere or are no
       longer relevant, and
    3- Add categories to address frequent questions or ongoing issues.
A copy of the proposed changes is attached, and a detailed explanation of each change is found
below.

 Explanation of proposed changes

    1. Consolidate two table of uses by adding unique uses from the PPC Table of Uses to the
       existing “Table of Commercial Uses”.

    2. Add Land Uses Permissions for the PCC Zone to existing categories unique to the Table of
       Commercial Uses.
          a. Non-Residential counseling services – outpatient only
          b. Nursing/care facility, assisted living center.
          c. Pet boarding, associated with animal hospitals/veterinary clinics.
          d. Pet boarding, nonmedical.
 Report by: TJP
   3. Add Land Uses Permissions to new categories incorporated from the PCC Table of Uses.
         a. Food production, storage, and distribution.
         b. Manufacturing, fabrication, and product assembly, internal use only.
         c. Sexually oriented businesses.
         d. Storage and warehousing, standalone.

   4. Remove Land Uses which had a description unique in the PCC Table of Uses, but were
      covered elsewhere in the “Table of Commercial Uses”.
         a. Commercial and corporate offices.
         b. Counseling services.
         c. Home improvement retail.
         d. Professional/medical offices.
         e. Public or private parks.
         f. Public/community uses.
         g. Storage and warehousing, accessory to retail, office or other uses.
         h. Wholesale distribution and sales.

   5. Consolidate various specific retail uses to be considered generally as retail.
         a. Convenience store without gasoline service.
         b. Electrical supplies (except appliances) retail.
         c. Florist retail.
         d. Gifts retail.
         e. Heating and plumbing equipment retail.
         f. Home furnishings and household appliances retail.
         g. Jewelry retail.
         h. Office equipment, furniture, machines, and supplies retail.
         i. Outlets, factory and direct sales, wholesale.
         j. Paint, glass, and wallpaper retail.
         k. Pets and supplies retail.
         l. Photographic supplies retail.

   6. Consolidate various specific offices uses to be considered generally as office.
         a. Credit reporting services (adjustments and collections).
         b. Data processing centers.
         c. Duplicating, mailing, and other office services.
         d. Employment services.
         e. Engineering, architectural, and planning services.
         f. Governmental services (executive, legislative, judicial, protective, postal).
         g. Holding and investment services.
         h. Insurance carriers, agents, brokers, services.
         i. Interior decorators office with limited retail.
         j. Legal services.
         k. Mail and phone order houses.
         l. Microfilming services.
         m. News syndicate services.
         n. Political, civic, and veterans organizations.
         o. Research and development services.
         p. Telephone and radio communication building (billing and repair).

Report by: TJP
   7. Add “Chiropractor and massage therapy” to the Table of Uses. This was previously
      considered “Beauty Services” or “Medical clinic” which frequently creates confusion with
      potential business owners, landlords and agents. Proposed permissions match Beauty
      Services.

   8. Remove “Construction Services” because it is covered elsewhere. This has been a point
      of frequent confusion because it overlaps with other definitions. A construction office is
      allowed under “Professional Office”. Some people assume “Construction Services” implied
      it was okay to store vehicles or supplies outdoors.

   9. Remove “Drive-through windows for food services”. The Table of Uses includes a
      category for “Drive-through windows” with similar permissions.

   10. Rename “Electrical, gas, and water utility” to “Utility, including electrical, gas, water, and
       communications, excluding cell-towers and wireless communications”. Keep the use as
       conditional in all zones. Remember cell towers and wireless communications are
       governed by existing city ordinance RCC.18.175 “Wireless Communication Towers”.

   11. Combine the table entries for “Hotel” and “Motel” under a single category “Hotel, motel”.

   12. Change “Landscaping Services” to Conditional in the C-R zone to be consistent with the
       PCC.

   13. Expand description of “Nurseries (plants)” to “Nurseries (Plants), wholesale and retail only”
       and change permissions to Conditional in the C-G Zone.

   14. Consolidate the overlapping uses of “Medical clinics- outpatient only” and “Physicians,
       dental, and other professional medical offices – outpatient only” into one category “Medical
       and dental offices and clinics, outpatient only.”

   15. Remove “Recreation” from “Recreation or fitness center/health club”.

   16. Combine sit-down and drive-through restaurants into a single category “Restaurants” with a
       note to see the entry for Drive-throughs. (see #9 above)

   17. Expand “Storage and warehousing into two categories 1- Storage and warehousing,
       standalone, and 2- Storage Units.

   18. Add category for Vehicle and Equipment storage, outdoor, not accessory to a primary use.

   19. Add category for Vehicle and Equipment storage, outdoor, accessory to an approved
       primary use.

   20. Expand “Wedding Reception Center” to “Reception Center”
Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1. Proposed Table of Uses.

Report by: TJP
