                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            July 10, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-5005 RM-6 Roads, Proposed Updates to the RM-6 Zone to include
                 provisions for using private roads in specific circumstances and clarify
                 Development Standards. Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final
decision authority for rezone applications.


Example Motions

    I move the Planning Commission recommend approval of amendments to the RM-6
    Zone in Sections 18.45of the Riverton City Code as presented.

    OR

    I move the Planning Commission recommend denial of amendments to amendments
    to the RM-6 Zone in Sections 18.45of the Riverton City Code.

Background

The RM-6 Zone is a Residential Zone in Riverton City that allows for small lot, single-family
detached housing. This zone was initially created as a multifamily zone with attached housing,
and retains the “RM” designation in its title. However, over time, the City was routinely
approving the RM-6 Zone on properties but was restricting the use to small lot (5,000-sf)
detached single-family homes. Eventually the City Council removed the provisions for multi-
family attached units, so that only single family detached units are allowed in this zone.

City code requires a project parcel size of “not less than one and a half acres and not more than
15 acres” but makes provisions for smaller infill projects along major roadways:

         “on parcels of at least one-half acre where such parcels have frontage onto a major
         street and where such use is in compliance with the Riverton City general plan and
         with the surrounding properties.



Report by: TJP
7/8/2025
The RM-6 Zone has standards for lot size, lot dimensions, and setbacks, but the code lacks a
standard for private roads. This means that any project proposed in the RM-6 zone can only
use public roadways with City Standard Street widths. This requirement makes many projects
impossible or impactable. This standard is particularly difficult to meet for the smaller infill
projects.

This proposed zone text change would add provisions to the RM-6 Zone similar to provisions
found in the other Single-Family Zones for the Planning Commission to determine by
Conditional Use if private roads may be used in an RM-6 Development. It would establish
standards for the Planning Commission to consider private roads vs public roads and set
standards for private roadway designs. The proposed standards are similar, but slightly
different than those currently in use in the R-1, RR-22, R-2, R-3, and R-4 Zones, they are
modified to fit the smaller lots and narrower frontages of the 5,000-sf lots. With these notable
changes:

        1. One or two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.

        2. Three or more lots, and/or a lane that exceeds 150 feet in length: 26-wide paved
           surface minimum.

        3. For developments more than 3 lots The Planning Commission may require additional
           lane width and improvements up to the minimum city standard road section (54-ft
           wide with sidewalk on each side).

        4. Private roadways may NOT be counted towards the required minimum lot area.

        5. The Commission can require a private road to provide a connection to adjoining
           properties that are currently zoned or could reasonably be zoned RM-6.

Finally, the proposed changes include a few minor deletions, clarifications and additions to
Section 18.45.180 “Development Standards” to remove portions that were specific to multifamily
development, and clarify setback measurements for single family detached structures.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

         •       RM-6 Zone Amendment.




Report by: TJP
7/8/2025
                                 Chapter 18.45
                            RM-6 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
Sections:
   18.45.010   Purpose.
   18.45.020   Permitted uses.
   18.45.040   Permitted accessory uses.
   18.45.050   Area requirements.
   18.45.070   Lots located on private roads.
   18.45.170   Fencing.
   18.45.180   Development standards.

Prior legislation: Amended during 2011 recodification; Ords. 07-08, 14-13, 15-02, 17-09,
  18-21, 18-30 and Code 1997 §§ 12-250-005 through 12-250-085.

18.45.010 Purpose.
To provide areas of medium residential density with the opportunity for varied housing styles
and neighborhood character, with a maximum density of six dwelling units per gross acre. [Ord.
21-28 § 1 (Exh. A).]


18.45.020 Permitted uses.
(1) Detached single-family units;

(2) Household pets, maximum two animals;

(3) Parks and open spaces (public). [Ord. 21-28 § 1 (Exh. A).]


18.45.040 Permitted accessory uses.
(1) Accessory Buildings. Detached garages, sheds.

(2) Recreation Facilities. Basketball and tennis courts, other sports facilities, gazebos and
pavilions, and pools and jacuzzis, subject to this chapter.

(3) Community Facilities. Club houses, common meeting rooms, pool houses, etc., subject to the
same setback, height requirements, and architectural standards of this chapter as apply to
dwelling units. [Ord. 21-28 § 1 (Exh. A).]
18.45.050 Area requirements.
(1) Parcel Size. Each application pursuant to this chapter shall be for a site of not less than one
and a half acres and not more than 15 acres. The city council may approve zoning and
development under the RM-6 zone on parcels of at least one-half acre where such parcels have
frontage onto a major street and where such use is in compliance with the Riverton City general
plan and with the surrounding properties. For purposes of this section, “major streets” shall be
defined as Redwood Road, 12600 South, 13400 South, 3600 West, 2700 West, or 1300 West.
[Ord. 21-28 § 1 (Exh. A).]


18.45.070 Lots located on private roads.
(1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems are encouraged for access to all
residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes there are cases where it is impossible or
impractical to develop using city standard public streets. In these situations, a conditional use
for a private road may be approved by the Planning Commission.

Subdivisions utilizing private roads may be developed in the RM-6 Residential zone where at
least two of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):

      (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to
      construct a public street; or

      (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically
      subdivided with public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede
      the extension of any adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future;
      and

      (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as
      required by the master transportation plan.

(2) Private roads shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and the
projected use of adjoining properties that may have access across such private rights-of-way.
The Commission may require developments utilitzing private rtoads to set aside right of way or
build roadway improvements to connect to other properties currently Zoned RM-6, and to
properties that could potentially be zoned RM-6 in the future.

(3) Private roads shall be fully improved with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards.
Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage methods may be required, as approved by
the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All portions of private rights-of-way shall
accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed subsequently:

      (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.
      (b) Three or more lots and/or a lane that exceeds 150 feet in length: 26 feet wide paved
      surface minimum. The land use authority may require additional right-of-way width, and
      additional surface improvements up to the minimum city standards for rights of way and
      street design. In these cases, the land use authority may consider the context, number of
      proposed lots, possible future connections of private roads, guest parking, pedestrian
      safety, emergency access, traffic impacts and overall livability of the proposed
      development when determining the private lane width and design.

      (d) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where
      the lane meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.

(4) Private Road Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate
emergency vehicles. At a minimum the turnaround may be in any configuration which complies
with the applicable fire codes, as determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional
turnaround area may be required by the land use authority to accommodate emergency
vehicle access.

(5 The maximum number of units allowed in a development will be established in the review of
the conditional use permit for the private road, based on criteria including but not limited to:
required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management on the private lane and on
adjacent or nearby public streets, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

(6) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access
where required by city officials or workers.

(7) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public streets shall apply to all buildings
and uses adjoining private roads and private rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from the
nearest edge of the private road.

(8) No portion of a private road may be counted towards the required lot size.

(9) No portion of a private road may be counted towards the required driveway dimensions on
individual lots.

(10) All lots on private roads shall be provided with standard city utility connections.

(11) Private roads shall be named and identified by street signs which meet Riverton City
standards. Street signs must be installed by the developer prior to the issuance of building
permits.

(12) Private Roads shall connect to public roads with a drive approach that meets Riverton city
standards.
(13) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for the maintenance of the
private roads, shared private drainage structures, and any other common improvements.

(13) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate
a private road only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access
available, now or in the foreseeable future.




18.45.170 Fencing.
(1) Fencing. All fencing shall comply with Chapter 18.155 RCC.

(2) Single-Family Residential Land Uses. All properties adjacent to or abutting an existing
multifamily or commercial zone shall install fencing compliant with RCC 18.155.080. For the
purposes of fencing, this zone shall be considered compatible with adjacent single-family zones,
unless otherwise directed by the city during zoning or development approvals. [Ord. 21-28 § 1
(Exh. A).]


18.45.180 Development standards.
(1) Lot Area. The minimum lot area shall be 5,000 square feet.

(2) Lot Width. The minimum lot width shall be 50 feet. For multifamily units, the minimum lot
width shall be 70 feet. Lot width shall be measured at the front yard setback line.

(3) Lot Depth. The minimum lot depth shall be 80 feet.

(4) Setbacks for primary structure, measured to the foundation:

   a) Front Yard.
      i) Main building: 15-foot minimum front yard setback.
      i) Garage: 20-foot minimum setback.

 b) Side Yards.
      i) Main building: five-foot minimum side yard setback..
      ii) Where adjacent to existing single-family residential zoning or use, the side yard
           setback shall be 8 feet.
      iii) On corner lots, the street side yard setback shall be 15 feet from the right-of-way.
      iv) Side loading garages shall have a side yard setback of 20-ft.

   c) Rear Yard.
      i) The minimum rear yard setback shall be 15 feet.
       i)ii) Where adjacent to existing single-family residential zoning or use, the rear yard
             setback shall be 25 feet.

(7) Minimum Living Area Square Footage. The minimum finished living area square footage
shall be 1,000 square feet for each dwelling unit.

(8) Maximum Building Height.

     Main building: 35 feet. No dwelling shall contain less than one story.

(9) Accessory Buildings. Accessory buildings shall comply with the requirements of
Chapter 18.225 RCC, Accessory Structures.

(10) Open Space. Projects over 10 acres shall include a minimum of one acre of open space. A
10 percent reduction in lot size may be allowed to compensate for this requirement, except
where a stormwater management area is utilized as open space. Said open space shall be
privately owned and maintained unless otherwise approved by the city council prior to
recordation of a plat and/or issuance of any building permits within the project. [Ord. 21-28 § 1
(Exh. A).]
