                               MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            June 23, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-22-2022 Conditional Use, “Kemp Private Lane”, to be located at 13246
                 South Jared Circle. Applicants – Craig and Kathy Kemp


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2022 “Kemp Private Lane”, to be located
at 13246 South Jared Circle with the following conditions:

      1.   Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      2.   A maximum of one (1) additional lot may access the private lane.
      3.   Private lane shall be at least 20-ft wide drivable surface.
      4.   Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the standards of
           the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      5.   The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the standards of
           the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      6.   The private lane shall be named and signed for addressing and emergency response.
      7.   The applicant shall obtain subdivision approval prior to any construction commencing on
           the private lane.
      8.   A 60-ft wide strip of property for access and landscaping, as shown on the plans,
           __________ (can or cannot) be counted towards the lot area.


 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a private lane at 13246 South Jared Circle in an
RR-22 Residential zone, which requires ½ acre lots. The subject property is an existing 1-acre lot
with a 1650 sf rambler with a basement near the front of the lot. The property has about 215-ft of
frontage on South Jared Circle and is 232-ft deep. The applicant would like to use a private lane
on the south side of his property to access land to the east.

 From the concept plan provided by the applicant, the approximate dimensions of this private
 lane appear to be 120 ft long and 60 ft wide, this is a critical point the Commission must
 decide. Riverton City ordinance suggests the flagpole of a flag lot cannot be counted towards
 the required lot area:

 Report by: TP
   “On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow
 private lane area may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see Figure 1).




The applicants drawing does show a flag-pole like configuration, but the narrow portion would be
60-ft wide with a 20-ft paved lane so the question becomes: is it solely occupied by the private
lane? Or does the additional 20-ft buffer on each side, which would be landscaped, mean that
the narrow portion is not solely for a lane?

The ordinance does not provide additional information about what would be considered “solely
used.” Would 1-ft of landscaping on each side of the paved surface qualify as another use? Or
was the intent to prevent the inclusion of strips which were less than required frontage for a zone?
Is context important in how this is evaluated in an RR-22 Zone vs how it might be evaluated in an
R-4 Zone?

The sample motion includes language to allow them to include the area or not allow them to
include the area. The applicant’s preference is to have a 60-ft wide access route as shown on
their plans, it allows them to keep some existing structures and valued spaces on the lot they plan
to retain. But it should be noted that either way the Commission decides on the flag lot area, the
applicants will likely be able to adjust their layout and proceed to subdivision.

It is important to note that plans submitted for a Conditional Use are only conceptual for the
purpose of discussing the conditional use for a private lane. The concept plans are not to be
considered approved subdivision plans. A subdivision application will follow and come before the
Commission at a later time and will include additional public noticing.

There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master Transportation Plan. No local streets
are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property. A private lane would not prevent
access by neighboring properties.

If the Commission approves the use of a private lane, the private lane and subsequent
development will be required to follow all City Code dictating the width of the lane, lane
construction, and limitations on setbacks and lot coverage.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of a private lane for the property with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.



 Report by: TP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
     1- Does this property qualify for a private lane?
     2- What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
           (Such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length).

 18.35.070 Lots located on private lanes.
 (1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
 residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
 impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
 land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
 approved by the planning commission.

 Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least two
 of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):
           (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
           public street; or

           (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided with
           public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of any
           adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

           (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as required
           by the master transportation plan.

 Additionally, a private lane is subject to these requirements

 (2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
 properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
 with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
 methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
 portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
 subsequently:

        (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.

        (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.

        (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
        meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.

        (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
        additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city up
        to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
        determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (3) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.

 Report by: TP
(4) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

(5) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
required by city officials or workers.

(6) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
streets shall apply to all buildings and adjoining private rights-of-
way, with setbacks measured from edge of required private lane
width. No portion of the private lane may be counted towards
required driveway dimensions on individual lots. On flag lots
where a narrow portion of the lot area is occupied solely by the
private lane, that narrow private lane area may not be counted
towards the minimum required lot size (see Figure 1).


(7) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.

(8) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.

(9) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(10) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(11) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(12) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(13) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

          1.    Public Notice including Area Map.
          2.    Application.
          3.    Site Plan.
          4.    Master Transportation Plan




Report by: TP
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                 The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                 on Thursday, June 23, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                 City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
comment on the following application:
Craig Kemp is seeking approval for a private lane, to be located at 13246 South Jared Circle.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 254-0704 • rivertonutah.gov
                                                  South Jordan City



                                                                                                                                                                                                               Figure 1
                                                                                                               kk
                                                                                                               jj
                                                                                                                            k
                                                                                                                            j

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Transportation
                                                                                                                                                j
                                                                                                                                                k
                                         Î kjkj         Î                     Î            k
                                                                                           j         11800 S
                                                                                                               Î            k
                                                                                                                            j                  Îkj




                                                         GF
                                         kk
                                          j
                                                                                      k
                                                                                      j
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Master Plan




                                                                                                                                               Redwood Rd
                                    k
                                    j    j                                    j
                                                                              k




                                                                                                                                                                        1300 W
                                                        j k
                                                        k j                                                                                                     k
                                                                                                                                                                j
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Legend
                                              j
                                              k
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Functional Classification




                                                                             3600 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Highway Corridor
                    85
                    ¬
                    «                                       154
                                                            ¬
                                                            «                                                                                  Î                                                               Major Arterial (106' - 120' TYP.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Minor Arterial (88' TYP.)
                                            j
                                            k                                                                                                                                                                  Major Collector (66' TYP.)
                                                                                                                                                                                 j Draper City
                                                                                                                                                                                 k                             Minor Collector (60' TYP.)

                Î   Y Î
                    X                       k
                                            j Î ÎX
                                                 Y                          Î Î ¬
                                                                                «     71       j 12600 S
                                                                                               k
                                                                                               j
                                                                                               k
                                                                                                               Î                k
                                                                                                                                j   Î         ÎÎ            k
                                                                                                                                                            j           Î                                      Other Roads (54' TYP.)

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Future Improvements
                                               Î                                                                                               Î                        Î
                                                            Bangerter Hwy
                                            k
                                            j                                                                                                               j
                                                                                                                                                            k                                                  Highway Corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Major Arterial




                                                                                                               2700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Minor Arterial
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Major Collector
      Î                                                                                                                         k
                                                                                                                                j
                                                                                                                                               Î                                                               Minor Collector


Herriman City                                       Î                                                                                                                                                          TRAX Line

                          Î        Î       k
                                           j                                 Î                                                                 Î                    k
                                                                                                                                                                    j   Î                              Proposed Alignments
                                            k
                                            j                                                                                                                                                                  Highway Corridor
      Î    Îkj Î
                j
                k
                     Y
                     X             Îkj        j
                                              k     Îkjkj X
                                                          YÎÎ                                  j
                                                                                               k   13400 S
                                                                                                               Î                j
                                                                                                                                k
                                                                                                                                               Î                                                               Major Arterial
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Minor Arterial
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Major Collector
                                                                                           j
                                                                                           k                                                                            k
                                                                                                                                                                        j                                      Minor Collector
                                                                                                                                               Î
                         Mt View




                                                                             k
                                                                             j                                                                                                                                 Other Roads
                                                                             GF



                                                                                                                                        154
                                   Î                Î                        Î         k
                                                                                       j                       k
                                                                                                               j
                                                                                                               X
                                                                                                               Y                        ¬
                                                                                                                                        «                           j
                                                                                                                                                                    k
      k
      j
                                                j
                                                k                                                              k
                                                                                                               j        j
                                                                                                                        k
                                                                                                                                                                                                       X
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y       Future Interchange




                                                                                                                                                                                                         Î     Existing Traffic Signal




                                                                                                                                                                    GF
                                                                                                                                               68
                                                                                                                                               ¬
                                                                                                                                               «
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Î     Future Signal Pending Warrant


                                                                                                                                                                                                         ( Future Major Intersection
                                                                                                                                                                                                         !
                                                                                          Bluffdale City
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Existing Crossing




                                                                                                                                                                                                       GF GF
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Future Crossing
                                    85
                                    ¬
                                    «                                                                                                                                                                    k
                                                                                                                                                                                                         j     Major Culvert Crossing

                                                                                                                                                                                                         k Existing Bridge

                                                                                                                                                                                    µ
                                                                                                                                                                                                         j
                                                                                                                                                                                        Not to Scale
                                                                                                                                                                                                         j Future Bridge/Culvert
                                                                                                                                                                                                         k
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           April 2021
