                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                  March 11, 2021

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Municipal Building, 12830 South 1700 West, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Troy Rushton, Chair                             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Keith Breinholt                                 Craig Bott, City Attorney
Natalia Brown
Gary Cannon
Shelly Cluff
Brian Russell

1.    CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Troy Rushton called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m.
Commissioner Cluff led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.    WORK SESSION

      a.     COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN: “RIVERTON SPA AND SALON” TO BE
             LOCATED AT 3703 WEST MARKET CENTER DRIVE.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that
the request involves a proposal for Riverton Spa and Salon located at 3703 West Market
Center Drive. The property is located in the Kohl’s shopping center where the pad, parking,
and circulation are already in place. An exterior rendering was displayed. He indicated that
one of the questions staff would like to discuss includes the commercial zoning requirements
for a certain number of Turn of the Century features as listed in the Ordinance. Several
years prior, a storage facility approval was appealed by the surrounding neighbors on the
basis that the City had not identified the Turn of the Century features that were required.
The appeal was won and the project was remanded back to the Planning Commission to
identify those features in the development. Mr. Lethbridge explained that since that appeal,
they have focused on consistently identifying how that requirement is met. The review is
not an issue where staff is dissatisfied with the building itself but they need to be able to
identify how it meets those turn of the Century theme.

Commissioner Russell asked how much more specific they can get with the “choose five
features” option. Mr. Lethbridge stated that they would like to proceed with tightening the
requirements and making the Ordinance more up-to-date and in line with their practices. It
would be preferable to have five specific requirements but he believed it was most important
to find a project that complies with the general standard.

In response to a concern regarding entryway requirements, Mr. Lethbridge read from the
Ordinance and stated that the lower one-third of the wall may consist of brick tile, stone,
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               2
March 11, 2021

glass, or decorative concrete. Glass may only be used when the wall is a minimum of 20
feet from any parking or drive aisle. Entries and entryway features that extend to the floor
may be excluded from this distance requirement as approved by the Planning Commission
and may not constitute more than 20% of the length of the elevation. Exterior details were
discussed.

Commissioner Brown raised concern with the color palette and asked if the proposal is
required to blend with surrounding buildings. She was in favor of consistency throughout
and believed the grey would throw off the aesthetics. Mr. Lethbridge was uncertain why the
applicant chose a grey color palette as it would be out of character with the surrounding
buildings. He confirmed that the proposal is not out of compliance with the Ordinance.

Project Architect, Mark Brimhall from AE URBIA Architects and Engineers stated that the
grey exterior was chosen to make it stand out from the other buildings. Reveals were
proposed along the sides of the building and with canopies above the store front entry. He
indicated that grey is preferable but they were open to considering a more cohesive color
palette that blends with the surrounding structures.

A question was raised as to whether this concern should be addressed in the CC&Rs.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that this is all part of the process that commercial proposals are
required to go through. Certain items are strictly defined where others are encouraged. He
stated that the color palette is at the Planning Commission’s discretion but must include a
finding.

A Commission Member expressed opposition to the proposed palette and was inclined to
approve it with colors similar to the existing buildings. Mr. Lethbridge confirmed that staff
will continue to work with the architect as the project progresses.

3.    PUBLIC HEARING ITEMS

      a.     REZONE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING A REZONE OF “MARGARET
             PARK”, A 4.28-ACRE CITY PARK LOCATED AT 1170 WEST TIMP VISTA
             DRIVE. THE CURRENT ZONING OF THE PROPERTY IS R-3, THE
             PROPOSED ZONING IS PARKS AND OPEN SPACE.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated that this is a rezone that is recognized
by the City that is north of 12600 South and east of 1300 West. He confirmed that residents
within 1,000 feet were notified and no public comments have been received. A visual
rendering was displayed. He explained that when originally designed, the property was left
with the same residential zoning as the surrounding subdivision. This rezone takes the
existing park from the R-3 zone to Parks and Open Space. There is no change to use and
it will be more restrictive and ensure that the property remains within Riverton City’s park
system.

There were no public comments. The public hearing was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
March 11, 2021


Commissioner Russell moved to recommend APPROVAL of Application PLZ-21-4001.
Commissioner Breinholt seconded the motion. The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       b.     ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHANGE: RIVERTON CITY IS PROPOSING
              CHANGES TO RIVERTON CITY CODE 18.120 “ELDERLY HOUSING
              OVERLAY ZONE”.

Chair Rushton opened the public hearing.

Mr. Lethbridge presented the staff report and stated the request is for amendments to the
Elderly Housing Overlay Zone. The item has been discussed with both the Planning
Commission and City Council and is up for action. This zone sits on top of another zone to
allow for elderly housing. The current Overlay zone includes a range of senior housing uses
and is intended for larger facilities with a maximum density of 20 units per acre.

One of the first items proposed with the amendment was to separate the uses.
Mr. Lethbridge explained that there is a distinction between senior housing and a care facility
or nursing home. The proposed amendment would remove those uses from the overlay,
which could no longer be applied to commercial zoning. Nursing homes and care facilities
would be moved into commercial zones as a commercial use and introduce language listing
those types of facilities as conditional. He noted that language was added stating that
individual ownership of living space or rooms is not permitted ultimately limiting this to care
facilities. The Ordinance includes a table of commercial uses detailing various categories
of uses and indicates whether they are permitted, conditional, or not permitted throughout
the City’s commercial zones. The table was to be amended to add those uses making
nursing homes and care facilities conditional in all commercial zones with the exception of
professional office.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that one of the areas of the Elderly Housing Overlay Zone limits how
large or small the project can be. The current Ordinance language specifies not less than
one acre or larger than 10 acres and under this amendment, density and development
standards would be regulated by the underlying zone. He emphasized the importance of
incentivizing elderly housing and ensuring that it is truly geared toward the elderly and not
just facilitating density. The current Ordinance requires a minimum of three physical
characteristics that make the units more accessible and appropriate to seniors while
ensuring that the City justifies any density bonuses. Enforcement was reviewed.

Commissioner Cluff asked for clarification regarding developers potentially coming in and
wanting to take advantage of the density allowance. She asked if the City sees properties
like these being built with the understanding that they are for the elderly and then end up
being standard high-density housing. Mr. Lethbridge explained that is not being seen
throughout Riverton due to the limited number of these types of projects. In planning and
land development, staff anticipates the worst someone could do with the language. They
expect the best but try to anticipate and plan for loopholes and ensure that there is a balance
in place. Doing so helps staff determine when and if the standard is applied.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 4
March 11, 2021


Density bonus issues were next discussed. Mr. Lethbridge stated that they addressed the
potential of a density bonus by producing incentives to provide housing that is targeted and
restricted to seniors. Implementation can be done specifying that if approved, 50% above
the underlying density can be applied. He expressed concern with this creating situations
where the zoning map does not accurately reflect what is being built on a property. In
crafting this as presented, the density bonus will be granted over the General Plan
designation meaning that the City could approve an R-M-6 zone provided it meets all
requirements of the Elderly Housing Overlay. This would allow, without amending the
General Plan, additional density to be approved. He noted that the Ordinance states that
elderly housing should be restricted to 80% primary residency to individuals ages 55 and
over consistent with State and Federal law.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he has extensive experience with empty nester
communities. He believed this was not so much an economic issue as seniors will pay a lot
to be in these types of communities. Enforcement of the 55 years of age and older can be
very difficult and he asked if a developer should be incentivized or penalized for
incorporating some type of a mixed-use element.

Mr. Lethbridge confirmed that the Ordinance addresses the multi-family zones and contains
an open space requirement of 25 to 30 percent, which gives the Planning Commission
discretion to make recommendations. He believed they will most likely see this as a tool for
infill and it may be used in situations where high-density housing is debatable and senior
housing may be more acceptable. Elderly housing can still be done under any of the
residential zones and this would be a specific tool for an area where increasing density would
be inconsistent with some of the planning but would be a better fit.

Commissioner Breinholt stated that there are a number of requirements allowing people to
live in these communities and asked if they are tied to Code somehow and questioned
enforcement. He gave an example of a high-rise community presently being targeted by
gang members. Mr. Lethbridge remarked that the language referenced has been removed
from the upcoming draft and he included the current Ordinance with language as it stands
for reference. That language is not a standard they would keep in place for elderly housing
and commercial code language has changed significantly relative to State law. He
confirmed that the City does not and cannot regulate rental versus ownership as it is a private
property matter. Even in areas that are not aggressively enforced by an HOA, the tone and
feel of the development tends to attract seniors or the elderly.

Commissioner Cannon recounted senior community projects including The Vistas and
Tithing Hill. He stated that the amenities incorporated into The Vistas have withstood the
test of time and although residents showed resistance to density at first, there are now
people waiting to get into those types of projects. Density between The Vistas and Tithing
Hill are similar with The Vistas having more amenities. He pointed out that although only
15% of the residents use the pool, all are willing to pay for its construction and maintenance.
He cautioned about enforcement of the age requirement. It was requested that a more
detailed transcription of their dialogue be incorporated into the minutes moving forward to
avoid potential conflicts.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
March 11, 2021


Mr. Lethbridge explained that although this item is queued up for a public hearing and action,
that action can be to continue should the Commission wish to receive additional information
or amendments. He encouraged the Commission Members to review specific comments in
the minutes and make necessary changes prior to approval.

Commissioner Brown asked why when a developer wishes to change the density it is not
more simple to change the zoning as part of the application. Mr. Lethbridge explained that
density would be granted through a zone change. He felt that the bonus could be granted
over the General Plan so that the underlying zoning reflects the density being given. He
also wished to provide structure for the density bonus. The General Plan reflects what the
Planning Commission and City Council have determined are appropriate land uses for the
area. He would like to move away from times where they are rewriting the underlying zoning
and applying the SD designations, which can create confusion long-term and the potential
for subjective application of the Ordinance.

Commissioner Russell moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of the Ordinance amendments to Section 18.120, Elderly Housing Overlay Zone, 18.90
Table of Commercial Uses, and Conditional Uses sections within the commercial
zones, with the following modifications and amendments:

       1.     Incorporating pertinent Commission comments from the Commission
              and having detailed minutes for review at a later time.

Commissioner Brown seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

4.     DECISION ITEMS

There were no decision items.

5.     DISCUSSION ITEMS

There were no discussion items.

6.     MINUTES

       a.     FEBRUARY 11, 2021.

Commissioner Cannon moved to APPROVE the minutes of February 11, 2021.
Commissioner Russell seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                               6
March 11, 2021

      b.    FEBRUARY 25, 2021.

Commissioner Breinholt moved to APPROVE the minutes of February 25, 2021.
Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

7.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:58 p.m.
