                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            April 11, 2024
Subject:         PLZ-24-2013, “Lita’s House Child Development Center” CUHO,” at 4763
                 West Salish Circle. Applicant – Ariadna Crockett


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.


Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-24-2013, “Lita’s House Child Development
Center” at 4763 West Salish Circle with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may have no more than 12 children per day.
    6. The Home Occupation may have up to 24 vehicle trips (12 cars) per day by
       customers/parents.
    7. Customers shall utilize the driveway for drop-off and pick-ups and times will be staggered.
    8. Customers must wait outside the cul-de-sac until it is their turn to drop off or pick up.
    9. Applicant may have one full-time non-resident employee.



Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Lita’s House Child
Development Center,” an in-home daycare and preschool for children, to be located at 4763
West Salish Circle. The property is .17- acre and in the Western Springs neighborhood in the
west central section of the city. The property is zoned R-6-SP. Neighboring properties are zoned
similarly. The applicant rents a home from her daughter at the top of the cul-de-sac on Salish
Circle. The home is a two-story and has approximately 2150- sf above grade with a finished
basement. The attached garage is 2-car with a standard driveway.
 Report by: LH
The applicant, Ms. Crockett, is requesting approval of a conditional use home occupation permit
for in-home child daycare and preschool classes. She intends to care for children from 5 months
to 5 years old. She is asking for permission to have up to 12 children per day, Monday through
Friday. No more than 4 infants will be in the home on any given day. Three of the children are
family members. She will offer preschool classes to the children in her daycare as part of a
comprehensive child development business.
Her hours of operation would be from 7 am to 5:30 pm. She would have one non-resident
employee, her sister, who lives in the area and would walk to her home or be transported by Ms.
Crockett.
Children would come and leave at staggered times (a 6-minute window for each customer) to
avoid traffic congestion. There will be no on-street parking, she has sufficient driveway space on
her property for children to be dropped off or picked up one child at a time.
The backyard is fenced for outdoor play time. Diagrams also show the areas of the home that are
to be used for classes. The space utilized for child activities is approximately 50% of the main
floor.
Child preschool classes are considered a child group activity and therefore have special
allowances in our City Home Occupation Ordinance. Child group activities are allowed more
visitors per day and more vehicle trips per day than a typical home occupation. Though the
commission may approve up to 12 children rather than 8, the number of vehicle trips per day
does not increase. This means that she will need to arrange for carpooling and/or walking to and
from the home.
This application comes to the Commission because ordinance states any child day care or other
child group activity that exceeds 8 children/students per day is a conditional use. Ms. Crockett is
requesting permission to care for 12 children per day and thus the planning commission will hear
her application.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
allowing one non-resident employee, a maximum of twelve (12) children per day and a maximum
of 24-vehicle trips per day. All customer and parent parking must be in the driveway and drop off
and pickup times will be staggered.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report, one public comment had been received expressing concerns about
aggressive dogs (who will no longer be on the property) and limited parking availability.




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to follow the
rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance found in Title 18, Chapter
190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of use. As the
intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home occupations are reviewed
and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only sees applications that are requesting
permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the
ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
        18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.

        The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
        to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
        commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
        exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

        (9) Child day care and other group child activities (e.g., dance schools, preschools, music
        classes, other care, or instruction for children) that are expected to generate or exceed eight
        children/students any day. The following guidelines shall be used by the planning commission to
        determine the maximum number of students/children permitted:

        (a) A traffic plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning department, which includes
        acceptable traffic flow, drop-off and turnaround areas.

        (b) A maximum of 12 students/children per session and a maximum of 24 students/children per
        day shall be permitted.

        (c) A maximum of three sessions per day may be permitted.

        (d) All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicular trips per day.

        (e) The total number of students/children shall include the licensee’s and any employees’
        children if they are under six years of age and are under the care of the licensee at the time the
        home occupation is conducted.

        (f) No child day care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation may be
        established within 300 feet as measured from property line to property line of another child day
        care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Public Notice including Area Map
         2.     Application
         3.     Transportation/Site Plan/Play Area
         4.     Street View, Aerial View




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, April 11, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton
                                               City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to take public
                                               comment on the following application:
Ariadna Crockett is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Lita’s House Child Development,”
an in-home preschool/daycare to be located at 4763 W. Salish Circle. She is requesting permission
for 12 children per day between the hours of 7 am and 5:30 pm, Monday through Friday. Pick-ups
and drop-offs will take place in the driveway at staggered times.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property
records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may
be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
