                              MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            November 13, 2025
Subject:         PLZ-25-2043, Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Little Footsteps
                 Preschool,” an in- home preschool located at 13706 Admiral Drive.
                 Applicant – LaFonda Scott



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2043, “Little Footsteps Preschool,” at
13706 Admiral Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may have up to 12 children per session, with a maximum of two
       sessions per day.
    6. The Home Occupation may have up to 24 vehicle trips per day by customers/parents.
    7. Customers shall utilize the driveway for drop-off and pick-ups.
    8. Customers will be instructed to either continue straight on Admiral Drive or turn right on
       Blue Admiral after drop-off and pick-up, no U-turns allowed.
    9. Pick-up and drop-off times shall be staggered to avoid congestion.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation, “Little Footsteps,” an in-
home preschool for children, located at 13706 Admiral Drive. The property is .15 acre and in the
Monarch Meadows Phase 2 subdivision in the southwest section of the city. The property is
zoned SP R-7. Neighboring properties are zoned similarly. Access to the home is from Admiral
Drive.
The applicant, LaFonda Scott, received a conditional use permit for a home preschool in 2012.
Her application requested 12 children per session with two sessions per day. However, the
 Report by: LH
planning department staff and planning commissioners at the time were concerned about the
impact of traffic on the neighborhood, and thus she was limited to 8 children per session as part
of her conditions of approval. After several years of successful operations, Ms. Scott has made
some adjustments that she feels will allow her to teach more children. Her home is near a local
elementary school, and she works the preschool schedule around the school times to avoid busy
traffic times. Children also have staggered times scheduled for pick-up and drop-off to lessen the
traffic impact on the neighborhood. Ms. Scott indicated that roughly half of the children she
serves are in her neighborhood and walk to and from her preschool.
This preschool operates Monday through Wednesday, from 9 am to 3:00 pm. Classes are held in
three sessions, beginning at 9 am, 11 am, and 1 pm. She has one employee, her daughter.
The state of Utah does not require a home preschool with classes less than 4 hours in duration to
become licensed. However, all providers giving care to children in their home must be registered
as a Child Care Registered Residential Provider and obtain background checks. Ms. Scott was
notified of this requirement and is working with the state to become registered, along with her
daughter Janessa who is employed as a teacher in the preschool.
Child preschool is considered a child group activity and therefore has special allowances in our
City Home Occupation Ordinance. Child activities are allowed more visitors per day and more
vehicle trips per day than a typical home occupation as approved by the Commission. The city
code allows the Commission to approve a child group activity with these limitations:
    a) Maximum of 12 students per session.
    b) Maximum of 24 students per day.
    c) Maximum of 3 sessions per day.
    d) Maximum of 24 daily vehicle trips.


Diagrams also show the areas of the home that are to be used for her preschool. Her proposal is
to use around 25% of the main floor space for her preschool classrooms.
This application comes to the commission because ordinance states any child day care or other
child group activity that exceeds 8 children/students per day is a conditional use to be approved
by the Planning Commission.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
allowing a maximum of twelve (12) children per day and a maximum of 24-vehicle trips per day.
All pick-up and drop-off times shall be staggered to avoid traffic problems.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. At the time of this report, one written public comment in favor of the application had been
received. One neighbor also recommended that a condition be put in the conditions of approval
regarding prohibiting U-turns on Admiral Drive.

 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1. Public Notice including Area Map
          2. Application
          3. Transportation/Site Plan

 Report by: LH
         4. Street View, Aerial View




Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to follow the
rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance found in Title 18, Chapter
190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of use. As the
intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home occupations are reviewed
and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only sees applications that are requesting
permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the
ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
        18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.

        The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
        to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
        commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
        exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

        (9) Child day care and other group child activities (e.g., dance schools, preschools, music
        classes, other care, or instruction for children) that are expected to generate or exceed eight
        children/students any day. The following guidelines shall be used by the planning commission to
        determine the maximum number of students/children permitted:

        (a) A traffic plan has been reviewed and approved by the planning department, which includes
        acceptable traffic flow, drop-off and turnaround areas.

        (b) A maximum of 12 students/children per session and a maximum of 24 students/children per
        day shall be permitted.

        (c) A maximum of three sessions per day may be permitted.

        (d) All sessions combined shall not generate more than 24 vehicular trips per day.

        (e) The total number of students/children shall include the licensee’s and any employees’
        children if they are under six years of age and are under the care of the licensee at the time the
        home occupation is conducted.

        (f) No child day care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation may be
        established within 300 feet as measured from property line to property line of another child day
        care or group child activities, conditional use home occupation.




Report by: LH
