                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                 JANUARY 9, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Evan Matheson, Chair                            Jason Lethbridge, Planning Director
Monique Beck                                    Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Lisa Halversen, Planner
Shelly Cluff                                    Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Crystal Keele
Chris Knudsen
Troy Rushton

1.           CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Evan Matheson called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

Commissioner Cluff led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.    PUBLIC HEARINGS

      A.     BEAR RIVER CONVERTERS, PLZ-24-2042, AN APPLICATION FOR A
             CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A HOME OCCUPATION (EXHAUST
             SYSTEM COMPONENTS SALES) TO BE LOCATED AT 1897 WEST PARK
             AVENUE. APPLICANT – ANNA MILLSAP.

Planner Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report and stated that this home is located on
.67 acres and is zoned R4, as are the surrounding properties. The home is rambler style
with a carport and a wraparound driveway. The applicant, Anna Millsap has run an inherited
family business from the home for the past 10 years, which she has been able to operate in
a detached garage located on the property. She originally had a simple Business License
with a Home Occupation Permit, but when attempting to renew the license, the system
flagged her as needing a Conditional Use Permit. Ms. Millsap's business has grown and
become so successful that she has needed to hire her two siblings as employees.

The business includes the sale of catalytic converters and other exhaust components that
are shipped directly to customers from the manufacturer, eliminating the need to store large
parts on the property. Ms. Millsap's home is entirely for personal use and no business is
conducted in the home. The detached garage in the rear is used for 50% business storage,
with the other 50% for personal use.

Customers receive their orders via direct shipment and do not visit the property. The only
vehicle that comes to the home for business use is a truck that delivers small parts six to
eight times a year.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 2
January 9, 2025



Ms. Millsap's Transportation Plan shows the route that trucks take to make deliveries to her
home, which is to pull into the cul-de-sac on Park Avenue and back up down one side of the
driveway. The trucks back up to the detached garage, where they unload anywhere from
one to four pallets of merchandise directly into the garage utilizing a lift gate as opposed to
a forklift. Only one part of the driveway is used for business, with the other side being used
for personal use. Ms. Millsap's employees typically share a car if they both come to the
property together. They park in the back near the detached garage so there are no parking
or traffic issues.

Ms. Halversen reported that the Code states that Ms. Millsap is entitled to have one
employee, but additional employees are permitted provided there is space for parking. The
mailer that was sent to property owners in the area resulted in one phone call from a
neighbor who was concerned about noise and traffic. Once the neighbor learned that the
business has been in operation for more than 10 years, however, she had no objections.

The proposed motion includes conditions that state that Ms. Millsap is permitted to have two
non-resident employees who must use off-street parking. Ms. Millsap is also permitted to
use 50% of the garage space for business activities.

Commissioner Cluff asked if any manufacturing takes place on the property. Ms. Millsap
confirmed that there are deliveries only and no manufacturing on site. Commissioner
Knudsen’s understanding was that the license was flagged due to business being conducted
in the outbuilding and the employee situation. Ms. Halversen confirmed that the license was
flagged because Ms. Millsap uses an outbuilding. Ms. Millsap began with a simple Home
Occupation Permit, which does not require Planning Commission approval.

Ms. Millsap reported that she was born and raised in Utah and has spent a lot of time in
Riverton since she was a teenager. She took over the family business approximately 10
years ago from her father, who ran it as a retirement hobby and wanted his children to work
for him. Ms. Millsap began working for him when she was 16 and took over the business at
the age of 25 after her father's passing. Ms. Millsap has employed her siblings at different
times to help with the business and currently employs her younger brother and sister.

Commissioner Cannon asked Ms. Millsap if she anticipates opening a retail location in the
future. Ms. Millsap responded that she would like to open a retail store, although she has
not yet been able to make that transition despite the business's growth. She also stated
that, over the past five years, she has developed her own products such as repair kits, which
are manufactured in China. She currently has a growing number of customers wanting to
buy the kits in bulk, which are shipped directly from the manufacturing plant. The kits have
enabled her to significantly increase her income in a way that does not add stress to the
property by needing to store inventory. However, she hopes to grow her customer base and
move the business from the property into a retail store. Ms. Millsap stated that her ultimate
goal is to have customers shop and pick up products in a retail location.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               3
January 9, 2025


Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of Application PLZ-24-2042, "Bear River Converters, LLC," at 1897 West Park Avenue
subject to the following:

Conditions:

      1.      The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
              applicable Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City
              Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
              Codes.

      2.      Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      3.      Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside
              agency approvals.

      4.      Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards and
              applicable Qualifications and Conditions as outlined in the Home
              Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.

      5.      Applicant may employ two full-time non-resident employees.                  All
              employees must use off-street parking.

      6.      Applicant is permitted to use up to 50% of garage space for business
              activities.

Commissioner Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      B.      FAR WEST ENVIRONMENTAL, PLZ-24-2044, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL TESTING LAB
              OFFICE TO BE LOCATED IN THE COMMERCIAL NEIGHBORHOOD (C-N)
              ZONE AT 12166 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD. APPLICANT – DAWN
              SANSING WITH FAR WEST ENVIRONMENTAL.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich, presented the Staff Report and stated that the request is for an
existing commercial building in the C-N Zone. There is an eight-foot wall separating the
subject property from all adjacent residentially zoned properties. The applicant will use the
space for an office. The business conducts environmental testing, but will not do any testing
at this location. The Table of Uses for the C-N Zone was reviewed, which indicates that
professional offices, including commercial, corporate, nonprofit, government, and medical,
are conditional in the zone. Mr. Prestwich reported that the C-N Zone is the City’s most
restrictive zone, with very limited allowed uses.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
January 9, 2025



Mr. Prestwich reported that the applicant was unable to attend the meeting but provided an
email clarifying that no materials testing, sampling, or storage would occur at this location.
It will be used as administrative office space only. The proposed elevations were reviewed.
There is a daycare at the front of the building and the applicant’s office will be to the rear.
The business has one vehicle. No additional impacts were identified by Staff. Staff
recommended approval subject to the conditions listed in the Staff Report.

Mr. Prestwich reported that some questions were received in response to the public notice
but no objections or other comments were submitted.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The
public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE a
Conditional Use Permit for PLZ-24-2044, “Far West Environmental”, to be located at
12166 South Redwood Road, subject to the following:

Conditions:

       1.     No exterior modifications to the existing building.

       2.     No outside storage except for work-related vehicles.

       3.     No material testing is to be conducted on-site.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       C.     JOSEPH WHITE CODE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-24-5006, AN
              APPLICATION REQUESTING A CHANGE TO THE RIVERTON CITY
              TABLE OF COMMERCIAL USES TO MAKE “RECEPTION CENTERS” A
              CONDITIONAL USE IN THE COMMERCIAL NEIGHBORHOOD (C-N)
              ZONE. APPLICANT – JOSEPH WHITE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that this is a legislative item that will go
before the City Council for a final decision. The Amendment is similar to a rezone in that
the Planning Commission would make a recommendation based on a reasonably debatable
argument for making the change, and the City Council would consider the Commission’s
recommendation and feedback in its decision.

The applicant, Joseph White, operates Wasatch Arts School and would like to expand the
use into a neighboring space. However, the use would be classified as a “Reception
Center”, and reception centers are not permitted in the C-N Zone. The request was to
amend the Table of Commercial Uses to include Reception Centers as a Conditional Use,
which would apply to all properties in the zone. An aerial map of the property was displayed
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 5
January 9, 2025


and Mr. Prestwich identified properties in the City that would be impacted by the
amendment. He noted that C-N is both the most restrictive and least applied zone in
Riverton.

Mr. Prestwich reported that when someone approaches the City about a potential use, Staff
first checks zoning for compatibility and then reviews the Table of Uses to determine if the
use is permitted, conditional, or not permitted. If permitted, they move to the Site Plan or
Business License process. If it is a Conditional Use, Staff must determine if they can
approve the use or if it needs to go before the Planning Commission. Uses identified as
non-permitted require consideration of a Zoning Text Amendment.

City Code §18.75.010 defines the purpose of the C-N Zone and states that its intention is to
blend in with surrounding neighborhoods. The Table of Uses identifies reception centers as
a Conditional Use in the Commercial Downtown (“C-D”) and Gateway Commercial (“C-G”)
zones, not permitted in C-N or Commercial Professional Office (“C-PO”), and permitted in
Commercial Regional (“C-R”) and Planned Commercial Center (“PCC”). The C-R and PCC
Zones are the City’s most permissive zones and are located near Bangerter Highway. C-D
and C-D Zones are in downtown Riverton and along the edges of the City.

Mr. Prestwich reported that because the request was for a Zoning Text Amendment that
would impact the entire City, notices were posted on the City's website but not mailed to
individual property owners. No comments were received.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, it was clarified that there is one
reception center in Riverton as well as a reception area at Jim’s Family Restaurant that can
accommodate large groups.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the applicant would be required to return with a Site Plan
or Business Plan if the amendment was approved. Mr. Prestwich clarified that a Conditional
Use Permit application would be required to address impacts created by the business. City
Attorney, Ryan Carter, reminded the Commission that Conditional Uses must be approved
unless those impacts cannot be mitigated, or specific conditions cannot be met.
Mr. Prestwich added that a Site Plan would also be required if any changes were proposed
to the parking lot or exterior of the building. In response to a follow-up question, Mr. Carter
stated that it would be plausible that alcohol could be allowed for specific events but he did
not believe they would be eligible for a permanent permit. The State issues those permits.

Commissioner Cannon stated that he has dealt with this issue in other cities. The property
in question has ample parking. However, if a similar business does not have sufficient
parking and on-street parking is to be utilized, that could be a challenge.

Mr. Prestwich reported that, per City Code, “The intent of the C-N Zone is to encourage
compatible neighborhood market uses to be incorporated within a neighborhood so as to
discourage residents from having to drive into the commercial centers for day-to-day
necessities. Permitted and conditional uses within this zone are identified under RCC §
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               6
January 9, 2025


18.90.10.” He noted that some C-N properties are on larger roadways like Redwood Road
and 12600 South that have grown over time and are no longer convenient to neighborhoods.

Commissioner Knudsen asked about the motivation behind changing the Table of Uses
rather than rezoning the property. Mr. Carter stated that the applicant has discretion as to
the type of application they file, and that question should be posed to Mr. White.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich reported that the area is
designated Community Commercial in the General Plan.

Chair Matheson asked about the unforeseen consequences of approval. Mr. Carter stated
that the Planning Commission does not have the discretion to decide if a Conditional Use is
appropriate once that use is included in the Table of Uses. Mr. Prestwich expressed concern
about blurring the lines between zones. The C-N Zone has a particular definition and use.
If they want the zones to be distinct tools that apply to different areas, then they need to
keep those lines in place.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff regarding restrictions that could be
placed on the use regarding things like parking or fencing, Mr. Prestwich stated that the
applicant would be required to meet the parking requirements, and an eight-foot masonry
wall would be required to separate the property from residential zones. Many properties in
the C-N Zone are smaller parcels that would not be suitable for a reception center. Mr.
Carter added that if someone applied for a reception center but did not have the minimum
number of required parking spaces, the matter would not come before the Planning
Commission for a Conditional Use Permit because it would not meet the required minimum
standards. If the applicant proposed a shared parking arrangement, the matter would be
reviewed by the Commission.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed the Parking Ordinance and reported that one parking space is
required per 175 square feet of floor space for public assembly, and one space per 250
square feet for dance halls or skating rinks. Reception centers are not specified in the City
Code, but it would likely fall within that range.

Commissioner Cannon stated that it is a unique situation where parking is not a challenge.
The subject property has ample parking and Mr. White owns other properties in the area
that could be used for overflow parking. He suggested that they consider what the use could
look like on other properties in the C-N Zone.

Chair Matheson asked if a reception center is allowed as a Conditional Use in a more
residential area and if restrictions could be imposed regarding closing time or other issues.
Mr. Carter stated that it would be possible to impose such conditions, but the Commission
should consider if the use is harmonious with the area. A reception center will create some
degree of noise. They can impose restrictions to attempt to mitigate that noise, but they
cannot squelch it. Chair Matheson noted that the use would be harmonious for Mr. White’s
property, but likely not for other properties in the C-N Zone.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
January 9, 2025


The applicant, Joseph White, stated that he understood the discussion regarding how the
Text Amendment could affect other areas of the City, but if a property did not meet specific
requirements for a Conditional Use, it would not even be brought before the Commission.
He believed that the C-N Zone had protections that would void some of those issues. He
noted that the C-N Zone includes restrictions on hours of operation for commercial uses
within 250 feet of residentially zoned districts. Changing the zone would require them to
bring the structure into compliance with current City Code, and it is an old building that would
require a lot of work. He noted that the only other zone the property would qualify for is C-
G, and a reception center would still be a Conditional Use in that zone He believes the C-N
Zone offers enough protections and pointed out that it only applies to five areas of the City.
He has a shared parking agreement allowing overflow parking on his other properties.

In response to a question, Mr. Carter clarified that Mr. White would be required to comply
with things like ADA access regardless of the zone, and those items would be addressed
with the Building Permit application. Any renovations would be required to meet modern
standards. Mr. Prestwich stated that zoning does not affect site or structural requirements,
only use. Mr. White stated that the events center space is up to date, but he believed that
the dance studio, which occupies the remaining two-thirds of the building, would have to be
renovated if the property was rezoned. Mr. Carter clarified that rezoning would not affect
the dance studio unless or until changes were made to that portion of the building. If the
Planning Commission preferred that the zone be changed to C-G, that would add additional
allowed uses in the building, but it would neither lessen nor increase requirements for the
building itself.

Commissioner Knudsen stated that his preference was that the property be rezoned to C-
G. Commissioner Rushton asked if rezoning would trigger the requirement for an eight-foot
wall between the property and adjacent residential property. It was reported that the fencing
requirement has already been met. If the Conditional Use was allowed in the C-N Zone,
Mr. White would still need to return with a Site Plan.

Mr. White stated that he did not understand why there was a concern over changing the
Table of Uses if all Conditional Uses would require approval. Mr. Carter clarified that the
question before the Planning Commission and City Council was whether the use was an
appropriate use for the C-N Zone, not for this particular property.

Chair Matheson stated that he believed the Commissioners agreed a reception center would
be a good use for the site, but they were concerned about adding the use to the Table of
Uses for the C-N Zone. They believed rezoning the property to C-G would be a more
suitable solution. Mr. Prestwich clarified that the Planning Commission could not
recommend rezoning in this action because their response must be based on the
application.

Mr. Carter stated that Mr. White could submit a rezoning application, and the Planning
Commission had already discussed and indicated a potential outcome of that application.
However, residents of the adjoining neighborhood would receive notice of the application,
whereas they were not individually notified of the current application. Mr. Prestwich
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  8
January 9, 2025


suggested that the Planning Commission make a recommendation based on the application
before them, and the applicant could then decide how to proceed. If Mr. White chose to
pursue a rezoning application, there would be additional fees associated with it.

Commissioner Cluff commented that she lives near the new private school, and she can
envision some of the parcels in that area becoming C-N. That is a much different feel from
Redwood Road, and she would not want an events center in that area even if it met all
requirements for a Conditional Use. She did not believe the built-in conditions would
address all concerns. She agreed that an events center is a great use for Mr. White’s space,
but she believes the property should be rezoned to C-G and the C-N Zone should be
reserved for more appropriate parcels.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The
public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton agreed with Commissioner Cluff. He reported that the Jordanelle
Reception Center occasionally had events with overwhelming volume. It can be hard for
that type of business to have an idea of how many people will attend, and he can see the
danger of that affecting nearby neighborhoods. He did not believe the C-N Zone should
allow reception centers. If a property owner believes their property is suitable for a reception
center, they should request rezoning to an appropriate zone. Commissioner Cannon
appreciated Commissioner Rushton’s comparison, but he believed Mr. White’s reception
center would appeal to a different clientele than Jordanelle.

Chair Matheson reported that Mr. White is a personal friend. He believes the reception
center would be a great use for the property, but he agreed with his fellow Commissioners
that it should not be a Conditional Use in the C-N Zone. He believes the property should be
rezoned.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission recommend DENIAL of
Application PLZ-24-5006, “Joseph White Text Amendment”, thus keeping the existing
Table of Uses and recommending that the property be considered for rezone to
Commercial Gateway (C-G). Commissioner Knudsen seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

       D.     HISTORIC SITES ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT, PLZ-25-5001,
              AMENDING SECTION 18.63.040, RIVERTON HISTORIC SITES LIST,
              REGULATING MINIMUM AGE OF POTENTIAL SITES AND DESIGNATION

Mr. Carter reported that the Text Amendment was being brought before the Planning
Commission out of an abundance of caution. Although the issue is unrelated to Land Use,
the Historic Preservation Commission Ordinance is in Title 18 of Riverton City Code and
everything within Title 18 is brought before the Planning Commission. The Historical
Commission was created approximately 10 years previously to inventory Riverton City’s
older structures and encourage property owners to work toward preserving those structures.
The structures would then be celebrated and identified on the Historic Registry. The current
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
January 9, 2025


Ordinance defines a historical structure as one that is 75 years of age or older. However,
State statute defines a historical structure as 50 years of age or older. The Historic
Preservation Commission completed an inventory of the City’s structures and was unable to
identify any meaningful structures that are 75 years old. They requested that the definition
be amended to 50 years. The Text Amendment also includes additional language indicating
that qualifying structures will be granted a plaque from the City at the City’s expense.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Carter clarified that the
amendment is not required by the State. It was requested by the Historic Preservation
Commission because they could not identify any structures that meet the current
requirement of 75 years of age or older. The cost of the plaques is nominal. The City would
purchase the first plaque, and any replacements would be at the owner’s expense. In its
annual budgeting process, the City Council will decide how much money they want to
allocate to plaques, and the property owner will be eligible to receive a plaque based on
available inventory and funding.

Commissioner Rushton referred to Bree Place, which includes a home that is more than 50
years old, and asked how the amendment would affect that infill redevelopment project and
if they would be subject to the 10-day delay. Mr. Carter clarified that Bree Place would be
grandfathered in, and it is the property owner’s decision if they want to be on the Historic
Registry. A new project could be subject to the 10-day delay, but that would be unlikely to
affect construction due to all the other things that would be taking place simultaneously in
the application process.

Commissioner Matheson stated that he was stationed at Fort Bliss, Texas, which had
barracks from World War II that fell under a similar ordinance specifying that historic
structures could not be removed regardless of their condition. Mr. Carter clarified that, with
the exception of a potential 10-day delay period, no restrictions on changing the property
were included in the Ordinance.

Commissioner Rushton did not understand moving the bar simply because the Historic
Planning Commission has nothing to preserve. They had a similar conversation recently
regarding downtown architecture. Riverton is not an old city, and he did not agree with
changing the Ordinance for the stated reason. He also opposed the 10-day delay because
it could delay work on a property and impact development costs.

Mr. Carter clarified that under RCC § 18.63.040(6):

       b.     If a historic resource is to be demolished or undergo major alterations, efforts
              shall be made by the Historic Preservation Commission to document its
              physical appearance before that action takes place.

              (i)    The City shall delay issuing a Demolition Permit for a maximum of 10
                     calendar days and shall notify a member of the Historic Preservation
                     Commission, who will take responsibility for the documentation.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                10
January 9, 2025


              (iii)   A Demolition Permit shall be issued after a period of 10 calendar days
                      from the initial date of permit application whether or not the Historic
                      Preservation Commission has documented the building.

Mr. Carter stated that those requirements are currently in place for buildings 75 years of age
or older. The only change would be to lower that age to 50 years. It is a collateral issue. If
the Planning Commission did not approve of the 10-day delay period, that should be a
separate recommendation for the City Council to consider.

Commissioner Keele indicated that preserving a structure’s appearance with photographs
should not usually take 10 days. Mr. Carter clarified that the permit would proceed as soon
as photographs were taken, and the regulation would only apply to structures that are
already on the Historic Registry. The property owner decides whether to place their property
on the Registry. Commissioner Keele stated acknowledging properties that are 50 years
old would allow some residents to take pride in owning a structure that is considered historic.

Commissioner Cannon agreed with Commissioner Keele. He noted that the Utah
Department of Transportation demolished most of the older houses on Redwood Road.
Only a few homes with historic value remain, and the ones that have been preserved look
very nice.

Mr. Carter stated that the Crane home dates back to the 1930s, but because it was relocated
from its original building site it no longer qualifies as a historic structure.

Commissioner Matheson opened the public hearing.

Joseph White reported that he owns the Beckstead Home on Redwood Road, which was
built in 1900. It has been renovated but not removed from its foundation. He then discussed
the renovation process and stated that he would consider adding it to the Registry.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission recommend APPROVAL
of the Historic Sites Ordinance Text Amendment, Application, PLZ-25-5001,
Amending Section 18.63.040, Riverton Historic Sites List, regulating minimum age of
potential sites and designation plaque criteria. Commissioner Cluff seconded the
motion. Vote on motion: Commissioner Keele – Yes, Commissioner Rushton – No,
Chair Matheson – Yes, Commissioner Cluff – Yes, Commissioner Beck – Yes,
Commissioner Cannon – Yes, Commissioner Knudsen – Yes. The motion passed 6-
to-1.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 11
January 9, 2025


3.       DISCUSSION ITEMS

         A.     ARCHITECTURAL AND DESIGN STANDARDS, PLZ-24-5007, CHANGES
                TO COMMERCIAL BUILDING STANDARDS AS FOUND IN TITLE 18
                “LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT” OF THE RIVERTON CITY CODE.
                APPLICANT – RIVERTON CITY.

Planning Director, Jason Lethbridge, reported that Staff drafted the revised standards based
on discussions and feedback from the Planning Commission and City Council. Currently,
the City has a checklist of strictly defined elements that must be in place, and the updated
Design Standards will replace that list with a broader standard. They previously discussed
different ways to accomplish that such as a points system or other methods to ascertain
whether a building is in compliance. The direction from the Council was that they would
prefer to have broader standards that allow the Planning Commission and Staff more
discretion.

Current standards include:

     •   Exterior building materials are limited to no more than four and no less than two types
         of materials.
     •   The color of exterior building materials is limited to no more than four and no less
         than two major colors per development.
     •   Bright colors are only permitted as accent colors.
     •   No more than 75% of any building elevation shall consist of any one material or color.

Changes to the revised standards were reviewed.

Consistency and cohesion:

     •   New or renovated commercial buildings in an existing center shall include and identify
         at least two major elements of consistency with the center. That could be materials
         or features.
     •   The Planning Commission can include a review of the original center’s approval.
     •   Standalone buildings would require one major element of consistency.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that Staff went through the proposed process with the Burger King
building to determine which elements were consistent with surrounding buildings while also
allowing for different building types and architecture. All references to “turn of the century”
were eliminated, the updated standards instead consider the number and types of materials.
Although a limit of four materials may seem restrictive, a typical building will only have four
similar elements.

Commercial Downtown:

     •   Eliminate all references to “turn of the century”.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  12
January 9, 2025


     •   New or renovated buildings shall include a minimum of 20% brick.
     •   Reduced required elements to two, and includes language that gives the Planning
         Commission discretion in determining other features.

Mr. Lethbridge reported that the City Council did not indicate a strong desire to retain the
turn-of-the-century features, and requested the Commissioners’ input on removal of that
requirement and reduction of required elements of consistency to two.
.
Prohibited materials:

     •   Vinyl, aluminum, or metal siding.
     •   Wood as a primary exterior finish material.
     •   Uncolored and/or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
     •   Corrugated metal or similar material and “rusted” or otherwise distressed metal.
     •   Precast cement walls are acceptable if they are covered or patterned.

Examples of windows that extend to grade were reviewed, and Mr. Lethbridge noted that
previous Commissions have grappled with whether to allow this element. Current Code
requires a lower course of brick, stone, or other material. The Commissioners’ feedback on
this item was requested.

Commissioner Cluff asked for clarification on whether the lower course of brick is required
for safety, functionality, or aesthetics. Mr. Lethbridge clarified that it is an aesthetic issue.
There have been discussions regarding safety if a car hits the building, but the course of
brick is usually a veneer that does not impact safety. Commissioner Cluff expressed support
for allowing glass to extend to grade, as well as removing requirements for things like
columns and arches, and stated that perhaps one reason the downtown area has not been
rejuvenated is because the current standards require buildings to look old.

Commissioner Cluff provided feedback on the following items:

6.       Buffers, Item A: “A wall and landscaping, fencing, or landscaping of acceptable
         design shall effectively screen the borders of any commercial or industrial lot which
         abuts an existing agricultural or platted residential use.” She asked if that was a
         deviation from current fencing requirements. Mr. Lethbridge stated that the
         references section should not have been included in the draft and would be eliminated
         from the final standards.

3.       Outdoor Storage Standards, Item B: “Outdoor storage shall be screened from
         public view and shall consist of a solid wall, excluding CMU blocks.” Commissioner
         Cluff asked for the reasoning behind requiring masonry and not allowing vinyl or
         another material. Mr. Lethbridge stated that they should discuss that standard, but
         there can be issues related to improperly screened outdoor storage. For example,
         the front parking lot at IFA has a lot of items that are not screened. To her specific
         question, he believed a solid masonry fence could be excessive in most situations,
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                13
January 9, 2025


       and they should discuss how they want outdoor storage areas to be treated moving
       forward. Commissioner Cluff stated that as long as storage is at the rear of a building,
       the screening material is not as critical. Mr. Lethbridge noted that it depends on the
       type of use. For example, if an auto repair shop parks wrecked vehicles in plain sight,
       that would be a concern. If someone is simply parking work trucks at the rear of a
       business, that is less of a concern. Staff will modify the language to be more use-
       specific.

1.     Purpose and General Requirements, Item 2: “Make reasonable efforts to preserve
       the desirable existing conditions found on a site through minimized removal of
       desirable trees and other vegetation and soil and minimized site grading.”
       Commissioner Cluff requested that the item be reworded for clarity.

5.     Screening and Storage, Item B: “Screening for storage and loading areas shall be
       composed of six-foot high solid masonry or architectural precast concrete walls with
       opaque gates and self-latching mechanisms, to keep gates closed when not in use.”
       Commissioner Cluff requested that the item also be changed to allow any type of
       solid fencing.

Commissioner Rushton agreed that glass should be allowed to extend to grade, and
indicated that the project across the street would look much more inviting with this design
element. Regarding colors, he believes there should be a color palette ban so that colors
like neon green on the vape shop would be banned even as accent colors. He also believes
that patio or outdoor gathering space should be given additional consideration. For example,
metal is not allowed, but metal may be the best material for a patio. Mr. Lethbridge indicated
that they could differentiate between the main structure and things like patios, porches, or
awnings. Commissioner Rushton asked if more modern buildings like those in South Jordan
would be allowed by the new Design Standards. Mr. Lethbridge stated that it will expand
the types of elements the Planning Commission is able to approve in terms of style of
architecture and make it easier for more modern styles to come before the Commission.
Currently, Staff enforces the requirement for five elements, which can be a challenge for
both Staff and developers.

Mr. Lethbridge stated that the Design Standards update is in response to Burger King. The
building had a great design, but the five-element requirement put both the Planning
Commission and the developer in a bad position. Mountain View Village is another good
example of how applying broader standards can benefit the community.

Commissioner Cannon stated that the Commission reviewed an application approximately
four years previously for an ugly, square building. The property owner wanted to build it as
inexpensively as possible. The Commission would state a requirement, and the property
owner would push back. The final plan met all requirements, but the building is not as
aesthetically pleasing as it could have been. Mr. Lethbridge stated that the checklist is a
catch-22 because while it sets very clear requirements, it also allows a developer to pick five
elements without the City’s input. The revised standards would put more responsibility on
the Commission by giving them more discretion in determining if an element is consistent.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 14
January 9, 2025


The process will be more involved. However, because the City is at a stage where it is
considering infill commercial development or renovations rather than large-scale
developments, they already have a palette to work from. More modern aesthetics will be
allowed as long as there are identified ways the building fits with the area.

The Planning Commissioners agreed that glass should be allowed to extend to grade.

In response to a question, Mr. Lethbridge stated that former Planning Commissioner Russell
was the architect for the Burger King project, and Staff has received feedback from him.
Engaging an architect to assist with updating the standards can be difficult because different
architects have different opinions, but he will ask Mr. Russell for his feedback on the final
draft.

The intent of the update is to provide the Planning Commission with more discretion moving
forward. Anything they do not want to see should be defined, but otherwise, the types and
colors of materials will be at the Commission’s discretion.

In response to a question from Commissioner Knudsen, Mr. Lethbridge stated that the
previous standards required the lower third of a building, approximately 30%, to be brick or
stone in the downtown area, but design standards are moving away from brick to some
extent. The 20% requirement was presented as a starting point for discussion, and the City
Council did not have strong feelings regarding that number. Staff would not be concerned
about eliminating the requirement.

Commissioner Cluff agreed with Commissioner Knudsen that they should mention red brick
for the downtown area. They should encourage architecture that gives a nod to historical
elements, and red brick is a theme in the downtown area. Chair Matheson agreed that red
brick is consistent in the area, and he would like to see it specified in the standards.

Mr. Lethbridge referred to photographs of prohibited materials included in the Staff Report.
He stated that it is becoming popular to scrape a stone pattern into wet stucco, but that is
not aesthetically pleasing.     However, stamped brick or stone patterns can be
indistinguishable from brick.

Commissioner Keele agreed that neon colors should not be allowed except on signage, and
that red brick should be specified for the downtown area.

Commissioner Cluff stated that she likes the look of rusted metal accents and asked if the
purpose of prohibiting it was functional or aesthetic. Mr. Lethbridge stated that rusted or
distressed metal was included in the list of prohibited materials to avoid any potential issues,
but they could consider limiting it to accent materials only.

Mr. Lethbridge thanked the Commissioners for their input. He reported that Staff will refine
the text and present the updated Design Standards at a future meeting.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                         15
January 9, 2025


4.       DECISION ITEMS

         A.    ELECTION OF PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIRMAN FOR 2025.

Chair Matheson opened the floor for nominations.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the procedure for someone who is not in attendance.
Mr. Carter stated that the Commissioner could still be nominated. If they declined the
nomination, the matter would be brought back for another vote. Commissioners who
previously served as Chair were eligible for nomination, but Chairs were not allowed to
succeed themselves.

Commissioner Cannon moved to NOMINATE Darren Park to serve as 2025 Riverton
City Planning Commission Chair. The motion was seconded by Commissioner
Rushton. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

Commissioner Cluff moved to NOMINATE Monique Beck to serve as 2025 Riverton
City Planning Commission Vice-Chair. Commissioner Knudsen seconded the
nomination. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

5.       MINUTES

         A.    MINUTES APPROVAL – DECEMBER 12, 2024.

Chair Matheson reported that Commissioner Rushton’s name was misspelled in the motion
on Page 4.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of December 12, 2024, as amended. Commissioner
Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

Mr. Lethbridge updated the Commission on recent actions by the City Council and reported
that all decisions were as recommended by the Planning Commission.

     •   The Pelaez Rezone Application was denied as the Council recognized it was non-
         compliant with the current General Plan.
     •   The Sycamore Glen Rezone Application was approved.
     •   The Master Muffler Rezone Application was approved.
     •   The Roberts Rezone request was approved.

6.       ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:50 PM.
