                                  MEMORANDUM
To:                 Planning Commission
From:               Planning Department
Date:               January 9, 2025
Subject:            Discussion Item, Proposed Updates to Riverton City’s Commercial Architectural
                    Standards, Amendments Proposed by Riverton City


This is a discussion item.
City staff is presenting a topic for discussion to get input and guidance from the Planning Commission before any formal
action is taken. This is not a public hearing item, and not motion is required.



Background

Riverton City has initiated a significant update to its commercial architectural standards. These
standards address the exterior materials and visual elements of commercial buildings, and
guide the development, review and approval process for proposed commercial projects in the
City.

Staff received initial feedback from the Commission and direction from the City Council on the
proposed amendments. The intent of the update is to provide a simplified and broader standard
for development while preserving the existing character of Riverton City’s commercial areas.
Generally speaking, the proposed updated language features fewer rigid “checkbox” type
standards, with more discretion given to the City to allow for a more varied range of architectural
styles and materials. However, the update does include requirements for consistency with
existing commercial buildings and the architectural standards approved for existing centers.

Staff will present the draft language to the Commission for discussion at this meeting.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

         •       Draft Amendment.




Report by: TJP
1/7/2025
Chapter **.**.          Site and Architectural Design Standards

1.   Purpose.
2.   Applicability and Review Process.
3.   Site Design Standards
4.   Architectural Design Standard
5.   Additional Requirements – Downtown Area (C-D)
6.   Areas Addressed by Development Agreement

1. Purpose and General Requirements.
These standards have been adopted to promote high quality development, while enhancing and
protecting aesthetics as the City grows. Each new development in the City shall be designed to:
    1. Provide for a harmonious arrangement of buildings, site landscaping, open space,
        driveways, access, parking, and development amenities.
    2. Make reasonable efforts to preserve the desirable existing conditions found on a site
        through minimized removal of desirable trees and other vegetation and soil and
        minimized site grading.
    3. Use high quality building materials, colors, textures, lighting, architectural and landscape
        forms.
    4. Create safe vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle circulation by way of interior drives,
        parking areas, pathways, and sidewalks.
    5. Provide buffering between adjacent properties.
    6. Provide architectural designs that are visually appealing on all visible elevations.
    7. Maintain building massing that is scaled to pedestrian and vehicular perspectives.

2.              Applicability and Review Process.
     1. Conformance required. This section applies to all new development in the City unless
        otherwise exempted in this Title, and expansions to previously existing development in
        the City.
     2. Exemptions. The following uses shall be exempt from the requirements of this section:
          a. New and expanded Agricultural sites and structures.
     3. Review Process. Site and Architectural Review will be done by City Staff as part of the
        review process for the related site plan, subdivision plat, or other applicable development
        application. Such review shall be done prior to approvals or public meetings.
     4. Submittal Requirements. Scaled building elevations and other related documents and
        plans shall be submitted that indicate all colors, styles, materials, and other proposed
        building treatments. Material and color boards, physical and/or digital, shall also be
        submitted with the items required accompanying development application.

3. Site Design Standards.
   1. Uses within Buildings. All uses established in any commercial, office, warehouse,
       or industrial zone/use shall be conducted entirely within a fully enclosed approved
       building except those uses deemed by the City to be customarily and appropriately
       conducted in the open.
                                                                                              Page | 1
        a. Uses which qualify for this exception include vegetation nurseries, home
            improvement centers with lumber, outdoor cafes, outdoor retail display, car wash
            vacuums, auto dealerships, and similar uses.
        b. Approved temporary uses, such as Christmas tree lots, shall be exempt from this
            requirement.
2.   Outdoor Display
        a. All retail product displays shall be located under the buildings’ permanent roof
            structure or on designated display pads within front landscape areas.
        b. All display areas shall be clearly defined on the approved Site Plan and
            designated on the site with a contrasting colored, painted, or striped surface.
        c. Display areas shall not block building entries or exits, pedestrian walks, or
            parking spaces in front of the building. Outdoor display areas shall not spill into
            walkways or any drive aisle adjacent to a building.
        d. Seasonal uses outside of these areas may be approved through the Temporary
            Commercial Use process.
3.   Outdoor Storage Standards:
        a. Outdoor storage areas shall be located to minimize views from adjacent public
            rights-of-way, residential development or zones, and adjacent developments.
            They shall be located behind or to the side of buildings.
        b. Outdoor storage shall be screened from public view. Screening shall consist of a
            solid wall, excluding CMU blocks. Screening shall be a minimum of 6 feet high
            and may reach a maximum height of 20 feet subject to approval by the City.
            Chain link fencing is prohibited.
        c. The method of screening shall be architecturally integrated with the adjacent
            building in terms of materials and colors.
        d. A landscape strip with a minimum width of seven (7) feet shall be installed next
            to the screening fence or wall when the storage area is adjacent to or visible
            from a public right-of-way.
        e. Outdoor storage materials must be stored in an orderly manner such that fire
            codes are met and access to all areas of the yard is possible (e.g. access lanes).
        f. The outdoor storage materials may not extend above the height of the fence or
            wall.
4.   Off-street Truck Loading Space. Every structure involving the receipt or distribution by
     vehicles of materials or merchandise shall provide and maintain on the building’s lot
     adequate space for standing, loading, and unloading of the vehicles in order to avoid
     undue interference with public use of streets, required parking stalls, or accessible stalls.
5.   Screening of Storage & Loading Areas
        a. To alleviate the unsightly appearance of loading facilities, these areas shall not be
            located on the side(s) of the building facing the public street(s). Such facilities
            shall be located interior to the site. This does not apply to Municipal Buildings.
        b. Screening for storage and loading areas shall be composed of 6 foot high solid
            masonry or architectural precast concrete walls with opaque gates and self-
            latching mechanisms, to keep gates closed when not in use. Bollards are required
            at the front of the masonry walls to protect the enclosure from trash collection
            vehicles.

                                                                                           Page | 2
         c. Gates shall be made of solid material, and opaque or slatted fencing or material
             shall not be permitted.
         d. The method of screening shall be architecturally integrated with the adjacent
             building in terms of materials and colors.
         e. Trash areas shall be designed to include the screening of large items (e.g. skids
             and pallets) as well as the trash bin(s) that are needed for the business (unless
             storage is otherwise accommodated behind required screened storage areas).
   6. Buffers.
         a. A wall and landscaping, fencing, or landscaping of acceptable design shall
             effectively screen the borders of any commercial or industrial lot which abuts an
             existing agricultural or platted residential use. Such a wall, fence, or landscaping
             shall be at least six feet in height, unless a wall or fence of a different height is
             required by the City as part of a site Plan review. Such wall, fence, or landscaping
             shall be maintained in good condition with no advertising thereon.
         b. No chain link or wood fences are permitted as buffering or screening between
             commercial and residential. Masonry and solid vinyl are suggested types of
             fences, and as circumstances require, one or the other may be required.
         c. Unless otherwise required by this Title, walls or fences used as a buffer or screen
             shall not be less than six feet in height.
         d. Fence height shall be measured from the highest adjacent finished grade on
             either side of the fence. Finished grade shall be measured at a point three (3) feet
             from property line.
   7. Parking Lot Buffers.
         a. There shall be a minimum of 10 feet of landscaping between parking areas and
             side and rear property lines adjacent to residential land uses.
   8. Building Buffer: No building shall be closer than five feet from any private road,
      driveway, or parking space. The intent of this requirement is to provide for building
      foundation landscaping and to provide protection to the building. Exceptions may be
      made for any part of the building that may contain an approved drive-up window.

4. Architectural Design Standards.
The following standards are applicable to all new or amended non-residential development.
   1. Four-sided architecture.
          a. All sides of a building that are open to public view (including views from adjacent
              residential dwellings or probable location of residential dwellings) shall receive
              equal architectural design consideration as the building front.
   2. Colors and materials.
          a. Exterior Building Materials shall be considered any materials that make up the
              exterior envelope of the building and shall be limited to no more than four and no
              less than two types of materials per building. The roof shall not be considered
              exterior building materials.
          b. Color of exterior building materials (excluding accent colors) shall be limited to
              no more than four and no less than two major colors per development. The roof
              shall not be considered a material or color.
          c. Bright colors, such as neon or fluorescent colors, bright orange or yellow, and
                                                                                            Page | 3
           primary colors, are only permitted as accent colors.
       d. No more than 75 percent of any building elevation shall consist of any one
           material or color, except in the C-D zone as noted below. The roof shall
           not be considered a material or color.
     e. A wainscot of a minimum of 30 inches of compliant material shall be provided,
         except below windows.
     f. Architectural metal may be used on exterior building elevations, but may not
         constitute more than 10% of a building façade.
3. Prohibited materials.
       a. Patterned stucco as a masonry substitute.
       b. Wood as a primary exterior finish material.
       c. Vinyl or aluminum siding
       d. Uncolored and/or unfinished CMU block except as an accent material.
       e. Corrugated metal or similar material, and “rusted’ or otherwise distressed look metal.
       f. Precast cement walls for developments are only acceptable if covered by brick,
           brick veneer, approved stone/rock or an approved masonry component. Such types
           of walls are also acceptable where the brick, stone/rock or approved masonry
           patterns are integrated into the exterior side of the wall. Exceptions may be made
           for areas not normally visible to public streets, parking areas or public access areas.
4. Roofline
     a. Parapet walls may not span more than 50 linear feet without variation in height or
         depth.
5. Cohesion / Consistency
     a. New or renovated commercial buildings in an existing center or development for
         which a site plan was previously approved, or as determined by the City, shall
         include and identify at least two (2) major elements of consistency with the
         surrounding approved center, including primary materials and architectural features.
         Site plan approval shall include review and approval of these elements.
     b. New or renovated standalone buildings (not previously part of an approved center or
         development) shall include and identify at least one element of consistency with
         adjacent and surrounding commercial buildings
     c. Approval by the Land Use Authority may include a review of the original center
         approvals and requirements.

6. All attached exterior utility boxes and equipment, roof drains, conduit and piping,
   maintenance stairs and ladders, and other similar elements shall be painted or
   otherwise treated to be consistent with underlying/adjacent material colors.
7. To the extent possible, all electric panels and communication equipment should be
   located in an interior equipment room.
8. Mechanical Equipment.
       a. All mechanical equipment shall be located or screened and other measures shall
           be taken so as to shield visibility of such equipment from any public or private
           streets, and screening methods and materials must be approved be approved as
           part of Site Plan approval.
       b. Wing walls, screens, or other enclosures shall be integrated into the building and
                                                                                          Page | 4
              landscaping of the site, whether located on the ground or roof.
           c. Rooftops of buildings shall be free of any mechanical equipment unless
              completely screened from all horizontal points of view.
           d. Screening materials shall conform to the color scheme and materials of the
              primary building.

5. Riverton City Downtown (C-D Zone), Additional Standards.
In addition to the requirements of this Chapter, developments in the Commercial Downtown Zone
shall be subject to the additional standards below:
    1. “Additional Architectural Standards.
            a. Commercial development or redevelopment within the C-D Zone shall include
                and identify at least two (2) of the following:
                   i.   Arch features over doorways, windows, etc
                   ii. Decorative block or brick quoins
                   iii. Columns or column-like architectural features
                   iv. Keystones over doorways or windows
                   v. Brick accent walls
                   vi. Pitched roofs
                   vii. Awnings or canopies
            b. New or renovated buildings shall include a minimum of 20% brick or stone
                consistent with surrounding development.
            c. Buildings where brick constitutes more than 75% percent of a structure may
                be permitted.

6. Areas Addressed by Development Agreement
Architectural standards for project areas where a development agreement or similar instrument have
been approved shall be governed by the terms, conditions, and standards of that development
agreement. Where the development agreement is silent, or as dictated by the terms of that
agreement, the requirements of this chapter shall apply relative to building architecture and design.




                                                                                             Page | 5
