                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               FEBRUARY 27, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Darren Park, Chair                               Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Monique Beck                                     Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                      Lisa Halversen, Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Crystal Keele                                    Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Evan Matheson
Troy Rushton

1.            CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Darren Park called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

Tim Peery led the Pledge of Allegiance.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “PEERY CUP-STR”, PLZ-25-2005, AN APPLICATION FOR A
              CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A SHORT-TERM RENTAL IN A
              RESIDENCE LOCATED AT 1944 WEST 12960 SOUTH. APPLICANTS –
              TIM AND SINDA PEERY.

Planner Lisa Halversen presented the Staff Report and reported that the Applicants have an
internal accessory dwelling unit they would like to use as a short-term rental. Their adult
children are in the military and will use the unit when they are home. A short-term rental fits
their family’s needs as it can be available when their children are home. The property is on
a 0.25-acre lot in the R-4 single-family zone. The split-level house was built in 1960 and is
approximately 1700 square feet above grade with a 675-square-foot basement. It has a
two-car attached carport, and the rental unit is accessed by a door at the rear of the carport.
The Applicants are aware of all short-term rental requirements and intend to abide by them.
Notices were sent to neighboring property owners, and no comments were received.

The Applicant, Tim Peery, stated that they prefer using the unit as a short-term rental
because their two sons are in the Navy, and they would like to have a place for them and
their families to stay when they visit. In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon,
Mr. Peery clarified that they would close the unit to rentals when their sons are in town.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              2
February 27, 2025


Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-25-2005, “Peery Short-Term Rental” to be located at 1944 West 12960 South, with
the following conditions:

      1.     The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all
             applicable Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, specifically the City
             Home Occupation Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire
             Codes.

      2.     Short-term rental must be operated within the rules and regulations for
             Short-Term Rentals as described in Riverton City Code 18.190.051.

      3.     Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.

      4.     Applicant shall surrender Applicant’s Conditional Use Permit for short-
             term rental use of the subject property in the event Applicant undertakes
             any other business activity on the subject property, or the Applicant shall
             reapply for a Conditional Use Permit for a short-term rental in a manner
             which takes into account the other business activity.

      5.     Applicant shall disclose all Applicant’s advertising materials, whether
             provided to listing agencies or otherwise made available to potential
             customers and shall semi-annually update City staff of any changes to
             said advertising materials.

      6.     There may be no more than eight combined renters and guests (non-
             permanent residents) on the property at any given time.

Commissioner Matheson seconded the motion.                The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

      B.     “HERCULES CREDIT UNION,” PLZ-24-8018, AN APPLICATION FOR A
             FINAL COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN TO BE LOCATED AT 1242 WEST 12600
             SOUTH. APPLICANT – BRETT COATS.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and indicated that the subject
property is located on the east side of the City in the Commercial Gateway (“C-G”) Zone.
An aerial map of the Riverton Market Subdivision was displayed indicating the Walmart
Neighborhood Market to the east of the property and Arctic Circle and Chubby’s to the west.
Other properties in the subdivision were developed between 1994 and 2015, and the
remaining parcels remained undeveloped. Hercules Credit Union is currently located in a
multitenant building on 12600 South and will be moving to this standalone site. The lot they
purchased includes the entire driveway for Walmart, so the net usable acreage is decreased.
Mr. Prestwich noted that they also had to plan for the potential future widening of 12600
South.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
February 27, 2025


Notices were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property, and no
comments were received.

The Site Plan was reviewed. The single-story building will be approximately 1,800 square
feet, with grade and depth changes. The single drive-through can accommodate a line of
12 cars. It was noted that the drive-through is a Conditional Use in the zone to limit the
effect of speakers and lights on nearby residential properties. In this case, the building is
approximately 400 feet from the nearest residential property. There will be 12 parking stalls.

The site meets all City requirements for setbacks, lot coverage, and landscaping. Waterwise
landscaping will include 14 trees. The building exterior will be a mixture of brick, stone, and
stucco, and the sloped roof will consist of shingles with metal accents. The design ties into
the unique look of the existing structures in the area. The three requirements met by the
design are brick accent walls, columns, and include the use of natural brick or stone.
Lighting will be shielded from adjoining properties.

Commissioner Cluff asked about the materials used on the copper-colored section of the
roof. Mr. Prestwich indicated that it will be metal, which is an allowed material. The only
prohibited roofing material is wood shake or cedar shingles.

In response to a question, Mr. Prestwich reported that no fencing is required for the site due
to its distance from residential areas. The vacant parcel to the west of the subject property
is also commercial.

Commissioner Matheson asked about ownership of the entrance to Walmart. Mr. Prestwich
clarified that it is an internal access driveway and is wholly owned by the commercial
subdivision. The City has no responsibility for it. In response to a follow-up question, Mr.
Prestwich stated that there are stop signs on the northeast corner of that private drive and
the Hercules Credit Union access will be separated from that corner to reduce conflicts.
Because it is an internal access, any issues would be worked out by the ownership group,
not the City.

Brett Blackburn, CEO of Hercules Credit Union, stated that they have been in Riverton for
10 years and are excited for the opportunity to build on the property and remain in the City
long term. Chair Park stated that the parcel has been vacant for a long time, and it will be
nice to see it developed. He is glad they will be staying in the community.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Beck moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-24-8018, Commercial Site Plan for “Hercules First Federal Credit Union” located
at 1242 West 12600 South, with the following conditions:

       1.     Site Plan Improvements and Building shall be consistent with the plans
              presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                4
February 27, 2025



       2.     Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

       3.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with the Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances and with the recommendations of the
              Riverton City Engineer.

       4.     The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
              Management Plan according to Riverton City Standards and Ordinances.

       5.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction grading on the site.

       6.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
              Fire Codes.

       7.     The Applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

       8.     Rooftop mechanical shall be screened.

       9.     Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

       10.    The dumpster enclosure shall have solid gates, and the gates and
              enclosure shall be of similar color and materials to the building.

Commissioner Rushton seconded the motion.                 The motion passed with the
unanimous consent of the Commission.

       C.     “MYLER CARWASH”, PLZ-25-8003, AN APPLICATION TO AMEND A
              COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN BY ADDING LED ACCENT LIGHTING TO A
              CARWASH LOCATED AT 5171 WEST 13400 SOUTH. APPLICANT-
              MITCHELL MYLER.

Ms. Halversen presented the Staff Report and indicated that the Applicant had amended the
Site Plan to add accent lighting to the carwash as allowed by the recently updated
Commercial Lighting Code. An aerial map was displayed indicating that the property is
adjacent to Towne Storage in the Monarch Meadows subdivision. The carwash was built in
2006 on a 0.80-acre lot and is zoned S-P Commercial. Ms. Halversen noted that the lighting
colors would change with the season.

Per City Code § 18.135.200: Commercial Lighting:

   •   Commercial holiday lighting is defined as exterior lighting strips, clusters, or groups
       with output per lamp or bulb not greater than 15 lumens.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   5
February 27, 2025


   •   It is a permitted use in all commercial zones, but can only be permanently installed if
       approved as part of the Site Plan.

   •   If the structure is within 100 feet of a residential property, the lighting must be turned
       off by 10:00 p.m.

   •   Display of this lighting outside of holidays is only allowed if approved as part of a
       Commercial Site Plan.

Ms. Halversen reported that most properties in the vicinity of the subject property are
commercial. Some residential units are within 300 feet of the property, including on the other
side of 13400 South, so the sample motion included the requirement to turn off the lights by
10:00 p.m.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Ms. Halversen confirmed that all lighting indicated
in the Lighting Plan would be on the front of the building facing 13400 South. No lighting
was indicated for the rear of the building.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the lights were allowed to move. Ms. Halversen stated that
flashing or moving lights have additional restrictions if they are located within 100 feet of
residences, but the carwash is approximately 250 feet from a residential area. The
requirement to turn them off by 10:00 p.m. should help avoid any issues.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Ms. Halversen reported that the
“dates indicated herein” referenced in the Staff Report are the holidays listed in the
Commercial Lighting Code. In response to a follow-up question, she confirmed that approval
of the amended Site Plan would allow the business to have lighting all year.

Ms. Halversen stated that notices were sent to the addresses included in the circled area on
the notice. Mr. Prestwich added that the common area for the homes across the street was
included in the noticing area, so the Homeowner’s Association received notice but not
individual homes.

The Applicant, Mitch Myler, stated that he hoped to brighten the appearance of the old
carwash to make it more attractive and create more revenue. The lighting would be subtle
and appropriate for the area. He plans to rebrand the carwash to match one he owns in
Sandy.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing
was closed.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE
Application PLZ-25-8003 “Myler Carwash” amending the Site Plan of the existing
commercial building located at 5171 West 13400 South, with the following conditions:
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              6
February 27, 2025


      1.     Lighting modifications will be harmonious with the existing building and
             match the submitted plans presented to the Commission.

      2.     Accent lighting must be turned off by 10:00 p.m. nightly.

      3.     The lighting shall comply with all applicable terms of Riverton City Code
             Section 18.135.300: Commercial Lighting.

Chair Park opened the public hearing. There were no further public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

      D.     “MCKENZIE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT”, PLZ-25-4001, A PUBLIC
             HEARING FOR A REZONE AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
             BETWEEN RIVERTON CITY AND HOLLANDER HOLDINGS, LLC FOR
             APPROXIMATELY 5.63 ACRES OF PROPERTY LOCATED AT 12270
             SOUTH 4000 WEST, FROM R-3 (RESIDENTIAL LOW-DENSITY) TO C-R
             (REGIONAL COMMERCIAL) TO CONSTRUCT STORAGE UNITS.
             APPLICANT – KRISEL TRAVIS.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the Applicant presented information regarding the Development
Agreement at the last Planning Commission meeting, and the City was proceeding with an
abundance of caution on the item due to concerns that have arisen in the past. It was placed
on the evening’s Agenda to address any Planning Commission concerns and take public
comment, but Staff recommended that any questions on the Development Agreement itself
be deferred to a future meeting.

The subject property is on 4000 West near Bangerter Highway. The property was originally
platted as a subdivision but was never developed. There had been several attempts by
development groups to consider alternatives to develop within the existing Land Use, but
none came to fruition.

The American Land Title Association (“ALTA”) survey was reviewed showing improvements
that were made before the project was abandoned. A public right-of-way was dedicated but
never improved. The detention pond in the northeastern corner of the parcel was dedicated
to the City; it and its existing connections will be accommodated within the proposed plan.

The two existing homes that face 4000 West will remain. One lot on that frontage will be
preserved by the owner and accessed via a private lane. Staff has confirmed that the lot
can comply with all requirements and that the private lane will come before the Commission
as a separate Conditional Use Permit application.

The Applicant has proposed rezoning the project area to C-R. The access would be through
the current right-of-way, and the storage units would be developed in phases throughout the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 7
February 27, 2025


property. Landscaping, curb, gutter, sidewalk, and any necessary utilities will be installed
along the 4000 West road frontage, including in front of the existing homes. A solid masonry
fence will be installed between the homes and storage units. There is already fencing on
the north and south sides, and the buildings themselves will constitute the fencing along
Bangerter Highway.

Mr. Prestwich reported that because the application includes a zoning change, notices were
sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property to provide residents with
the opportunity to comment well in advance of the Commission’s decision. No public
comments or questions were received in response to the notice.

The Applicant, Krisel Travis, stated that nothing had changed since they last presented to
the Planning Commission, and she was present to listen to public comments and address
any questions or concerns.

Chair Park opened the public hearing.

Matt Yore stated that he lives north of the subject property on 4000 West and expressed
concern about the amount of traffic the business would bring to 4000 West. People normally
drive 10 to 15 miles per hour over the speed limit, and they will pass him in the center lane
when he slows down to pull into his driveway. Vehicles turning into the existing storage units
from the south have to wait for oncoming traffic, which often results in a backup, and it is
common to see people drive off the pavement to get around them. There is currently a large
pothole there as well. He is concerned that it will cause an accident. He asked if the center
lane would be extended to the intersection to accommodate people turning into the new
storage units and noted that the intersection of 4000 West and 12600 South gets backed up
during rush hour as well. He also asked if a traffic study had been conducted to determine
the impact of the new site.

Jared Hamilton stated that he is a local business owner who has owned the self-storage
facility next to the subject property for over a decade. His career is in building, buying, and
selling businesses, and he taught business analysis and investing at the university level in
Washington, D.C. He was concerned about the potential negative impact on the City. His
research indicates that the markets equalize with approximately six square feet of storage
space for the population base, but there is currently 13.46 square feet of available storage
space per population within one mile of the subject property. There are 11 facilities within a
four-mile radius of the property, and he believes there is too much capacity without enough
demand.

Mr. Hamilton’s property is one of the oldest in the market. After adding additional storage
space, it is now just under 70,000 square feet. When the new self-storage facility on 12600
South was constructed 0.8 miles away, his property dropped to 64% occupied, which is 30%
below the minimum standard for a bank loan. The neighboring facility is at 74%. His
property is in need of updates, and he planned to invest over $500,000 in it in 2026.
However, his profits have decreased by over 90%, and he cannot put $500,000 into his
property if he will not see a return on that investment. If the City allows additional self-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     8
February 27, 2025


storage units to be constructed, he believes the community will be overbuilt for 20 to 25
years. Investors will not want to put cash into their businesses and will end up with
dilapidated buildings, which will decrease property values and have a negative effect on the
entire community. He believes that Riverton is significantly overbuilt for self-storage and the
subject property should be developed for its current residential zoning. He provided his
calculations to Mr. Prestwich for distribution to the Commission.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the Planning Commission would be acting in a legal or
administrative role on the Development Agreement. City Attorney, Ryan Carter, reported
that their principal role would be legislative, but site planning is also an administrative action.
Pieces of the Site Plan could be carved out as exceptions to the prevailing Code, which
would be a legislative decision. Otherwise, they would be determining if the plan complies
with Code. In response to a follow-up question, it was confirmed that a courtesy notice
would be sent to the same noticing area indicating that the public hearing is still open.

In response to a question, it was clarified that there are no plans to widen 4000 West. The
City must consider where the traffic is generated from; widening a road does not necessarily
solve the problem and can often just move the problem elsewhere. If the problem is
speeding and cars turning left, it is more difficult to turn left across two lanes than one.
Mr. Prestwich noted that the property on the opposite side of 4000 West is an open field. If
additional space is needed within the right-of-way, it will likely come from that property. It is
planned that 4000 West will connect to 4150 West. Additional width may be introduced as
part of that connection when the open field is developed. Commissioner Rushton stated
that he believed they need to further consider the matter because taking all the necessary
land from the west side would have a severe negative impact on homes that have been
there for a long time.

Commissioner Rushton asked for Mr. Carter’s guidance on how to consider a property’s
negative impact on adjacent properties. He noted that the C-R Zone allows a height of up
to 80 feet. If the Development Agreement provided that height option, it would block the
views for future development at the Butterfield property. Mr. Carter clarified that they could
consider whether or not the proposed development is consistent with the character of the
surrounding community. However, before they reach that conclusion, they would need to
obtain enough data to assess what that visual impact would be. They could call attention to
it or raise the concern in their recommendation to the City Council, but there would have to
be substantial data to recommend denial on that basis alone. Mr. Prestwich clarified that
the proposed Development Agreement will include limitations on the maximum height and
placement of elements on the site.

Commission Rushton noted that rezoning the property from R-3 to C-R is reasonable
because the properties to the south are zoned C-R. He asked about lot coverage, as the
renderings showed zero lot lines but setbacks in the proposed zone are 40 feet for the front
and 20 feet for the sides and rear. Mr. Prestwich reported that City Code includes
accommodations for facilities like storage units where the buildings form the perimeter and
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
February 27, 2025


fencing. The typical layout for storage units is to have the buildings on the property line.
The buildings on the perimeter would have a zero lot line, but the frontage along 4000 West
would have a standard setback. In response to an additional question from Commissioner
Rushton, Mr. Prestwich reported that the Development Agreement was functioning as a
substantially more complex Specific Development District.

Regarding traffic volume, it was noted that the Applicant intends to develop in several
phases. With typical operation, the facility will generate approximately 12 trips per weekday
and 36 trips per day on Saturdays, which is a very low traffic volume. The nature of storage
facilities is that people do not visit them often once their property is stored. It will not
exacerbate any existing traffic issues on 4000 West and will have a significantly lower impact
than a residential use on the property. As future decisions are made on 4000 West, they
will be made with the intention of improving the overall traffic health of the roadway.

Mr. Prestwich expressed his appreciation for Mr. Hamilton’s comments and stated that the
information he provided would be helpful to the Applicant as well.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, it was reported that the average
number of trips is nine per day for residences, and the storage facility would generate
approximately 12 total trips per weekday. A traffic study will be completed to determine
actual numbers.

Commissioner Cannon stated a resident complained on social media about allowing a
second Burger King in Riverton, but there are six coffee shops between 3600 West and
5600 West, two of which are within 250 feet of each other. He believes competition is good.
The property has been for sale since 2006 or 2007, and many people have failed to find the
highest and best use for it. The owners of the two homes on 4000 West will be most affected
by the development, but they were not present at the meeting, which he believed indicated
that they were not opposed to it. Mr. Prestwich reported that the neighboring property
owners have been involved in the process. The southern lot owner had an accessory
structure that straddled the parking line, and the owner and Applicant worked through a
process with the Board of Adjustment to relocate that structure. They also negotiated to
retain the undeveloped northern lot as part of their holdings. They have been very involved
with the Applicant and City. He believed they were not present at the meeting because their
concerns had been addressed.

Chair Park referred to Commissioner Cannon’s point about multiples of the same types of
businesses and asked if there should be consideration for saturation of a specific type of
business. Property owners have rights, but should the business development aspect be
considered. It was noted that it is a difficult consideration to make. Zoning restricts the
number of certain types of businesses, but that is generally based on concerns beyond the
specific business. For example, there are limitations on tobacco retailers because of the
identified concern for public harm. There are population-based limitations on check-cashing
businesses and distance limitations on gas stations. Outside of those examples, the
challenge to those considerations in Land Use decisions is that they can be subjective and
time-sensitive. The market may be oversaturated today, but it could change in either
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                          10
February 27, 2025


direction in the future. There would need to be very specific and direct data on which to
base such a decision. Based on that data, changes would likely be required to City
Ordinance, as was done in the examples he listed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission CONTINUE Application
PLZ-25-4001, a public hearing for a rezone and Development Agreement between
Riverton City and Hollander Holdings, LLC for approximately 5.63 acres of property
located at 12270 South 4000 West, from R-3 (Residential Low-Density) to C-R
(Regional Commercial) to the March 13, 2025 Planning Commission Meeting.

Chair Park seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.     MINUTES APPROVAL – FEBRUARY 13, 2025.

Chair Park moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of February 13, 2025, as presented. Commissioner
Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:52 PM.
