                                 MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            December 11, 2025
Subject:         “Timberline Development Agreement” Approximately 4.24 Acres Located
                 at 13518 & 13506 S Redwood Road Currently Zoned RR-22& C-N,
                 Development Agreement Includes Rezone to R-M-8 and General Plan update
                 to Medium High-Density Residential, Preliminary Site Plan, and Terms and
                 Conditions of Development, Randy Smith, Fieldstone Homes- Applicant.


This application is a public hearing and legislative action item.
In rendering a decision, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative function, decisions are based on reasonably
debatable evidence. The Planning Commission is making a recommendation to the City Council which has final decision
authority for rezone applications.

Proposed Motion:
I move the Planning Commission table the proposed Timberline Development Agreement for
property located at 13518 & 13506 S Redwood Road, pending input from the City Council,
including on adjacent road connections:

Background

This item is a public hearing for a Development Agreement. Per Utah State Code, a development
agreement can be approved under the same process as a rezone, as a development agreement can
set development standards, restrictions, and allowances similar to zoning.

The property in question is approximately 4.24 acres located at 13518 S & 13506 S Redwood Road.
The properties are currently zoned Commercial Neighborhood and RR-22. The surrounding
properties are zoned RR-22.

The applicant is proposing small lot single-family development on the property, with the proposed
zoning at RM-8. That zone is allows for multi-family attached dwellings, but the applicant is including
a proposed development agreement with provisions limiting the development to single family
detached units on individual lots of at least 3,000 square feet (approximately 1/7 of an acre).
The Development Agreement as proposed includes development standards and architectural
renderings of the buildings. The proposed private interior roadway is shown at twenty (20) feet wide.
Riverton City’s roadway standards does not include a road cross-section of that width though it could
be allowed under a Development Agreement. Twenty (20) feet is a minimum standard the Unified
Fire Code will allow but with no parking allowed on either side of the roadway. As there are
individual lots the developer is proposing a minimum driveway setback of 20 feet.

The property has two existing roadways which stub to the property. 1775 West on the north side,
and 13550 South on the west. However, only the north half of 13550 South would be directly
accessible from the site, as it connects to the property at a shared boundary line between this site
and the property to the south. The applicant has proposed not connecting the development to 13550
South, but leaving space for that roadway to connect to the property to the south in the future. A
public right-of-way is proposed connecting 1775 West to Redwood Road. This configuration would
shift any connection of 13550 South to Redwood Road closer the intersection of Redwood Road and
Western Charm Drive, and also eliminates any potential for shared access and roadways between
this proposed project and future development to the south. In addition, both 1775 West and 13550
South do not currently have curb, gutter, and sidewalk, which raises concerns about pedestrian
access and parking on those adjacent roadways.

In addition to the proposed zoning, conceptual layout, and development and architectural standards,
the proposed project brings into question the current and future roadway network in this area,
including the potential future connection of 13550 South to Redwood Road and the current
connection of 1775 South to Redwood Road. To allow the Planning Commission to review the
proposed application in depth, but also to review it in context of direction from the City Council
regarding the roadway connections and potential interconnection between current, proposed, and
future development, staff is proposing that public comment be taken as noticed at this hearing, the
Commission hear input from the applicant and any requested information or response from Staff, and
then that the item be tabled pending a planned work session discussion on the site with the City
Council in January.



Public Notices and Response
Notices were sent to all property owners within 1,000 feet of this site and posted on the City’s
webpage. Staff received public comment related to the development, which is included below.

Attachments
The following items are attached:

       1.   Submitted application.
       2.   Area Photos
       3.   Area Zoning Map.
       4.   Area General Plan Map.
       5.   Site plan, architectural renderings, and other submitted information.
       6.   Draft Development Agreement
    Recorder             Parcel Search Viewer         SLCO Recorder Website


+      Find address or place           
–




                 200ft
                 200ft      -111.935 40.504 Degrees
TIMBERLINE - CONCEPT PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lot: 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRECAST CONCRETE WALL
                                             Lot: 27




                                                                                                                                                                                                 PRIVATE ALLEY
                                                                 Lot: 28             Lot: 29               Lot: 30


                                                                                                                                                  54' PUBLIC ROW
                                                                 20' PRIVATE ALLEY (FL-FL)
                                                                 ROLLOVER CURB AND GUTTER                                                                                                                        Lot: 2



                                                       Lot: 26             Lot: 25             Lot: 24           Lot: 23       Lot: 22       Lot: 21       Lot: 20            Lot: 19




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REDWOOD ROAD
  SITE ENGINEERING MAY DICTATE THE
  STORM WATER AREA BE LOCATED ON
ANOTHER PART OF THE SITE. LOTS MAY                     Lot: 11             Lot: 12             Lot: 13           Lot: 14       Lot: 15       Lot: 16       Lot: 17            Lot: 18
 BE ADJUSTED TO ACCOMMODATE THE
                    FINAL LOCATION

                                                                                                         20' PRIVATE ALLEY (FL-FL)
                                                                                                     ROLLOVER CURB AND GUTTER

                     ROW DEDICATION    STORMWATER
                    FOR FUTURE ROAD       AREA
                                                                   Lot: 10              Lot: 9               Lot: 8        Lot: 7        Lot: 6        Lot: 5        Lot: 4             Lot: 3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT TYPICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SETBACKS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50.0'
                                      FU
                                        TU
                                           RE                                                                                                                                                                               REAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REAR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8.0'
                                                PU
                                                   BLIC
                                                          RO
                                                            W                                                                                                                                                              10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          STREET              5.0'             5.0'                  5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIDE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            72.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FRONT                                   FRONT
CONCEPT / SAMPLE HOUSE ELEVATIONS

             ALPINE




             ASPEN
CONCEPT / SAMPLE HOUSE ELEVATIONS

          COPPERHEAD




           CRESCENT
Architectural Design Standards – Timberline Subdivision, Riverton, Utah

1. Purpose and Intent
The intent of these standards is to establish a cohesive architectural character for the
Timberline development that both complements Riverton’s historic residential fabric along
Redwood Road and reflects the design expectations of modern homebuyers. Homes within
Timberline shall balance heritage-inspired architectural elements—such as large porches,
prominent columns, and human-scaled detailing—with contemporary forms, materials, and
layouts that meet current lifestyle and sustainability standards.

2. Architectural Character
The Timberline architectural theme shall draw inspiration from Riverton’s early 20th-
century rural and craftsman-style homes, while integrating modern proportions and
building technologies. Homes shall reflect a modern farmhouse and prairie-influenced
design, characterized by:

   •   Low- to moderate-pitched rooflines with extended overhangs.
   •   Vertical and horizontal siding compositions that emphasize clean lines.
   •   Simple yet substantial trim details framing windows, doors, and porch elements.

Ornamentation shall be understated, relying on form, proportion, and material variation
rather than excessive detailing.

3. Architectural Style: Modern Farmhouse and Prairie Influences
Homes within the Timberline Subdivision shall embody a modern farmhouse and prairie-
inspired architectural style. This approach is defined by rooflines that are low to
moderately pitched and feature extended overhangs, contributing to both functionality and
visual appeal. The exterior composition will utilize a combination of vertical and horizontal
siding, establishing clean, linear aesthetics that reinforce the home's contemporary
character while referencing traditional forms.

Architectural detailing will remain intentionally simple yet substantial. Trim elements will
frame windows, doors, and porch features in a manner that is robust without being ornate,
ensuring a strong sense of proportion and structure. Ornamentation will be understated,
with the design emphasis placed on form, proportion, and thoughtful variation in materials
rather than on excessive decorative details. This cohesive approach balances modern
expectations with the heritage-inspired character of the Timberline development.

4. Massing and Roof Forms
Roof forms shall consist of simple gables, hips, or low-slope shed elements, consistent with
historic Riverton roof profiles. Homes may include two-story massing, but upper floors shall
be visually softened through:
   •   Step-backs, porch extensions, or material changes.
   •   Variation in eave lines to reduce vertical dominance.

Roof pitches shall range between 4:12 and 7:12, promoting a flatter appearance consistent
with Redwood Road’s historic architecture. Eaves shall include a minimum 12-inch
overhang, with exposed or detailed soffits encouraged.

5. Porches and Columns
Each home shall incorporate a prominent covered front porch as a defining design element.
Porches shall be functional and inviting, with a minimum depth of 6 feet. Porch supports
shall be substantial in scale, drawing from traditional Riverton homes, and may include:

   •   Square or tapered columns on masonry or composite bases.
   •   Paired column arrangements where appropriate to accentuate entries.

Porch roofs may be integrated into the main roof or expressed as separate lower-pitch
elements.

6. Garages
Garages shall be integrated into the architectural massing and subordinate to the primary
façade where feasible. Where front-loaded garages are used, visual emphasis shall remain
on the entry and porch elements through:

   •   Overhanging roofs, material contrast, or inset positioning.
   •   Architectural detailing such as vertical trim boards or recessed panels.

Garage doors shall be muted in color and designed to complement the primary materials
and trim colors of the home.

7. Exterior Materials and Colors
Acceptable materials include:

   •   Vertical board and batten siding (fiber cement, engineered wood, or equivalent).
   •   Horizontal lap siding. (fiber cement, engineered wood, or equivalent)
   •   Accent panels or trim in composite, fiber cement, or wood-look finishes.
   •   Limited use of masonry at porch bases or foundation skirts.
   •   Roofing Materials shall consist of minimum 30-yr architectural shingles.

Materials shall be durable, low-maintenance, and compatible with Utah’s climate. Color
palettes are in place to keep the community looking timeless, cohesive, and true to its
architectural character. Exterior colors should enhance the overall neighborhood aesthetic
and complement nearby homes rather than compete with them.

Approved color palettes include classic, neutral tones; shades of white, cream, gray,
taupe, navy and charcoal with optional black or wood-tone accents.
To maintain a consistent and balanced streetscape, bold or non-traditional colors such as
pink, brown, green, blue, or purple are not permitted.

8. Windows and Doors
Windows shall be vertically oriented, with divided light patterns or simple mullion
configurations encouraged. Grouped window arrangements may be used to create rhythm
and accentuate façade symmetry. Front entry doors shall be wood or high-quality
composite in natural or painted finishes consistent with the overall palette. Transom or
sidelights may be included for scale and light.

9. Elevation Diversity
To ensure architectural variety:

   •   No two adjacent homes may have identical front elevations, color palettes, or roof
       forms.
   •   A minimum of two elevation variations shall be provided for each floor plan type.
   •   Material and color rotations shall be employed to create visual interest along the
       streetscape.

10. Construction Quality and Review
All homes shall meet or exceed current International Residential Code (IRC) standards and
local Riverton City design guidelines. Materials shall be installed per manufacturer
specifications and good building practice.

11. Compatibility Statement
The Timberline architectural program acknowledges the historic residential heritage of
Redwood Road, adapting its defining elements — deep porches, large columns, and
horizontal emphasis — into a modern interpretation suitable for today’s housing needs.
This approach honors Riverton’s architectural legacy while providing high-quality, energy-
efficient homes consistent with contemporary buyer expectations and community identity.
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:
Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar
c/o Brent N. Bateman
1557 Innovation Way, Ste 400
Lehi, UT 84043


                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                          FOR
                                     TIMBERLINE
                                    In Riverton, Utah


         THIS DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is entered into on this _____
day of ________________, 2025 (“Effective Date”), by FSH Timberline LLC, a Utah limited
liability company (“Developer”), and Riverton City, a political subdivision of the State of Utah
(“City”). City and Developer are the “Parties” to this Agreement, and individually each is a
“Party” hereto.

                                           RECITALS

        A.      Developer owns certain parcels known by Salt Lake County Tax ID numbers 33-
03-128-016, 33-03-126-127, and 33-03-128-019, together approximately 4.2 acres, located in
City, and legally described on the attached and incorporated Exhibit A (“Property”);

       B.       Developer desires to develop the Property into a 30 single family detached
residential unit subdivision (“Project”) to be known as Timberline, as generally depicted on the
concept plan (“Concept Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein. The
Concept Plan includes sample home elevations for reference purposes.

         C.    City desires to cooperate with Developer to permit development of the Project.

        D.      The Parties agree that a commercial zoning designation for the Property, as
existed prior to the adoption of this Agreement, does not align with the best interests of Riverton
City. Therefore, prior to the adoption of this Agreement, City adopted the RM-8 (Medium
Residential) zoning designation on the Property. The RM-8 zone shall apply to the Project,
except to the extent that the terms of this Agreement supersede or modify the provisions of the
RM-8 zone, in which case this Agreement will control.

      E.      This Agreement shall permit development of the Project in accordance with the
Concept Plan, which Concept Plan is attached hereto and expressly included as part of this
Agreement. This Agreement has been adopted by City through a legislative process.

       F.       The Parties desire to enter into this Agreement to more fully specify the rights and
responsibilities of Developer to develop the Project as expressed in this Agreement and the
Concept Plan, and the rights and responsibilities of City to allow and regulate such development
pursuant to the requirements of this Agreement, the Concept Plan, and all other applicable laws.


UC_6674131.1
             NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing recitals (which recitals are
     incorporated into this Agreement) and the covenants hereafter set forth in this Agreement, the
     sufficiency of which the Parties hereby acknowledge, the Parties agree as follows:

                                                AGREEMENT

     1.       Interpretation. Whenever in this Agreement:

       1.1. the consent or approval of any person is required, such consent or approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, unless expressly provided to the contrary;

        1.2. there is a reference to “days,” such reference shall be deemed to be to “calendar days”
unless the phrase “business days” is expressly stated;

        1.3. the date on which any payment or performance is due under this Agreement is not a
business day, such payment or performance shall be due on the immediately following business day;
and
        1.4. there appears a reference to a consent, approval, description, designation, estimate,
notice, request, demand, response, statement, warning, correspondence, Agreement, schedule or other
communication, such reference shall be deemed to require the same to be in writing, unless otherwise
expressly stated.

     2.       Zoning & Vesting.

        2.1. Following adoption of this Agreement by City, the Property will vest as to the provisions
of this Agreement, the other City ordinances in place as of the Effective Date, and the Concept Plan,
all without further action or approval by City. City acknowledges that approval of this Agreement
includes approval of the Concept Plan, and developer is vested in the right to develop the Project in
substantial conformance with this Agreement, the Concept Plan, and City ordinances in place as of the
Effective Date.

         2.2. The Parties intend that the rights granted to Developer and the entitlements for the Project
under this Agreement are both contractual and provided under the common law concept of vested
rights and pursuant to UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509. To the extent this Agreement and Concept Plan
conflict with City ordinances, the terms of this Agreement and Concept Plan shall control, having
received legislative approval by City. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted to deprive City of
its legislative authority nor interfere with a City’s police power.

        2.3. In accordance with Utah vesting laws, laws and ordinances adopted by City after the
Effective Date (“City’s Future Laws”) shall not apply to the Project, except as follows:

                    2.3.1.   City’s Future Laws that Developer agrees in writing apply to the Project;

                  2.3.2.      City’s Future Laws that are both generally applicable to all properties in
          the City’ jurisdiction and that are required in order to comply with state and federal laws and
          regulations affecting the Project;


     UC_6674131.1
                  2.3.3.     City’s development standards, engineering requirements, approval, and
          supplemental specifications applicable to public works, and any City’s Future Laws that are
          updates or amendments to existing building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, dangerous
          buildings, drainage, or similar construction or safety related codes, such as the International
          Building Code, the APWA Specifications, AAHSTO Standards, the Manual of Uniform
          Traffic Control Devices or similar standards that are generated by a nationally or statewide
          recognized construction/safety organization, or by the state or federal governments and are
          otherwise required to meet legitimate concerns related to public health, safety or welfare;

                 2.3.4.     Lawful taxes, or modifications thereto, provided that nothing in this
          Agreement shall be construed as waiving or limiting in any way Developer’s right to
          challenge taxes imposed by City, which right to challenge is hereby reserved;

                  2.3.5.     Changes to the amounts of utility rates, service fees or charges, or
          fees for the processing of Development Applications that are generally applicable to all
          development within City’s jurisdiction and that are adopted pursuant to state and local law.

                    2.3.6.   Changes authorized under Utah Code §10-9a-509, or its successor statutes.

     3.       Development of the Project.

        3.1. Developer may, but is not obligated to, develop the Project in phases. Developer reserves
discretion to determine when to develop a particular portion or phase of the Property based upon
Developer’s business judgment, provided that phasing shall follow a logical path allowing for
continuity and infrastructure connection between phases.

        3.2. The Concept Plan and elevations are understood by the Parties to be conceptual in nature
and sets forth only a potential layout for the Project. Developer may make minor modifications to the
Project’s layout and building designs depicted in the Concept Plan based on Developer’s business
judgment, provided that Developer does not increase residential density or introduce uses not
permitted. The elevations provided with the Concept Plan are samples and the Architectural Standards
attached hereto as Exhibit C in this Agreement control. Such modifications shall not be considered
material modifications and will not require amendment of this Agreement and may be approved by
City staff.

        3.3. Developer may elect to sell one or more portions of the Project to a sub-developer (“Sub-
developer”). Any portion of the Property (each a “Portion”) sold by Developer to a Sub-developer
shall include the transfer of the right and obligation to develop such Portion in accordance with this
Agreement and the Concept Plan.

     4.       Development Standards.

        4.1. The Parties intend that site development standards of the RM-8 zone apply to this Project,
except to the extent that the site development standards are modified in this Agreement, which




     UC_6674131.1
modifications are expressly approved by City, these standards apply in the locations shown in the site
plan:

                    4.1.1.    Single Family Detached homes are a permitted use

                    4.1.2.    Minimum lot area for a detached Dwelling: 3000 square feet;

                    4.1.3.    Minimum Front Yard & Garage Setback: 8 feet

                    4.1.4.    Minimum Side Yard Setback: 5 feet, or 10 feet between buildings

                    4.1.5.    Minimum Corner Lot Side Setback: 10 Feet

                    4.1.6.    Minimum Rear Yard Setback: 8 Feet

                    4.1.7.    Minimum Lot Width: 45 Feet.

                    4.1.8.    Minimum Lot Depth: 60 Feet.

                    4.1.9.    Minimum Private Yard space: 400 Square Feet

                 4.1.10.   Fencing: 6’ Vinyl Fence around perimeter of development and a
          decorative masonry or pre-cast concrete fence behind the homes directly adjacent to
          Redwood Road.

                    4.1.11.   No minimum Square Footage of Dwelling Units.

     5.       System Infrastructure.

        5.1. Developer shall be responsible for installation of system improvements and if
appropriate, dedication thereof to the public. To the extent that such improvements go beyond the
Project’s proportionate impact, the City shall assist Developer in obtaining reimbursement from
subsequent users, or provide credit for costs or fees to Developer for such facilities as required by the
rough proportionality test found in Utah State Law, UTAH CODE § 10-9a-508, and in the Nollan/Dolan
line of United States Supreme Court cases.

       5.2. The City shall not require the Developer to “upsize” any improvements (i.e., to construct
the improvements to a size larger than required to service the Project) unless suitable arrangements are
made in advance for reimbursement to Developer for costs beyond Developer’s proportionate share, as
determined in Developer’s reasonable discretion.

     6.       Default.

       6.1. If Developer, a Sub-developer, or a City fails to perform their respective obligations
hereunder or to comply with the terms hereof, the Party believing that a Default has occurred shall




     UC_6674131.1
provide Notice to the other Party. If a City believes that the Default has been committed by a Sub-
developer, then that City shall also provide a courtesy copy of the Notice to Developer.

       6.2. The Notice of Default shall:

                    6.2.1.   Specify the claimed event of Default;

                 6.2.2.     Identify with particularity the provisions of any applicable law, rule,
         regulation or provision of this Agreement that is claimed to be in Default;

                    6.2.3.   Identify why the Default is claimed to be material;

                 6.2.4.     Propose a method and time for curing the Default which shall be of no less
         than sixty (60) days duration.

       6.3. If the Parties are not able to resolve the Default, then the Parties have all rights and
remedies available at law and in equity, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief and/or specific
performance.

       6.4. The Party prevailing in any action arising from an uncured default shall be awarded its
reasonable legal expenses, including its reasonable attorney fees.

        6.5. The Party allegedly in Default shall be afforded the right to attend a public meeting
before the City’s Council and address the City’s Council regarding the claimed Default.

       6.6. If any Default cannot be reasonably cured within sixty (60) days, then such cure period
may be extended at the discretion of the Party asserting Default so long as the defaulting Party is
pursuing a cure with reasonable diligence.

      6.7. A default of any obligations assumed by an assignee or Sub-developer shall not be
deemed a default of Developer.

        6.8. All notices required or permitted under this Agreement shall, in addition to any other
means of transmission, be given in writing either by certified mail, hand delivery, overnight courier
service, or email to the following addresses:

              To Developer:
                    FSH Timberline LLC
                    c/o Randy Smith and Mindy Dansie
                    12896 S Pony Express Rd., #400
                    Draper, UT 84043
                    randys@fieldstonehomes.com
                    mindyd@fieldstonehomes.com

              With a copy to:
                     Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar



     UC_6674131.1
                     c/o Brent N. Bateman
                     1557 Innovation Way, Ste 400
                     Lehi, UT 84043
                     brent.bateman@dentons.com


              To City:

              With a copy to:


        6.9. Notwithstanding the termination of this Agreement for any reason, any applications,
development entitlements, approvals, or improvements, on any portion of the Property in accordance
with this Agreement and the Concept Plan (“Development Activities”) shall remain fully vested under
this Agreement, and the fee owner of the parcels on which such Development Activities pertain shall
be entitled to continue the Development Activities on its parcel in accordance herewith.

     7.       Assignability.

        7.1. The rights and responsibilities of Developer hereunder may be assigned in whole or in
part, by Developer. Developer shall give the City Notice of any assignment within ten (10) days after
the event has occurred. Such Notice shall include providing the City with all necessary contact
information for the newly responsible party. Developer’s assignment of all or any part of the
Developer’s rights and responsibilities hereunder to any entity not “related” to Developer (as defined
by regulations of the Internal Revenue Service in Section 165), shall be subject to the City’s approval,
which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Unless the City objects in writing
within ten (10) business days of Notice, the City shall be deemed to have approved of and consented to
the assignment.

        7.2. If any proposed assignment is for less than all of Developer’s rights and responsibilities,
then the assignee shall be responsible for the performance of each of the obligations contained in this
Agreement to which the assignee succeeds. Upon any such partial assignment, Developer shall be
released from any future obligations as to those obligations that are assigned.

       7.3. Any assignee of all or any part of Developer’s rights and responsibilities under this
Agreement shall consent in writing to be bound by the assigned terms and conditions of this
Agreement as a condition precedent to the effectiveness of the assignment. Any assignee is required to
consult and participate in a pre-construction meeting requested by any of the City.

     8.       General Provisions.

       8.1. This Agreement begins on the Effective Date and will run with the land.

       8.2. This Agreement has been drafted by legal counsel for the Developer and the City, and no
presumption or rule that ambiguities shall be against the drafting Party shall apply to the interpretation
or enforcement of this Agreement.



     UC_6674131.1
        8.3. Each Party hereto agrees to cooperate in good faith with the other, and to execute and
deliver such further documents and to take all further acts reasonably necessary in order to carry out
the intent and purposes of this Agreement and the actions contemplated hereby. All provisions and
requirements of this Agreement shall be carried out by each Party as allowed by law.

        8.4. Both Parties understand that any legislative action by the City Council is subject to
referral or challenge by individuals or groups of citizens, including approval of development
Agreements and a rezone of the Property. If a referendum or challenge relates to the approval of this
Agreement or the adoption of the Agreement Zone, and the referendum or challenge is submitted to a
vote of the people pursuant to Utah Code § 20A-7-601, then Developer may deliver a Notice of
rescission to the City to terminate this Agreement. Upon Developer’s delivery of a Notice of
Termination pursuant to this Section, this Agreement shall automatically terminate with respect to that
City only, whereupon the Parties shall have no further rights or obligations hereunder.

        8.5. The Parties intend that the administration, but not the approval, of this Agreement and
any amendments, shall be processed through administrative land use applications to be decided by the
land use authority, as those terms are defined in Utah law. Any development fee, impact fee, building
fee, and/or other fees that are part of this Project shall be in the legally compliant amount of the higher
of the two City.

        8.6. This Agreement shall be recorded by any party in its entirety, at Developer’s expense, in
the Official Records of Weber County, Utah, and this Agreement shall run with the land.

        8.7. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of Utah.

       8.8. This Agreement is made and entered into for the sole protection and benefit of the Parties
and their assigns. No other person shall have any right of action based upon any provision of this
Agreement whether as third-party beneficiary or otherwise.

        8.9. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which is deemed to be
an original.

         8.10. If City elects to consider terminating this Agreement due to any uncured Default by
Developer, then City shall give to the Developer written notice of City’s intent to terminate this
Agreement and the matter shall be scheduled for consideration and review by City’s legislative body at
a duly noticed public meeting. Developer shall have the right to offer written and oral evidence prior
to or at the time of said public meeting. If City’s legislative body determines that a Default has
occurred and is continuing, and elects to terminate this Agreement, City shall send written notice of
termination of this Agreement to Developer by certified mail and this Agreement shall thereby be
terminated. City may thereafter pursue any and all remedies at law or equity.

       8.11. No delay in exercising any right or remedy shall constitute a waiver thereof, and no
waiver by City or Developer for the breach of any covenant of this Agreement shall be construed as a




     UC_6674131.1
waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other covenant or condition of this
Agreement.

        8.12. If City’s approval of the Project is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction this
Agreement shall be null and void. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be
unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction or as a result of any
legislative action, such holding, or action shall be strictly construed.

        8.13. Developer shall not be liable for any delay or failure in the keeping or performance of its
obligations under this Agreement during the time and to the extent that any such failure is due to
causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Party affected, including but not
limited to, acts of God, acts of the United States Government or the State of Utah, fires, floods, strikes,
materials shortages, embargoes, wars, terrorist acts or unusually adverse weather conditions. Upon the
occurrence of any such cause, Developer shall notify City and shall promptly resume the keeping and
performance of the affected obligations after such cause has come to an end.

        8.14. Developer shall be the sole owner of all names, titles, plans, drawings, specifications,
ideas, programs, designs and work products of every nature developed, formulated or prepared by or at
the request of Developer in connection with the Project.

       8.15. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in written form mutually
agreed to and signed by each of the Parties.

        8.16. In the event either party hereto fails to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement or in the event a dispute arises concerning the meaning or interpretation of any provision
of this Agreement, the party not prevailing in such dispute shall pay any and all reasonable and actual
costs and expenses incurred by the other party in enforcing or establishing its rights hereunder,
including, without limitation, court costs and attorneys' fees.

                                           [Signature Page Follows]




     UC_6674131.1
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have executed this Agreement by and
through their respective, duly authorized representatives as of the day and year first herein above
written.

                                                     DEVELOPER:

                                                     FSH Timberline LLC,
                                                     a Utah limited liability company

                                                     By:
                                                     Name:
                                                     Its: Manager




                           DEVELOPER ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                 )
                              :ss.
COUNTY OF                     )


        On the _____ day of _____________, 2025, personally appeared before me
______________, who being by me duly sworn, did say that he/she is the ______________ of
Fieldstone Land Investors LLC, a Utah limited liability company, and that the foregoing
instrument was executed on behalf of said company.



                                                     ______________________________

                                                     NOTARY PUBLIC




UC_6674131.1
Approved as to form and legality:                    RIVERTON CITY,
                                                     a Utah political subdivision
___________________________
City Attorney                                        By:
                                                     Name: ___________________________
                                                     Its: _____________________________
Attest:

___________________________
City Recorder




                                CITY ACKNOWLEDGMENT

STATE OF UTAH                 )
                              :ss.
COUNTY OF                     )


        On the _____ day of _____________, 2025, personally appeared before me
______________, who being by me duly sworn, did say that he/she is the ______________ of
Riverton City, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, and that said instrument was signed on
behalf of the City by authority of its City Council and said ___________________ acknowledged
to me that the City executed the same.



                                                     ______________________________

                                                     NOTARY PUBLIC




UC_6674131.1
                                           EXHIBIT A

                                     LEGAL DESCRIPTION



Beginning at a point on the West line of Redwood Road, said point being North 89°38'10" West
224.91 feet to the North Quarter Corner of Section 3, Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt
Lake Base and Meridian, and South 00°13'36" West 664.39 feet along the quarter section line
and West 33.00 feet from the Witness corner of the North Quarter Corner of Section 3, Township
4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, and running:

         thence South 00°13'36" West 170.00 feet along said West line of Redwood Road;

         thence North 89°38'10" West 142.00 feet;

         thence South 00°13'36" West 160.00 feet;

         thence North 89°17'59" West 485.92 feet to the east line of Medallion Cove;

       thence North 00°11'41" East 329.93 feet along the east line of Medallion Cove to the
  south line of Hamilton Height No. 2;

         thence South 89°04'44" East 286.11 feet along the south line of said Hamilton Heights;

      thence South 89°38'10" East 342.00 feet along and beyond the south line of said
  Hamilton Heights No. 2 to the West line of Redwood Road and the point of beginning.




UC_6674131.1
 Received
   Public
Comment
Timberline – Comment – Francis


This is Vern and Betty Francis. We live at 1798 W Hamilton Drive. We are concerned about
the traffic 30 homes, possibly 60 cars would send to our little, sidewalk free street. We
have 5 children 7 and under on Hamilton Dr, including grandchildren and a Downs
Syndrome child right next to the property to be developed. We disagree with 8 homes per
acre.
We feel a street exiting the property at 13550 S would make 3 exits and entrances and
lighted the traffic in our neighborhood. Please consider our feelings in relationship to this
proposed subdivision.
Timberline Comment #2- Lloyd


I'm writing in opposition to the proposed new development plan. I'm adamantly against this
proposal. I live on 13400 South and the traffic is horrific. It is lovely at the moment because of
the road closure which has minimized traffic, which will be short lived. I have difficulty getting
out of my driveway and this would compound the struggle. I'm also opposed to the additional
housing project. It's to many people piled into a small space. It also doesn't suit the current
zoning of the area. Having another entrance from redwood would also be hazardous, especially
so close to the 13400 light. It would bog down traffic south bound at the very least. The
people who currently live in the area would be unfairly impacted. The proposed 8 homes an
acre is deplorable. I would like to refer to the article by Spencer Haymond city council man in
the Riverton newsletter recently. I believe he is correct in all that he said, including the
overbuilding of high density housing ( I consider this to be high density). I wonder who the
real benefators are? The developer seems to me and realtors will reap the real gain here and
the citizens in the area will pay the consequences. Why sell our quality of life to the highest
bidder? I plan to appeal to both him and our newly elected Mayor to try and stop this
nonsense. Now to the real point - do we as citizens really get a fair say in this? I have seen this
happen many times and in many areas and public input means nothing. Please don't let
Riverton City Government go that same direction.


Cindy Lloyd
