                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            January 11, 2024
Subject:         PLZ-23-2040 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Sherry Walker”, at
                 3507 West Melody Creek Circle. Applicant- Sherry Walker


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2040 “Sherry Walker”, at 3507 West
Melody Creek Circle with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. Applicant may use up to 50% of the garage space for the business.
    6. No business activity may take place before 7 am or after 7 pm.
    7. No outside storage or sales will be allowed.
    8. No more than 6 customers per day will come to the home.
    9. Customers must be provided off-street parking.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “Sherry Walker” at 3507
West Melody Creek Circle. The property is .55-acre and is zoned RR-22 (minimum .5 acre lot).
The adjoining neighborhood is also zoned RR-22. Applicant has approximately 43 feet of
frontage on West Melody Creek Circle. The house has 2,300-sf on the main floor. The attached
garage is 2-car with about 840-sf. The property has a drive approach on the north side of the
house and a driveway that continues to the back of the property.

The applicant, Ms. Walker, has had a business on the property without a permit. Ms. Walker buys
clothing, ski/snowboard equipment, boots, etc. and resells them from her home. The situation
came to the city’s knowledge via neighbors. Ms. Walker would like to come into compliance with
the home occupation code. She has agreed to change her business plan from outdoor storage
 Report by: LH
and a garage-sale type business to using space in her garage to store and sell her inventory. She
will also voluntarily limit customers to six per day.

This application comes before the Planning Commission because applicant desires to use garage
space for their business.




Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. One neighbor comment in opposition to the proposed home occupation had been received
at the time of this report.



Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).
 Report by: LH
The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
         exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.

         (5) The planning commission acts as the land use authority for conditional use home
         occupations.




18.190.060 Fixed standards.
             4.a. (i) The property has sufficient space on the lot to accommodate all employee and
             business-related vehicles and that on-street parking will not be necessary.

             (vii) The home occupation will not require any signage.

             (6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the
             home occupation, including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and
             use off-street parking. Off-street parking must also be provided for customers, clients or
             business-related visitor vehicles.
 Report by: LH
              (10) Outdoor/Yard Space. The home occupation shall not involve the use of any
              unscreened or unenclosed yard space for home occupation activities including, but not
              limited to, home occupation events or activities; and storage or display of supplies,
              inventory or equipment when such use is in conjunction with the sales, service or
              production of goods. Any screened area or structure used for the home occupation
              must be located in either the side or rear yard areas.




Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Public Notice including Area Map
         2.     Application
         3.     Parking/Sales/Inventory Storage Plan
         4.     Street Views




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, January 11, 2024 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood
                                               Road to take public comment on the following application:
Sherry Walker is seeking approval for a home-based business to be based at 3507 Melody Creek
Circle. She is requesting permission to use the garage for business purposes. She desires to resell
used clothing and snowboarding equipment. She anticipates a maximum of 3 customers per day.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
