                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                   MAY 25, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Chair Jon Gilchrist                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Evan Matheson                                    Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Monique Mortensen                                Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Jon Gilchrist called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 p.m. and led the
Pledge.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     AFCU AMENDED SITE PLAN, PLZ-23-8006, AN AMENDED COMMERCIAL
              SITE PLAN TO BE LOCATED AT 12653 SOUTH 3600 WEST. APPLICANT
              - AWA ENGINEERING.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the Commission
recently approved the site plan; however, there were significant site modifications. The
matter was re-noticed but no comments were received. He noted that nothing about the
building had changed but there some changes to the site. Mr. Prestwich presented what
was previously approved and reminded the Commission that most of the site is vacant. The
property is not being split in order to maintain as much flexibility as possible in the future.
There will be full access to 3600 West and a right-in right-out onto 12600 South. The
applicants spoke with representatives from the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”)
regarding the Traffic Study and it was recommended that islands be added. After the
meeting, additional information was received regarding the Traffic Study and the applicants
continued to work with UDOT. Ultimately, changes were made to the site.

On 3600 West, the full access near the building was changed to a right-in right-out and full
access was added to the south as well as a connection road. The landscaping was
increased with the previous treatments expanded. Mr. Prestwich appreciated what was
done and stated that the applicants went beyond what would have been required of them.
He commented that they have made a commitment to make the corner look attractive.
Another modification was made to the drive approach, which was moved to the east 50 to
80 feet. UDOT is requiring different islands and turn movements. The nearby Scooters site
was identified but was not yet connected. Once the area is developed, a connection will be
made to provide cross-access. No changes were made north of the approach. All other
aspects of the site remain the same.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                2
May 25, 2023



Mr. Prestwich presented the new plan with the old plan overlaid to show the changes. A
minor change was made to the fencing to remove the field fence and extend the new chain
link fencing to the wall. This will allow for better circulation and push the restriction back
slightly. The area can be cleaned up and maintained a few times each year with access
from a few different points. The landscaping will change to include three different types of
ground cover rock. The proposed landscaping meets the City’s waterwise landscaping
goals, has a high density of plantings, and includes the required number of trees. A variety
of ground cover was used to provide visual interest. Other landscaping on the site was
enhanced beyond what would have been required. The park strips along 12600 South will
remain and the applicants will take over maintenance and work with the Parks Department
to disconnect from the City system. The existing sod will be removed and replaced with
rock.

Reference was made to the church fence, which was moved off of the property line. Staff
recommended adding a condition to specify that there may be a fence within a fence.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Chair Gilchrist moved to APPROVE PLZ-23-8006, Amended Site Plan for “America
First Credit Union (“AFCU”) located at 12653 South 3600 West with the following
conditions:

       1.     Site Plan Improvements and Building shall be consistent with the plans
              presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.

       2.     The applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

       3.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations comply with the Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances and with the recommendations of the
              Riverton City Engineer.

       4.     The applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
              Management Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances.

       5.     A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
              construction grading on the site.

       6.     The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City Standards and ordinances, including the International Building and
              Fire Codes.

       7.     The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

       8.     Rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                         3
May 25, 2023



      9.    Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

      10.   The dumpster enclosure shall have solid gates and the gates and
            enclosure shall be of similar materials to the building.

      11.   The park strip on 3600 West shall be irrigated and maintained by the
            applicant and its successors.

      12.   The temporary fence shall be installed as shown on the Site Plans prior
            to occupancy of the building.

      13.   If the applicant is not able to get permission from the south property
            owner to install the new fence along the common boundary line,
            permission is granted by the Planning Commission for the applicant to
            install parallel fencing.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of April 27, 2023.

Commissioner Matheson moved to approve the minutes of the April 27, 2023
Meeting minutes, as submitted. Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The
motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 6:50 p.m.
