                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                   MAY 8, 2025

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 PM in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                    Staff:

Darren Park, Chair (arrived at 6:55 p.m.)       Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Monique Beck, Vice-Chair                        Lisa Halversen, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Shelly Cluff                                    Matt Cassell, City Engineer
Crystal Keele
Troy Rushton

1.           CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

In the absence of Chair Darren Park, Vice-Chair Monique Beck called the meeting to order
at 6:30 PM.

The meeting began with the Pledge of Allegiance. Vice-Chair Beck then reported that Items
3A and 3B would be heard prior to the public hearing for Item 2A.

2.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.     “MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 26A”, PLZ-25-8001, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN
             TO BUILD 93 RESIDENTIAL UNITS ON 12.48 ACRES LOCATED AT
             APPROXIMATELY 13545 SOUTH 4480 WEST IN THE SLR ZONE.
             APPLICANT – BRANDON PARR, EDGE HOMES.

City Planner Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the since the 2 Decision
Items are in the same project, they would be discussed concurrently. The subject property
is in the SLR Special Development District (“SDD”) on the west side of Riverton near 13800
South and the Welby Jacobs Canal. Mountain Ridge West is almost completely built out.
Mountain Ridge Apartments have been approved but not constructed. Freddy’s Frozen
Custard and Raising Cane’s in the Villages at South Mountain held their grand opening
ceremonies early in the week. Construction was scheduled to begin on the seven-story
SALT Apartments in Summer 2025.

Mr. Prestwich reported that the SLR SDD review process differs from the typical process per
agreements between the City and landowner that were approved by the City Council in 2016.
The master developer is required to approve all plans in the SDD early in the review process.
The projects the Planning Commission was considering were the Detailed Plan and Plat in
the East Block Scale Plan, which includes a city park, townhomes, and small-lot single-
family homes.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     2
May 8, 2025


The Community-Scale Plan and Block Scale Plan were reviewed. The Block Scale Plan
was approved with 196 townhomes, 132 single-family homes, one church lot, a clubhouse,
and a park. The development includes both public and private roads.

The Site Plan was reviewed next. Mountain Ridge Phase 26a will be accessed via Sentinel
Ridge Boulevard. Templar Drive will be a City street. Other streets will be private and will
include stubs for townhome access. The clubhouse will be constructed at a later date. An
existing trail west of Sentinel Ridge Boulevard will be extended east and connect with a trail
along Welby Jacob Canal. Phase 26b will further extend the trail and fence to 13800 South.
There will be no fence along the creek. A total of 89 townhomes and four single-family
homes are included in Phase 26a. Phase 26b will include storm ponds that will also serve
as playing fields, and the park will be constructed at a later date. The City Council requested
that a wrought-iron fence be included as part of the park design, similar to the fence along
the canal near the SALT Apartments.

Phase 26b will include traffic mitigation efforts on Sentinel Ridge Boulevard, primarily islands
with designated turn pockets to prevent cross-lane traffic. The traffic study considered
alternatives including roundabouts and traffic signals, but islands were determined to be the
most practical long-term solution that would not require demolition of existing homes or
infrastructure. Staff requested inclusion of a Condition of Approval that one island be
installed prior to construction of 30 units, and all other islands be installed prior to occupancy.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich clarified that there was
no requirement for the developer to install fencing along the canal prior to occupancy, but
that has been a Condition of Approval on other similar developments and could be required
at the Planning Commission’s discretion.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the City was committed to adding the required
improvements to avoid any delays in issuing occupancy permits. Mr. Prestwich stated that
Edge Homes would install the improvements on Sentinel Ridge Boulevard prior to
occupancy. The City Council will make a final decision on landscaping within the islands as
they will be maintained by the City.

Brandon Watson of Edge Homes stated that the west side of Sentinel Ridge Boulevard is
almost completed, and they were excited to begin work on the east side. A lot of important
utility and traffic infrastructure will be installed, including Greenford Lane in front of the park
in Phase 26b. He agreed to the additional Condition of Approval to install wrought-iron
fencing along the canal prior to occupancy to address any potential safety issues.

Commissioner Rushton stated that the City has a clear requirement for fencing along canals
and asked if latitude was granted due to the project being in the SLR SDD. Mr. Prestwich
confirmed that the City will be designing and maintaining the park, and the City Council
expressed the desire for an open feel. As wrought iron is present elsewhere in the
development and will be utilized in the park, Staff determined that all fencing should be
consistent. Mr. Prestwich then indicated locations of public and private fences on the Site
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             3
May 8, 2025


Plan and reported that the trail will be maintained by the Homeowners Association but will
include a public access easement.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-25-8001, “Mountain Ridge Phase 26a” Final Plan, to be located near 13800 South
Sentinel Ridge Boulevard, subject to the following:

Conditions:

      1.      This Phase shall comply with the terms and conditions approved with
              the Block Scale Plan, and with the SLR Project Area Master Development
              Agreement.

      2.      Site Improvements shall be consistent with the plans presented to the
              Planning Commission except where otherwise noted in this approval.

      3.      Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

      4.      The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
              Fire Codes.

      5.      Applicant must create a Long-Term Storm Water Management Plan or
              Covenant to Maintain the private storm drain system as required by city
              ordinance.

      6.      Developer will install a trail along Rose Creek and Welby Jacob Canal as
              shown on the plans. The portions of the fence and trail that adjoin private
              property will be owned and maintained by the HOA. The private portions
              of the trail will have a public access easement.

      7.      Per Fire Department Requirements, no more than 30 units may be
              occupied in Phase 26A before a second access into the phase is made
              connecting to Sentinel Ridge or 13800 South.

      8.      Templar Drive may not open for public access until traffic islands in
              Sentinel Ridge are installed as shown on Phase 26a plans.

      9.      Fencing along the canal must be completed before occupancy is
              granted.

Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                             4
May 8, 2025


      B.      “MOUNTAIN RIDGE PHASE 26B”, PLZ-25-8002, A FINAL/DETAIL PLAN
              FOR 2.4 ACRES LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 13710 SOUTH 4305
              WEST IN THE SLR ZONE. APPLICANT – BRANDON PARR, EDGE
              HOMES.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-25-8002, “Mountain Ridge Phase 26b” Final Plan, to be located near 13800 South
Sentinel Ridge Boulevard, subject to the following:

Conditions:

      1.      This Phase shall comply with the terms and conditions approved with
              the Block Scale Plan, and with the SLR Project Area Master Development
              Agreement.

      2.      Site Improvements shall be consistent with the plans presented to the
              Planning Commission except where otherwise noted in this approval.

      3.      Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.

      4.      The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
              City Standards and Ordinances, including the International Building and
              Fire Codes.

      5.      Applicant must create a Long-Term Storm Water Management Plan or
              Covenant to Maintain the private storm drain system as required by city
              ordinance.

      6.      Developer will install a trail along Welby Jacob Canal as shown on the
              plans. The portions of the fence and trail that adjoin private property will
              be owned and maintained by the HOA. The private portions of the trail
              will have a public access easement.

      7.      Public improvements and areas intended for city ownership in the future
              park phase shall be constructed to City Standards and Specifications
              governing such work.


Commissioner Keele seconded the motion. The motion passed with unanimous
consent of the Commission.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                5
May 8, 2025


3.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “PRIORITY BUILDERS REZONE,” PLZ-25-4004, SCOTT YERMISH WITH
              PRIORITY BUILDINGS IS SEEKING A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
              AND REZONE OF FOUR PARCELS MAKING APPROXIMATELY 4.28
              ACRES. THE PARCELS ARE LOCATED NEAR THE NORTHWEST
              CORNER OF 11800 SOUTH AND REDWOOD ROAD. THE APPLICANT IS
              REQUESTING THE GENERAL PLAN BE AMENDED TO HIGH-DENSITY
              RESIDENTIAL, AND A REZONE FROM THE EXISTING R-4 RESIDENTIAL,
              AND GATEWAY COMMERCIAL ZONES TO THE RM-8 ZONE, A MULTI-
              FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONE, WHICH ALLOWS CONDOS AND
              TOWNHOMES UP TO 8 DWELLINGS PER ACRE.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the subject property
is near 11800 South and Redwood Road on the north side of the City. The Applicant
originally requested rezoning to Residential Medium-Density, which allows for up to 14 units
per acre (“RM-14”). The request was later modified to lower the density to Residential
Medium-Density where eight units per acre is allowed (“RM-8”). As a result, two public
notices were sent to property owners within 1,000 feet of the subject property consisting of
the original notice and a corrected one indicating the change.

The Zoning and General Plan Maps were reviewed. The zoning dictates what can be done
with a property and General Plan designations usually match zoning in established areas.
The subject property is in an area of the City that includes multiple zones, including RM-8,
Commercial Gateway (“C-G”), Rural Residential (“RR-22”), and Residential Single-Family
(“R-4”). The General Plan Designation for the area was previously Estate Density
Residential and Community Commercial.

The subject property consists of four parcels currently zoned C-G, R-4, and RR-22 that
would be rezoned to RM-8. It is good practice to change the General Plan Designation at
the time of rezoning, so a request was also made to change the General Plan Designation
to Medium-High Density. An aerial map was displayed indicating existing homes and a
creek. Mr. Prestwich reported that a four-story office building was approved in 2019 on one
parcel, but it was never constructed.

Staff determined that the RM-8 Zone and Residential Medium Density Land Use Designation
are compatible with the area. Permitted uses include attached or detached condominiums
or townhomes, residential planned developments, parks and open spaces, and household
pets. Conditional uses include nursing homes, group daycares, public and quasi-public
buildings like churches and private schools, medical clinics, and golf courses. The threshold
for approval of legislative action items is that they represent a reasonably debatable idea.
For example, a reasonable idea for approval was that approval would allow similarly zoned
properties in the area. A reasonable idea for denial was that the General Plan currently calls
for Estate Density Residential.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 6
May 8, 2025


Mr. Prestwich reported that several public comments were received via email and made
available to the Planning Commission. The comments would also be forwarded to the City
Council. He noted that the application had not yet been added to a City Council Meeting
Agenda and would be separately noticed prior to the meeting.

Commissioner Cluff noticed that the red outline on the second notice was in an incorrect
location and asked if it still complied with noticing requirements. Mr. Prestwich stated that
the clerical error was not identified prior to compilation of the Staff Report. However, the
first notice indicated the correct area on the aerial map, and all property owners within 1,000
feet of the subject property received both notices.

In response to a follow-up question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that
concerns regarding traffic and parking would be addressed during Site Plan review. The
City Council would hold a public hearing on the current request. If approved, a Planning
Commission public hearing would be held regarding the Site Plan, and advance notice would
be sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. He noted that the property
abuts Redwood Road, which is owned by the Utah Department of Transportation ("UDOT"),
and 11800 South, which is a City-owned road, so a traffic study would be required.
Additionally, the creek is controlled by Salt Lake County and may include flood zones.

Mr. Prestwich reported that, due to ordinance restrictions and property configurations, RM-
8 properties in the City generally do not achieve eight units per acre.

Commissioner Cannon asked how much consideration is given to how rezoning may affect
residents of other cities. City Attorney, Ryan Carter stated that the Planning Commission
must consider if the new zone is a good use of the land. If a resident of a neighboring city
has legitimate input, it can be given the same weight as input from a resident of Riverton.
Historically, Riverton has felt that South Jordan did not pay particular attention to concerns
expressed by Riverton residents regarding development projects on 11800 South.
However, any citizens may speak and could have valuable input.

Commissioner Rushton asked if the City Council could consider adding a Specific
Development (“SD”) District that could allow changes to setbacks, reduction of open space,
etc. to recognize that it is a problematic parcel to develop. Mr. Prestwich stated that the
Planning Commission could recommend an SD, which is used to make exceptions to add
or remove certain zoning requirements. The Applicant would need to prove that a specific
requirement is not feasible and request a change. A Concept Plan had not been received
for the proposed subdivision, but Mr. Prestwich’s understanding was that the Applicant
intended to comply with all requirements of the RM-8 Zone. In response to a follow-up
question, it was clarified that the SD could not be applied as part of the Site Plan Review as
the Site Plan is an administrative review and only the City Council can create a SD.

Chair Park indicated that the public comments included traffic concerns and asked if UDOT
or the City had any plans regarding Redwood Road or 11800 South that could affect traffic
flow for the project. City Engineer, Matt Cassell clarified that there were currently no plans
for how that would be approached. Due to UDOT’s reluctance to allow curb cuts, the traffic
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  7
May 8, 2025


could be forced onto 11800 South, as there will only be right-in/right-out access from
Redwood Road. In response to a follow-up question, Mr. Cassell reported that the Army
Corps of Engineers may be involved, but it would depend on the final subdivision layout and
its impact on Midas Creek.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich stated that up to 40 units could
potentially fit on a 4.28-acre parcel, but the actual unit count on the subject property will be
lower due to its shape and topography.

Commissioner Cannon stated that townhomes normally do not have a lot of resident drivers,
so the traffic impact could be minimized. He asked if the two entrances onto 11800 South
could be merged. He referred to a previous flooding event and asked if Midas Creek could
be built to 100-year storm standards. Mr. Prestwich reported that the City cannot force the
developer to connect to the existing private road, but that would be the preferred access.
He was unsure if UDOT would allow another access point on Redwood Road. Mr. Cassell
stated that Salt Lake County conducted a study on Midas Creek to ensure that it could
withstand a 100-year storm event. The City would need to verify that the development would
not prevent the creek from staying within its banks during such an event.

The Applicant, Scott Yermish of Priority Builders and Newman Construction stated that he
lives in the Silos at Riverbend, and they have built several other communities in Riverton as
well. Approximately one year previously, he was informed that the office building would not
be constructed due to construction costs. After speaking with Staff, his company moved
forward with purchasing all four parcels for the development. They have considered two
options for Midas Creek, either a bridge or a storm drain system as was approved for the
subdivision to the north. They have spoken with the engineer who designed that system,
and Priority Builders’ engineer is well-qualified to address the issue. Specific needs and
solutions would be identified after zoning was secured. The neighboring HOA has discussed
repaving their entrance and expressed concerns about upkeep costs for Midas Creek, and
he hopes to reach an agreement with them to assist with those matters in exchange for
shared access. UDOT has indicated that they will allow direct right in/right out access from
Redwood Road, and it is his preference to avoid direct access from 11800 South.

Vice-Chair Beck opened the public hearing.

Ryan Clerico stated that he is not opposed to the development or rezoning but asked the
Planning Commission to consider that architectural standards of the Gateway Commercial
Zone would be lost and density would be increased. He believes that traffic is an appropriate
consideration in the rezoning discussion because the parcel currently allows a certain
commercial usage and unit count, and the number of vehicles per day would increase with
the new residential use. He lives west of the property and is outside of the 1,000-foot
notification zone, but he believes everyone who lives in the area and drives on 11800 South
would be affected by the development.

Luke Sieberts lives east of the subject property. He expressed concern that a large
percentage of the property will be undevelopable, so there will be higher density on the
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 8
May 8, 2025


developable portion. He asked how the development would affect the retention of Midas
Creek as any development-related changes to Midas Creek could force him and his neighbor
to purchase flood insurance. His sister lives on the other side of Redwood Road from the
subject property. If an island is installed on Redwood Road, she will not be able to drive her
recreational vehicle into her yard.

Shelly Seiberts lives across the street from the subject property. No one likes high density,
especially in farm areas, as it increases theft and reduces the places where children can
play. She is also very concerned about traffic safety. A large number of accidents occur on
Redwood Road and 11800 South, and she already has difficulty getting out into traffic. She
understands why someone wants to develop the parcel, but she does not believe the roads
can support the density.

Noah Dixon resides directly east of the subject property. His main concern is safety. He
has had issues with theft and has had to chase children from the development to the north
off his property. He understands that the property needs to be developed but asked that it
be developed at estate density. If there are five or six teenagers in a home, they will have
five or six cars, which will add to traffic concerns. He believes that retaining lower-density
zoning would address traffic, safety, and flood mitigation concerns.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff asked if the RM-8 Zone would allow for higher-density buildings like
condominiums on the property due to the amount of unusable land. Mr. Prestwich clarified
that both townhomes and condominiums are permitted in the zone, and the density is based
on gross acreage. Townhomes include private backyard requirements. An apartment
complex would not be allowed in the zone, but a condominium project that meets the
requirements of the ordinance would have to be approved. If the Planning Commission was
concerned about condominiums, they could recommend approval of the rezoning request
with the stipulation that an SD be created to limit development to townhomes only. That
would be consistent with developments to the north and south.

In response to a question from Commissioner Rushton, Mr. Prestwich stated that the creek
would count toward the 30% open space requirement, but the roads would not.

In response to a question from Chair Park, Mr. Prestwich confirmed that the maximum
building height in all residential zones is 35 feet or two-and-one-half stories. In response to
his follow-up question, Mr. Cassell reported that 11800 South will be considered as part of
the Transportation Master Plan update. Staff will coordinate with UDOT, but it is not a state
road. It is jointly owned by Riverton and South Jordan.

Commissioner Cluff stated that traffic on 11800 South has been very heavy lately, possibly
due to construction in other areas of the City, and asked if Staff expected the situation to
improve once construction is complete. Mr. Cassell stated Staff’s expectation and hope was
that it would return to functional operation in the near future. However, growth to the west
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                           9
May 8, 2025


is creating impacts on 12600 South, 13400 South, and 11800 South, and they are trying to
determine what needs to be done to ensure proper traffic flow.

Commissioner Cannon moved that the Planning Commission recommend
APPROVAL of Application PLZ-25-2004, “Priority Builders Rezone,” by changing the
General Plan Designation to Medium High-Density Residential (five to eight dwelling
units per acre) and Rezone the subject properties to RM-8 (multi-family residential,
eight dwelling units per acre), and that a Special District be required to ensure that
only townhomes are constructed on the property. Commissioner Rushton seconded
the motion. The motion passed with unanimous consent of the Commission.



4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.     NONE.

5.    MINUTES

      A.     MINUTES APPROVAL – APRIL 24, 2025.

Commissioner _________ moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes of April 24, 2025, as reported. Chair Park
seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:54 PM.
