                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           August 22, 2024
Subject:        Code Text Amendment PLZ-24-5005, Amending Section 18.135.200, regulating
                temporary commercial uses, Amendments proposed by Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving a legislative recommendation
function, decisions are based on reasonably debated evidence.

Example Motions
   I move the Planning Commission recommend amendment of Section 18.135.200,
   Temporary Commercial Uses, with amendments as described herein, with the following
   additional changes:

Background

Riverton City has an existing ordinance which regulates Temporary Commercial Uses, which
includes uses such as Christmas tree lots, shaved ice stands, and fireworks sales. This proposed
amendment addresses several issues which have been identified with the current code.

The first has to do with allowed duration of such uses. Currently, the code states that such uses “do
not exceed 60 days in duration”, but does not specify the number of times a use can occur. For
example, under the current code, it is not clear whether an applicant can apply for a permit to
operate for 60 days, and then apply for another 60 days once that permit has expired. The
amendment adds the following language to address this:

(2) Temporary commercial uses shall be limited to a combined maximum term of sixty (60) days in a
twelve-month period. Two (2) approvals may be issued for temporary commercial uses per property
per year. Fireworks stands may receive one approval that allows for sales around the July 4th and
July 24th holidays.

The second clarification is for properties where a temporary commercial use is allowed. The current
code states that such uses are only allowed on “commercial zoned parcel”. The amendment adds
clarification that the uses are limited to a commercially zoned parcel “which has been developed
under an approved Site Plan”. This clarifies that temporary commercial uses cannot utilized parcels
which may be commercial zoned but lack improvements including paved parking areas and vehicle
and pedestrian infrastructure.

There are two other amendments clarifying submittal requirements, as shown:

Report by: JL
8/19/2024
18.135.200 Temporary commercial uses.
(1) Temporary commercial uses shall be defined as commercial uses which do not exceed 60 days in
duration and which do not require permanent structures or improvements which are not already
established with an approved permanent use. Such uses may include, but are not limited to, shaved ice
stands, Christmas tree lots, and fireworks stands. A temporary commercial use may only be conducted on
a commercially zoned parcel which has been developed under an approved Site Plan, except approved
Home Occupations as described in RCC 18.190.090(16). Any parcel utilized for temporary commercial
uses must be in compliance with all applicable ordinances and standards. Temporary commercial uses
shall not cause or create a nuisance or hazard and shall conform to all requirements of this title. All trash
will be removed and the property will be restored to a clean condition after the temporary commercial use
has been terminated.

(2) Temporary commercial uses shall be limited to a combined maximum term of sixty (60) days in a
twelve-month period. Two (2) approvals may be issued for temporary commercial uses per property per
year. Fireworks stands may receive one approval that allows for sales around the July 4th and July 24th
holidays.

(2) Temporary commercial uses can be approved by the planning department. At the discretion of the
planning manager temporary commercial uses may be referred to the planning commission as conditional
temporary commercial uses. In such cases the applicant will be responsible for the noticing fees.

(3) Temporary commercial uses shall obtain and/or provide the following:

     (a) A Riverton City business license for commercial uses.

     (b) Property owner’s authorization.

     (c) Building or electrical permit (if necessary).

     (d) Plot plan showing the location of the use, buildings and structures, setbacks, parking and
     circulation, access to public streets and adjacent uses.

     (e)Dates and Hhours of operation.

     (f) Salt Lake Valley health department approval (if necessary).

     (g) Fire department approval (if necessary).

     (h) Mass gathering permit (if necessary).




Report by: JL
8/19/2024
