                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             August 24, 2023
Subject:          PLZ-23-2027 Conditional Use, “Beckstrom Private Lane”, to be located at
                  1431 West 13200 South. Applicant- Jeff Beckstrom


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-23-2027 “Beckstrom Private Lane”, to be
located at 1431 West 13200 South with the following conditions:

      1.   Private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on private lanes.
      2.   Approval is for a private lane with one home accessing the private lane.
      3.   Private lane shall be at least 20-ft wide drivable surface.
      4.   Private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according to the standards of
           the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      5.   The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the standards of
           the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and Specifications.
      6.   The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall conform to
           Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not limited to width, number of
           driveways and separation distance between driveways.
      7.   The private driveway shall be maintained by the homeowner, no City maintenance will be
           performed on the private driveway.
      8.   Water meters for this property shall be placed in the parkstrip or along the property
           frontage. Owner is responsible for waterline maintenance from the meter to the house.


 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a single home to be built on a private lane. The
existing parcel is located on 13200 South Street at 1431 West, just south and east of the City
Cemetery. The subject parcel is 1.97-acres (about 86,000-sf) and is in the RR-22 zone. All
adjoining properties are also zoned RR-22 and the General Plan for the area is Estate Density
Residential (minimum 21,780-sf lots).

Until recently the parcel had a small, old house very near 13200 South. The old house has since
been torn down, now only some of the outbuildings remain. The parcel is narrow and deep being
132-ft wide and 660-ft deep. The applicant desires to build a new home near the center of the
 Report by: TJP
property, set back 345-ft from the front property line. Because of the extraordinary long driveway,
this application comes to the planning commission to be considered as a conditional use for a
private lane.

There is no subdivision proposed at this time. The applicant only desires to build one home.
The frontage improvements were installed several years ago by a City Road Improvement project.
Consequently, this is the only application that will be reviewed by the Planning Commission. If
the applicant ever desires to create new lots he would be required to get a Conditional Use Permit
for the additional lots on a private lane, and complete a subdivision.

Private lanes are used to develop difficult properties. City Code states a preference for
development using public streets but recognizes public streets may be “impossible or impractical”,
on some properties. Staff believes this property should be considered for a private lane for
several reasons including:
    • There are no city roads planned in this area on the Master Transportation Plan.
    • No local streets are stubbed to this property or pointed towards this property.
    • A private lane would not affect access by neighboring properties.
    • Other properties in the area with similar shapes were developed with private lanes.

City Code further states that private lanes serving 1 to 2 lots must have 20 feet of paved surface
width and have an approved fire turnaround.

Recommendations
Staff believes this meets the criteria for a private lane and is therefore recommending approval
with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1. Public Notice including Area Map.
           2. Application.
           3. Site Plan.




 Report by: TJP
Ordinance and Issues

The two questions before the Commission are:
     1- Does this property qualify for a private lane?
     2- What conditions are necessary for the private lane to function on the property?
           (Such as fire turnaround, maximum number of lots, lane width, lane length).

 18.35.070 Lots located on private lanes.
 (1) Public Street Systems Encouraged. Public street systems shall be encouraged for access to all
 residential dwelling sites. However, the city recognizes that there are cases where it is impossible or
 impractical to develop the lot according to normal subdivision standards. In situations where insufficient
 land access exists for a public street system, a conditional use for a private lane or right-of-way may be
 approved by the planning commission.

 Subdivisions on private lanes or rights-of-way may be developed in any residential zone where at least two
 of the following conditions exist (subsections (1)(a) or (1)(b) and (1)(c) of this section):
           (a) A lot of record which is preexisting and has no frontage or adequate property to construct a
           public street; or

           (b) It can be demonstrated by the applicant that the property cannot be physically subdivided with
           public streets, and that development on a private lane would not impede the extension of any
           adjacent public right-of-way either now or in the foreseeable future; and

           (c) The development does not impede the necessary access from adjoining properties as required
           by the master transportation plan.

 Additionally, a private lane is subject to these requirements

 (2) Rights-of-way shall be of sufficient design to service the projected use of property and adjoining
 properties that may have access across such rights-of-way. All new private lanes shall be fully improved
 with asphalt or concrete to adopted city standards. Curb, gutter or other appropriate storm drainage
 methods may be required, as approved by the city based upon city engineer’s recommendation. All
 portions of private rights-of-way shall accommodate a street of no less than the standards as listed
 subsequently:
        (a) One to two lots: 20 feet of paved surface width.
        (b) Three or more lots: 25 feet of paved surface width.
        (c) Development of additional lots on an existing private lane shall be allowed only where the lane
        meets the width requirements for the proposed number of lots.
        (d) Where development includes more than four lots and/or lane width exceeds 150 feet in length,
        additional right-of-way width, including sidewalk on at least one side, may be required by the city up
        to the minimum pavement and sidewalk width of a standard public residential right-of-way, as
        determined in conditional use permit approval.

 (3) Improvements shall include a strategically located turnaround to accommodate emergency vehicles.
 The turnaround configuration may be in any forms compliant with the appropriate fire codes, as
 determined by the fire marshal or designee. Additional clearance may be required to accommodate
 emergency vehicle access.

 (4) The maximum number of units allowed will be established in the review of the conditional use permit,
 based on criteria including but not limited to required minimum lot sizes, traffic and access management
 on the private lane and adjacent public street, emergency service’s needs, and available lane widths.

 (5) All necessary public utility easements shall be dedicated on all lots, including full access where
 Report by: TJP
required by city officials or workers.

(6) Minimum yard setback requirements as defined for public
streets shall apply to all buildings and usesadjoining private
rights-of-way, with setbacks measured from edge of required
private lane width. No portion of the private lane may be
counted towards required driveway dimensions on individual
lots. On flag lots where a narrow portion of the lot area is
occupied solely by the private lane, that narrow private lane area
may not be counted towards the minimum required lot size (see
Figure 1).


(7) All lots shall be provided with standard utility connections, furnished by the property owner, including
approved fire protection infrastructure.

(8) Private lanes shall be named and identified by means of a suitable permanent street marker to
Riverton City standards, to be installed prior to issuance of building permits.

(9) An approved driveway approach from the public street to the lane shall be provided.

(10) A recorded binding covenant shall be prepared providing for maintenance for the lane, drainage
structures, curb, and gutter and any other common improvements.

(11) Private lane area shall not be included in the calculation of buildable area for individual lots, including
determination of allowed square footage for primary and accessory structures.

(12) All required infrastructure, including road improvements, fencing, and stormwater controls shall be
installed prior to issuance of any building permits.

(13) Easements across private property in another ownership may be allowed to accommodate a private
lane only if the property to be accessed is landlocked, with no other means of access available, now or in
the foreseeable future.


Fire Requirements for Private Lanes

                 Drivable Lane Width                                         Parking Rules
                      20-26 feet                                        No Parking both sides.
                      26-32 feet                                        No Parking on one side.
                   32 feet and over                                  Parking allowed on both sides.




Report by: TJP
                                                                  NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                                         The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a
                                                         public hearing on Thursday, August 24 at 6:30 p.m. at
                                                         the Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830
                                                         S. 1700 W. to take public comment on the following
                                                         application:
Jeff Beckstrom is requesting approval of a conditional use for a private lane to be located at
1431 West 13200 South. Private lanes may be allowed in Riverton City if the Commission
determines the property qualifies based on criteria found in Riverton City Code including RCC
18.25.070 which can be viewed on the City’s web-page. The Planning Commission will evaluate
the application and take public comments before making a decision. You received this notice
because Salt Lake County property records indicate that you own property within 300 feet of the
subject property. Additional information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning
Department by calling 801-208-3149.




                                Subject
                                Property




            N

                                                 HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the
meeting. Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the
meeting. Public comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-
3149. All comments submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.




              12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
