                               MEMORANDUM
To:               Planning Commission
From:             Planning Department
Date:             February 13, 2025
Subject:          PLZ-25-2001 Conditional Use, “Ford Parallel Fencing”, to be located at
                  13523 South Redwood Road. Applicant- Robert Ford


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-2001 Conditional Use Permit for “Ford
Parallel Fencing ” with the following conditions:

      1. A second fence may be installed in compliance with Riverton City Code Section
         18.155.110, allowing the existing fences to remain.
      2. The fence shall maintain compliance with any and all applicable Riverton City standards
         and ordinances,
      3. The applicant shall maintain his property, including the space adjacent to the existing
         fencing, in compliance with City Ordinance.

 Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a parallel fence to be installed next to an existing
fence. The subject property is located at 13523 South Redwood Road, in the southeast quadrant
of the city. The lot is 2.79-acres, and zoned RR-22 as are neighboring properties. The applicant is
requesting a Conditional Use permit to allow a parallel fence, also referred to in Riverton City’s
Code as a “fence within a fence”.

The applicant’s property sits lower than the adjacent properties to the north. Given the difference
in grade, the existing fence does not shield the Ford back yard. The applicant is requesting the
ability to install a taller concrete fence on his side of the property line for that portion of the
property.

Riverton City’s ordinance does allow for a fence-within-a-fence as a Conditional Use, with the
following criteria:

      (a) That the second fence be constructed wholly on the applicant’s property, verified if required by
      a survey.
      (b) That the second fence not lean against or otherwise utilize the existing fence for support or
      stability.
 Report by: TJP
      (c) That the applicant be responsible for the placement of permanent weed control measures in
      space between the fences.
      (d) That the applicant, and any and all future owners of the property, be responsible for
      maintenance of any space remaining between the two fences.
      (e) That the second fence not obstruct or impair visibility at any corner or adjacent to existing
      driveways, as defined in this title.
      (f) That the fencing comply with any and all applicable sections of this title.

The proposed fencing is wholly on the applicant’s property, within the existing fence and property
line. As such, staff finds the proposed fence-within-a-fence compliant with City ordinance, and
recommends approval as described in the suggested motion.

Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval of a parallel fence for the property with the conditions listed
above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site. No comments were received.


 Attachments
 The following items are attached:

           1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
           2.     Property Map and aerial photos
           3.     Application, Ownership Materials
           4.     Fence Plan, Neighbor Letters




 Report by: TJP
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING
                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on
                                               Thursday, February 13, 2025, beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the Riverton City
                                               Building located at 12830 South Redwood Rd. to take public comment on
                                               the following application:

Robert Ford is seeking a Conditional Use Permit for parallel fencing (install a new fence next to an existing
fence) on property located at 13523 South Redwood Road.

This application was originally scheduled to be heard at a previous Planning Commission hearing, however, that
meeting was cancelled, so the City is sending this new notice announcing the new meeting date. We apologize
for any confusion this may have caused. Please contact the Planning Department with any questions or concerns
prior to the meeting.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take public
comments before making a decision. You received this notice because Salt Lake County property records
indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional information may be obtained
from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
