                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 22, 2022
Subject:         PLZ-22-2038 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “The Smoking Toad”,
                 at 13840 S. Little Water Peak Drive. Applicant- Matthew Kelsch


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2038 “The Smoking Toad,” located at
13840 S. Little Water Peak Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and other outside agency approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and with this approval.
    5. The Home Occupation may use 50% of the detached garage and must get a Final
       Inspection from the building department.
    6. The business may have one full time equivalent employee according to the rules of
       18.190.060 (4).
    7. Any work vehicles must be parked off-street and not display advertising.
    8. Hours of power tool operation must be kept between 8 am and 7 pm, Monday through
       Saturday.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation “The Smoking Toad” at
13840 S. Little Water Peak Drive. The property is a third-acre corner lot in Monarch Meadows.
The house is about 1,250-sf above grade with a similar basement. The attached garage is 2-car
with about 450-sf. In the rear yard there is a detached garage of about 860-sf. The property has
a drive approach and additional parking space on both the east and south sides of the house.
The applicant wants to do furniture repair and rehabilitation from the detached garage on the
property. He rents this home and has permission from the owner to utilize the garage for his
furniture repair business. He anticipates using 50% of the space for his business and will be the
only employee.
 Report by: LH
This item comes to the Planning Commission because the applicant seeks approval to use an
accessory building for business use. The Home Occupation Ordinance 18.190.080 (3) makes it a
conditional use for any home occupation that proposes to use garage space (detached or
attached).
The applicant is willing to abide by restricted hours of use for power tools. He also indicates that
there will not be any customers coming to the residence. He will have minimal deliveries and
work-related trips.



Recommendations

Staff is recommending approval the home occupation with conditions listed above, including
specifying that the approval only allows one (1) employee, any vehicles will be parked off-street
and not display advertising, and the hours for power tool use will be limited.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. No comments had been received at the time of this report.




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission sees
applications that request permission for certain things as defined by ordinance, or if the
application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to approve it, or if there is
public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
If a proposed business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications
(18.190.070) set forth in the ordinance, then Staff may approve it.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards but cannot meet all of the Qualifications, it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact. On
the other hand, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.




 Report by: LH
         18.190.080 Conditional use permit required.
         The following uses are appropriate as licensable home occupations only if they are determined
         to be compatible with residential neighborhoods after full conditional use review by the planning
         commission, all of the fixed standards, all the qualifications that have not been granted an
         exception through the conditional use process and additional regulations set forth hereafter:

         (3) Business Not Conducted within a Home. Any home occupation which proposes or conducts
         activities within an outbuilding, accessory building, attached or detached garage. The following
         guidelines shall be used to determine the maximum impacts permitted:

         (a) The applicant for a home occupation license shall designate the areas of the home,
         attached/detached garage or accessory structure that will be used for the home occupation and,
         if approved, the home occupation may be conducted only in the designated area.

         (b) A maximum 50 percent of the total floor space of any accessory structure or attached or
         detached garage may be used for the home occupation. The planning commission may grant an
         exception for parcels of at least one-half acre.

         (c) Any accessory structure used for a home occupation will be reviewed for architectural
         aesthetics and compatibility of the home and the immediate neighborhood.

         (d) The home occupation may utilize one unanimated, nonilluminated flat sign to be attached to
         the accessory structure where the home occupation is being conducted, in lieu of the sign
         attached to the home or in a window. The sign may not have an area greater than four square
         feet.



     18.190.060 Fixed standards.
     (14) Neighborhood Disruptions Not Permitted. The home occupation shall not substantially,
     unreasonably and uncharacteristically interfere or disrupt the peace, quiet and domestic tranquility of
     the neighborhood. The home occupation shall not create or be associated with or produce odor,
     smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, noises or vibrations, excessive traffic or other nuisances,
     including interferences with radio and television reception or any other adverse effects within the
     neighborhood.




(6) Off-Street Parking. All business-related vehicles, which park at the location of the home occupation,
including those of the applicant and employee, must be provided and use off-street parking. Off-street
parking must also be provided for customers, clients or business-related visitor vehicles.

(7) Vehicle Advertisement. Vehicles or equipment may not be used for the primary purpose of
advertising the home occupation at the site of the home occupation.




 Report by: LH
Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
         2.     Application.
         3.     Site Plan.
         4.     Street View.
         5.     Home Occupation Code References.




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, September 22, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to
                                               take public comment on the following application:
Matthew Kelsch is seeking approval for a home-based business, “The Smoking Toad LLC”, an in-
home furniture repair company to be based at 13840 S. Little Water Peak Drive. No customers
would come to the home. Repairs would take place in the detached garage.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.




                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
