                             MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           December 14, 2023
Subject:        “Peterson Short-Term Rental,” PLZ-23-2038, Conditional Use Home
                Occupation, to be located at an existing home at 3386 West Sunny Acres
                Drive. Applicant – Amy Peterson


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission APPROVE application PLZ-23-2038, “Peterson Short-
Term Rental” to be located at 3386 West Sunny Acres Drive with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation
       Ordinance (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Short-term rental must be operated within the rules and regulations for Short-term
       Rentals as described in Riverton City Code 18.190.051.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    4. Applicant shall surrender applicant’s conditional use permit for short-term rental use of the
       subject property in the event applicant undertakes any other business activity on the
       subject property, or the applicant shall reapply for a conditional use permit for a short-term
       rental in a manner which takes into account the other business activity.
    5. Applicant shall disclose all Applicant’s advertising materials, whether provided to listing
       agencies or otherwise made available to potential customers and shall semi-annually
       update City staff of any changes to said advertising materials.
    6. There may be no more than 8 guests (non-permanent residents) on the property at any
       given time.

Background

This is a public hearing for a short-term rental application by Amy Peterson, for the short-term
rental of an existing home at 3386 West Sunny Acres Drive in the Hidden Acres Cove
Subdivision in the southwest quadrant of the city. The neighborhood is zoned RR-22, which is
single-family residential with half-acre lots. The subject property is .5-acre, the existing house
built in 2016 is a 2-story with 3400-sf above grade and 2100-sf in the basement. The house
has a 3-car attached garage and a fenced back yard.
Report by: LH
The lot is triangular, narrow in the front and gets deeper and wider as it goes back. This home has
91 feet of frontage on West Sunny Acres Drive and is 155 feet wide at the back of the property.

The applicant has been operating a short-term rental from the home for just over a year and
desires to come into compliance with city code by applying for this permit. She lives in the
basement of the home full-time and rents the top two floors as a single unit for short term rentals.
There is a locked door to separate the areas and there are also separate entrances. The rental is
allowed two parking spaces in the garage and the applicant uses the other space. No on-street
parking is allowed. Ms. Peterson has reviewed all the rules and regulations in the code for short-
term rentals and believes that she can meet all the requirements for a short-term rental.

Comments from several neighbors in opposition to the application have been included. The
majority of their concerns relate to on-street parking, events that create a lot of traffic, and
inadequate supervision by homeowner. Many comments also state a dislike for short-term rentals
in existing neighborhoods under any circumstance. Ms. Peterson has been made aware of the
points of concerns made by her neighbors.

Ms. Peterson has stated her willingness to follow the rules for short-term rentals and agreed to
expressly state in her rental agreement that on-street parking and events will not be allowed. By
living in the basement, she will provide better supervision of the renters. No other business uses of
the home are allowed to take place by either owner or renters.

This application reveals the difficulties the neighbors, Planning Commission and City Staff have
when a Home Occupation operates without a permit, then attempts to obtain a permit to bring their
business into compliance. In most of these cases the applicants have already demonstrated how
their business conflicts with the neighborhood because they did not follow the Home Occupation
rules. Some people question why a Home Occupation should then be given a chance to follow the
rules. Riverton has historically been forgiving of home businesses that operated without a
permit, indeed the ordinance does not provide clear grounds for denying a home occupation
because of issues prior to receiving City approval. On the other hand, once a home occupation is
permitted to operate, then demonstrates it is not able to follow the rules there are clear ordinances
that allow the Commission to revoke the previously approved Home Occupation, and the applicant
is not allowed to reapply for the home occupation for one year.

It is challenging for staff to recommend approval of this application based on the history of non-
compliance and neighbor complaints. Staff have had conversations with Ms. Peterson regarding
the changes that must be made in order to be in compliance. She has indicated willingness to
make the required changes. As Planning Commissioners are the land use authority, it will be up to
them to weigh the neighbor concerns with the applicant’s ability to follow conditions of approval.




 Report by: LH
 Ordinances and Issues
 Short-term rentals are considered Home Occupations under Riverton City Code and are allowable
 as conditional uses in all residential zones. The code gives a list (see 18.190.051 items 1 thru 13)
 of requirements for licensing and operating a short-term rental including:

       1. The applicant must own the home and live there.
       2. Rentals are limited to 150 nights per year.
       3. Only one rental agreement at a time.
       4. Owner must give a contact number to neighbors within 300-ft.
       5. A rental agreement must be for a minimum of 2-nights and cannot exceed 29-days.
       6. No more than 8 renters at any one time.
       7. Off-street parking must be provided and used.
       8. Renter information packet must be posted with contact information.
       9. Address must be clearly visible on the front of the house.
       10. Backyard must be fenced.
       11. Obtain a Conditional Use permit and a Riverton Business License.
       12. Comply with Riverton City Noise Ordinance.
       13. Property is to be maintained according to Riverton Ordinance.

Item #11 requires several submittals from the applicant to be used by staff and the Commission to
evaluate the application. Most of these are similar to other Home Occupations, but a few are unique
to Short-Term Rentals. The table below lists each criteria with or a brief description or explanation
of how each is met.


     1 Proof of ownership                           Mortgage notice shown.
     2 Proof of primary residency.                  Shown to Planning staff at time of
                                                    application.
     3 Drawing or photo showing off-street          Attached   photo   showing   3-car         wide
                                                    driveway.
       parking.
     4 Proof of compliance with existing            Applicant reports there are no HOA
       CC&R’s                                       restrictions on short -term rentals.
     5 Pay the Conditional Use fees.                Paid with the application.
     6 Comply with the Conditional Use Permit       Made application for this hearing.
       process.
     7 Submit a business license application.       Submitted or will be submitted after this
                                                    hearing.
     8 Proof of sales tax registration.             Required with Business License
                                                    application.
     9 Proof of Business Entity registration.       Required with Business License
                                                    application.
   10 Show compliance with all Riverton             Required before Business License Issued.
                                                    Includes sign-offs by Fire, Building
      Business License requirements.                Inspection and Planning Department.



This application comes before the Planning Commission because all short-term rental applications
require a conditional use permit and approval by the commission. Staff has reviewed the
application and believes the application meets or can meet the requirements for Short-Term
Rentals.

 Report by: LH
Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page. Multiple comments were received from neighbors, they are included in the staff information
packet.




Attachments
 The following items are attached:

          1.     Public Notice including Area Map
          2.     Application
          3.     Photo of parking area
          4.     Street view




 Report by: LH
18.190.051 Short term rentals.
(1) A short term rental property must be owner occupied and the business owner’s primary
residence.

(2) Short term rentals are an allowable conditional use in all residential zones.
      (a) The owner must live in the dwelling a minimum of 185 nights a year.
      (b) Rentals are limited to 150 nights per year. Renters must be required to agree to a two-
      night minimum stay.

(3) Only one rental agreement may be in operation at any one time, and the party who executes
the rental agreement with the property owner must stay at the property each night during the
rental period.

(4) The owner must provide a contact number to all renters and to all residents within 300 feet of
the residence.
      (a) The owner or representative must be available to respond 24/7 by phone.
      (b) The owner or representative must physically respond, meaning arrive at the rental
      property, within one hour after being called.

(5) Each rental shall be limited to 29 consecutive nights per renter.
      (a) There shall be a minimum of four hours vacancy between renters.

(6) Rentals are limited to a total of eight renters.

(7) All rental-related parking must be off street and contained within footprint of the frontage of
the home.

(8) An informational packet must be posted in plain view inside the residence with escape,
emergency contact information, appliance control and hazard-related information.

(9) An address number shall be conspicuously posted on the entrance of the rental residence or
on any mailbox located in the park strip of the residence.

(10) All rental activities must be confined to the residence, accessory or out building and the
privacy fenced rear and side yards of the residence. Privacy fencing around rear and side yards
shall be required in all zones which allow for a one-third-acre lot size, or lots smaller than a one-
third-acre lot size.




 Report by: LH
(11) As part of the conditional use application the property owner must:
      (a) Provide proof of ownership.
      (b) Provide proof of primary residency by providing sufficient documentation as determined
      by the Riverton City planning department. Such information may include, any one of the
      following:
            (i) Federal or state tax returns;
            (ii) Government issued ID showing property address;
            (iii) Deed records;
            (iv) Providing signed and notarized affidavit attesting to ownership; or
            (v) Other suitable proof of ownership as determined by the city.
      (c) Provide proof of adequate off-street parking areas on the property and contained within
      footprint of the frontage of the home.
      (d) Provide proof of compliance with existing CC&Rs associated with the property.
      (e) Provide proof that all applicable fees associated with the conditional use permit have
      been paid.
      (f) Comply with all other requirements of the conditional use permit process established by
      the Riverton City Code.
      (g) Provide a copy of the short term rental business license application.
      (h) Provide proof of sales tax license.
      (i) Provide proof of business entity registration (if applicable) with the state of Utah
      (http://corporations.utah.gov).
      (j) Show compliance with all applicable requirements associated with the Riverton City
      business license code and procedures and payment of all applicable fees.

(12) The owner shall ensure that all rental activities comply with Riverton City noise ordinance.
      (a) More than one violation of the noise ordinance by any one renter in any 72-hour period
      which results in issuance of a citation shall require the owner to terminate the rental.

(13) The owner is responsible to ensure that the residence and associated property is maintained
in accordance with Riverton City Code.
      (a) Three or more violations within any 12-month period will result in the loss of the business
      license.




 Report by: LH
                                               NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                 The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                 on Thursday, December 14, 2023 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                 Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. Redwood
Road to take public comment on the following application:
Amy Peterson is seeking approval for a conditional use permit for a short-term rental to be located
at 3386 West Sunny Acres Drive.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.

                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149• rivertonutah.gov
