                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            September 8, 2022

Subject:      PLZ-22-2035 Conditional Use Home Occupation, “Sweethearts Salon”, an in-
home hair and nail salon to be located at 11882 Craig View Lane. Applicant- Whitney Craig



This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motion
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-22-2035 ““Sweethearts Salon”, to be
located at 11882 Craig View Lane with the following conditions:

    1. The site, structures, and use shall remain in compliance with any and all applicable
       Riverton City standards and ordinances, specifically the City Home Occupation Ordinance
       (18.190) and applicable Building and Fire Codes.
    2. Applicant must obtain and maintain a Riverton City business license.
    3. Applicant must obtain and maintain applicable State and Health Department approvals.
    4. Home Occupation must operate within the Fixed Standards, and applicable Qualifications
       and Conditions as outlined in the Home Occupation Ordinance and this approval.
    5. No more than 10 customers per day to visit the house for this business.
    6. No more than one non-resident employee to be employed at this business.
    7. Employee and customer parking will be off-street.

Background

This is a public hearing for a Conditional Use for a Home Occupation for Sweethearts Salon to
be located at 11882 Craig View Lane. The property is zoned R-3, which is a single-family
residential property on 1/3 acre lots. The subject home is the southernmost lot in the Craig View
subdivision. The house was just recently built and is 2276 sf. with a 3-car garage and an in-
home salon that opens into the garage and has a separate outside entrance.
The applicant, Whitney Craig, describes her business as an in-home hair and nail salon.
She has no other home occupations for this property. Her objective is to rent out part of her salon
to another stylist. Between the two of them she expects to have from 1 – 10 customers come to
the home daily at different times.
This application comes before the Planning Commission because the proposed occupation will
 Report by: LH
have customers coming to the home and approximately eleven (11) vehicle trips daily, which
exceeds the standards in home occupation qualifications. The home is located at the end of a
private lane, staff has been assured that there is sufficient driveway and side parking to
accommodate the employee and customers without utilizing on-street parking. The staggered
appointment times will also limit the number of vehicles present at any one time.

Recommendations
Staff is recommending approval of the home occupation with conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this site and posted on the City’s web-
page.




 Report by: LH
Ordinance and Issues

Home based business may be allowed in any residential zone, if the business is able to
follow the rules and requirements of the Riverton City Home Occupation Ordinance
found in Title 18, Chapter 190.

Riverton’s Ordinance has three (3) levels of Home Occupations based on intensity of
use. As the intensity of use increases, the level of scrutiny increases. Most home
occupations are reviewed and approved by City Staff. The Planning Commission only
sees applications that are requesting permission for certain things as defined by
ordinance, or if the application doesn’t fit within the ordinance that allows staff to
approve it, or if there is public clamor about a certain application.

Type of Home
                  Details                                              Review Process
Occupation
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Applicant
Simple            Most common, neighbors shouldn’t know it is there.   agrees to follow strict rules. PC never
                                                                       sees these.
                                                                       Approved by City Staff. Notices are
                  Activity may be noticed by neighbors, but very low
Staff Review                                                           sent to Neighbors. May escalate to
                  impact.
                                                                       PC.
                                                                       Reviewed by PC. Notices are sent to
Conditional Use   Most intense use, and some specific activities.
                                                                       Neighbors.
                                                                       Applications are screened by staff, but
Prohibited        Cannot do these activities.                          may come to the Commission for a
                                                                       ruling.

The Ordinance in 18.190 gives staff and the Commission criteria for evaluating home-occupations.
Staff can approve some home occupations that have customers or employees if the proposed
business can meet all of the Fixed Standards (18.190.060) and all of the Qualifications (18.190.070)
set forth in the ordinance.

If an application can meet the Fixed Standards, but not meet all of the Qualifications it must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission. Additionally, some uses are listed as Conditional Use (see
18.190.080) which automatically come before the Planning Commission. Any home occupation that
cannot meet the fixed standards can be denied, and the ordinance expressly prohibits some uses
(see 18.190.090).

The Commission cannot alter a Fixed Standard but can alter any of the Qualifications if the
Commission finds a less strict rule does not harm the neighborhood or create a greater impact.
Conversely, the Commission may tighten a Qualification in order to protect a neighborhood based
on the particular use or setting.


18.190.060 Fixed standards.

(4) On-Site Employees. One full-time or full-time equivalent nonresident may be employed,
volunteer, or work on the premises wherein the home occupation business is located. And only one
nonresident employee may work at the home at one time regardless of the number of home
occupations.



 Report by: LH
        18.190.070 Qualifications.

        In addition to the fixed standards set forth in RCC 18.190.060, all staff-reviewed home
        occupations must also comply with the requirements outlined in this section. If a business finds
        that they are unable to fully comply with all of the requirements as set forth in this section, the
        applicant may pursue possible approval as a conditional use home occupation.

        (2) Traffic. Vehicular traffic from business-related visitors and customers shall not exceed
        that which normally and reasonably occurs for a home in the neighborhood. With the
        exception of short term rentals the home occupation shall be limited to two business-
        related visitors or customers per hour, to a maximum of eight business-related visitors or
        customers per day.




        18.190.050 Conditional use home occupation.

        (1) The planning commission will hold a public hearing for home occupation applications that
        meet all of the fixed standards but are unable to meet all of the qualifications or have been
        referred by the planning manager.


Attachments
The following items are attached:

         1.     Public Notice including Area Map.
         2.     Application.
         3.     Site Plan.
         4.     Home Occupation




Report by: LH
                                                        NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING

                                               The Riverton City Planning Commission will hold a public hearing
                                               on Thursday, September 8, 2022 beginning at 6:30 p.m. at the
                                               Riverton City Municipal Building located at 12830 S. 1700 W. to
                                               take public comment on the following application:
Whitney Craig is seeking approval for a home-based business, “Sweethearts Salon,” an in-home
hair and nail salon to be located at 11882 Craig View Lane. She intends to have approximately six to
ten clients per day.




The Planning Commission will evaluate the application to determine if it meets City Ordinance and take
public comments before making a decision.        You received this notice because Salt Lake County
property records indicate you own property within 300 feet of the subject property. Additional
information may be obtained from the Riverton City Planning Department by calling 801-208-3149.


                                                      HOW YOU CAN PARTICIPATE
This meeting is open to the public. The staff report will be available for public review through the City website prior to the meeting.
Audio and video of the meeting will be broadcast live. Audio and written minutes will be available following the meeting. Public
comment for this item may be submitted via email to planning@rivertonutah.gov or by phone to 801-208-3149. All comments
submitted before 5:00 pm on the date of the hearing will be relayed to the Planning Commission.

Riverton City Meeting information: https://www.rivertonutah.gov/meetings/index.php.
This link will take you to the applicable meeting date and to the meeting packet, where you can review all items scheduled for review
by the Planning Commission. Staff reports will be available for inspection prior to the meeting.



                  12830 S Redwood Rd • Riverton, Utah 84065 • (801) 208-3149 • rivertonutah.gov
