                              MEMORANDUM
To:             Planning Commission
From:           Planning Department
Date:           October 12, 2023
Subject:        Adopting a minor amendment to Section 18.235.040(6), Landscape Design
                Standards, Amendments proposed by Riverton City.


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
   I move the Planning Commission recommend adoption of the amendment to Section
   18.235.040(6), Landscape Design Standards, changing the word “island” to “area”, as
   shown herein.

Background

The Riverton City Council has previously adopted water efficient landscaping standards for
development within the City. The standards are based on similar standards put forward by the
Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District and others. Although the ordinance was reviewed with
the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District and the State Division of Water Resources prior to
adoption, both agencies recently contacted the City regarding a ‘deficiency’ in that ordinance that
would affect residents of the City’s ability to qualify for state turf replacement funding, and may also
impact other funding opportunities for the City. A deadline of November 1, 2023 was given for
correcting this deficiency to allow continued qualification for funding.

The affected section is 18.235.040(6), which currently reads “Turf or sod may not be used in park
strips or landscaped islands less than eight feet wide.” The requested amendment changes the
word “islands” to “areas”. The amended code reads:

“Turf or sod may not be used in park strips or landscaped areas less than eight feet wide”.

Staff is recommending adoption of the code amendment to remain in compliance with the States
requests.

Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance amended section.



Report by: JL
10/9/2023
18.235.040 Landscape design standards.
(1) Plant Selection. Plants shall be well-suited to the microclimate and soil conditions at the project
site. Both native and locally adapted plants are acceptable. Plants with similar water needs shall be
grouped together as much as possible.

(2) Mulch. After completion of all planting, all irrigated nonturf areas shall be covered with a minimum
three- to four-inch layer of mulch to retain water, inhibit weed growth, and moderate soil
temperature. Nonporous material shall not be placed under the mulch.

(3) Soil Preparation. Soil preparation will be suitable to provide healthy growing conditions for the
plants and to encourage water infiltration and penetration. Soil preparation shall include scarifying
the soil to a minimum depth of six inches and amending the soil with organic material as per specific
recommendations of the landscape designer/landscape architect based on the soil conditions. In
some cases, soil testing will provide additional recommendations for amending the soil.

(4) Tree Selection. Tree species shall be selected based on growth characteristics and site
conditions, including available space, overhead clearance, soil conditions, exposure, and desired
color and appearance. Trees shall be selected as follows:

       (a) Broad canopy trees shall be selected where shade or screening of tall objects is desired;

       (b) Low-growing trees shall be selected for spaces under utility wires;

       (c) Select trees from which lower branches can be trimmed to maintain a healthy growth habit
       where visual clearance and natural surveillance is a concern;

       (d) Narrow or columnar trees shall be selected for small spaces, or where awnings or other
       building features limit growth, or where greater visibility is desired between buildings and the
       street for natural surveillance;

       (e) Street trees shall be planted within existing and proposed park strips, and in sidewalk tree
       wells on streets without park strips. Tree placement shall provide canopy cover (shade) and
       avoid conflicts with existing trees, retaining walls, above and below ground utilities, lighting,
       and other obstructions; and

       (f) Trees less than a two-inch caliper shall be double-staked until the trees mature to a two-
       inch caliper.

(5) Areas with slopes greater than 25 percent, or 4:1 grade, shall be landscaped with deep-rooting,
water-conserving plants that do not include turf.

(6) Turf or sod may not be used in park strips or landscaped islands areas less than eight feet wide.

(7) Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g., stormwater management areas, etc.) may receive
exceptions from slope and other limitations of this title, as approved on a case-by-case basis by the
city.




Report by: JL
10/9/2023
