                        RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                   JULY 13, 2023

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                      Staff:

Jon Gilchrist, Chair                              Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Gary Cannon                                       Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Shelly Cluff                                      Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Evan Matheson                                     Lisa Halversen, Planner
Monique Mortensen
Darren Park
Troy Rushton

1.     CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Jon Gilchrist called the Planning Commission Meeting to order at approximately 6:30
p.m.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     SIPPY, PLZ-22-8026, AN APPLICATION FOR A COMMERCIAL SITE PLAN
              TO BE LOCATED ON 0.79 ACRES IN THE C-G (GATEWAY COMMERCIAL)
              ZONE LOCATED AT 2464 WEST 12600 SOUTH. APPLICANT - KENDRIC
              SHUMWAY

Chair Gilchrist reported that there was one item on the Planning Commission Meeting
agenda relating to a Commercial Site Plan application. City Planner, Tim Prestwich reported
that the application is for a drive-thru drink shop, “Sippy,” to be located on the north side of
12600 South at 2464 West. The application is for a Final Site Plan and a Conditional Use
Permit. He explained that the Conditional Use Permit will be needed because of the drive-
thru. The property is located in the Hosac Retail Center in the C-G (Gateway Commercial)
Zone. Sippy will sit on a pad site on a partially vacant 0.79-acre parcel that was part of the
Hosac Retail Center. Mr. Prestwich stated that the Hosac Retail Center is a Master Site
Plan from 2008 that features a large multi-tenant commercial building with a smaller vacant
pad site. As for the current application, notices were sent to neighbors within 300 feet of the
property. Some were present to share comments.

Mr. Prestwich shared a site visit photograph taken from the public sidewalk. He referenced
the shipping container that was onsite. It was delivered recently but he reassured the
Commission that all architectural requirements would be met. Additional photos were
shared of the site. An area map was shown to identify the zoning. He pointed out the
location of the parcel and explained that the subject parcel and the two parcels to the left
are all part of the Hosac Retail Center. The pad was left vacant with the idea that something
would be added there. Many years prior, a drive-thru restaurant was contemplated but there
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  2
July 13, 2023

was not a tenant at that time for the space. It was set up for drive-thru use, as there were
cross-access, cross-drainage, and shared parking agreements in place.

The zoning on the subject property and all other parcels in the Hosac Retail Center is C-G,
which is consistent with the General Plan designation of Business Park. Other nearby
properties were also General Planned for Business Park but not all properties in the area
had been rezoned. Some residential zoning remained in the surrounding areas. An aerial
image was shared with the Commission. Mr. Prestwich identified the subject property and
shared additional information about the Hosac Retail Center and images for reference.

There was discussion regarding available parking on the site. Certain sections have slanted
parking, which is one-way. To add a site, there needed to be work with the one-way traffic.
The site would add five parking stalls, one of which is an Americans with Disabilities Act
(“ADA”) stall and can share parking with the existing 151 stalls in the Hosac Retail Center.
The drive-thru met the minimum requirements and would have four cars stacked before the
order window. Mr. Prestwich shared an early version of the drive-thru layout but noted that
a lot had been cleaned up since then to make sure it meets all of the City requirements.

Mr. Prestwich discussed the building. It is a 430-square-foot shipping container that will
have façade elements added to meet the Riverton City architectural requirements. There
will be a simple drive-thru with a small food preparation area and an outside entrance to the
restrooms. Since the building is in the C-G Zone, it requires three Turn of the Century
features. Mr. Prestwich reported that there is an ADA walking route from the public right-of-
way to the storefront. There are three proposed outdoor seating areas as well as
landscaping around the building. The Landscape Plan was shared. The proposal included
low-impact and waterwise landscaping but there were also areas with sod. The reason for
the sod areas was to soften the look and feel of the center. Some of the existing trees that
had to be removed would be relocated to the park strip.

The design of the building was discussed. Mr. Prestwich reported that it would not have the
exterior finish of a shipping container. The bottom portion would have brick approximately
one-third of the way up (3.5 feet out of the 8.5-tall container). As for the Turn of the Century
features, there would be brick accents, a vertical element to break up the roofline, and metal
awnings. He shared example images of buildings at various other locations. It was
proposed that there be a neon band along the building with single lights pointing down,
according to dark sky principles. The signage shown would not be approved with the
application and would be reviewed by City Staff as part of the Sign Permit process to ensure
that all signs met the size requirements. Mr. Prestwich reported that Fire, Planning,
Stormwater, and Engineering, all reviewed the application and found it to comply. Since
what is proposed is a drive-thru use in the C-G Zone, it is conditional. If the Commission
identified an element that would impact the surrounding area more than another commercial
use, an additional Condition of Approval could be drafted to mitigate that potential impact.
Staff recommended approval with the Conditions of Approval listed in the Staff Report.

Chair Gilchrist asked if it was possible to walk up and order or if only be drive-thru would be
available. Mr. Prestwich deferred to the applicant.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  3
July 13, 2023

Commissioner Cannon noted that there was a lot of landscaping for such a small building.
He wondered if it looked like a lot because it is on 0.79 acres of property. Mr. Prestwich
explained that it is 0.4 acres. The 0.79-acre is the parking lot to the north that was developed
with the Hosac Retail Center. Approximately 30% of the site was dedicated to landscaping
but only 20% is required. It was noted that the detention/retention area for the rest of the
development was to the east of the building. There was some area that the applicant could
not do anything with as it services the rest of the development. Commissioner Cannon
wondered if the City had adjusted the green percentage requirement in recent years. Mr.
Prestwich reported that the percentage of landscaping had not been adjusted but there had
been adjustments within the requirements. The application came in at a time when the City
had adopted the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District’s (“JVWCD”) suggestions.
However, they were later adopted as requirements.

Commissioner Rushton noted that there was a similar business south of the high school.
He wondered if it was also in the C-G Zone. This was confirmed. Commissioner Rushton
asked about the parcel to the north. Mr. Prestwich explained that parking is required as part
of the Hosac Retail Center, so any additional development would not work there. He
identified an island that acted as one of the storm drain ponds on the site.

Commissioner Cluff asked to review the image that showed the parking arrows.
Mr. Prestwich explained that the applicant is trying to get people to circle around so there
would need to be some internal signage or painting on the existing site. The traffic flow went
around in a loop. Commissioner Cluff was concerned that people will not go around the loop
and will come out the way they came in instead. There might be some traffic confusion if
there is not clear signage posted on the site. She wondered if it would be possible to address
that as a Condition of Approval. This was confirmed. Discussions were had about the traffic
flow and appropriate wording for a Condition of Approval.

Commissioner Matheson asked about the restroom that needs to be accessed from the
outside. He wondered how that would work as far as sanitation rules for staff. Mr. Prestwich
reported that there are food prep sinks in two places and a mop sink inside as well. This
means there are hand-cleaning stations inside for workers. The restroom would be shared
between customers and employees. The building itself would be reviewed by the Health
Department as part of the Building Permit Review. If there is an issue, it will be addressed
at that time. Commissioner Matheson wanted to know if there was an issue with the building
being a container. Mr. Prestwich explained that this was the first commercial container that
has been seen in the City but it was done in other areas. He noted that this would look
similar to the other nearby building in terms of the design features but he acknowledged that
it would have the container shape. As for potentially seeing more containers moving
forward, the response from the Planning Commission would determine whether more needs
to be done to the ordinances in the future. Staff believed this particular application meets
the minimum requirements.

Commissioner Cannon referenced the arrows and wondered how to prevent interfering with
the property owner to the northwest. City Attorney, Ryan Carter, shared some suggested
language for a Condition of Approval. It could state that the existing traffic symbols be
modified to accommodate traffic flow to the site in shared parking areas. The site utilizes
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                     4
July 13, 2023

cross-access easements, which means there is some regulatory control to make sure the
traffic flow works well in the area. The intention was to make sure the vehicles flow in the
right direction so no conflict is created. Mr. Prestwich added that the parcels are all owned
by the same trust company. Since there is no separate ownership, that would reduce the
likelihood of there being conflicts or difficulties.

Commissioner Park discussed the container and referenced similar types of development.
He did not think there was much to worry about there. Chair Gilchrist noted that containers
are specifically prohibited in the Accessory Dwelling Unit (“ADU”) Ordinance. That was
something that the City could potentially revisit in the future. There could be architectural
standards implemented for those rather than prohibiting the containers entirely.

The applicant, Kendric Shumway, introduced himself to the Commission. He was excited to
see the process move forward and available to answer questions. Commissioner Park
asked if this was the first location for Sippy, which was confirmed. The hope was to have
more locations in the future. Commissioner Cluff wondered if there had been discussions
about parking and traffic flow. Mr. Shumway reported that the agent representing the trust
company has been very involved in the process. If there are issues on the site, the traffic
flow for the parking lot would be given appropriate signs and arrows. Commissioner Park
asked to view the west elevation. He wondered if it was a walk-up window since it looked
like there was space for it. Mr. Shumway confirmed that there will be walk-up service and
outdoor seating.

Chair Gilchrist opened the public hearing.

Steve Winters reported he has a family interest in property south of the building. As a result,
he was pleased to see that the headlights in the drive-thru will point the other way rather
than south toward Redwood Road. He supported that aspect of the application but would
not support the application if that were to change in the future. Mr. Winters referenced the
lighting on the front. He had questions about the signage and how late it would be on. Until
there are clear answers about signage and lighting he would continue to have concerns.
Overall, it seemed like a good project. The proposed landscaping is excellent and he
applauded the applicant for focusing on that.

Jessica Cannon stated that she lives in the townhomes north of the proposed project. She
had concerns about the headlights as they will point toward the back of her home. There
were also concerns about the neon lights on the outside. Ms. Cannon reiterated her worries
that the lights will be disruptive and shine through her back windows. She wanted to know
about the hours of operation and the traffic levels. Other soda shops in different areas have
very long lines. If traffic backs up here, there is the potential for traffic to reach 12600 South.
She was also worried people not following the appropriate traffic flow, which could create
traffic issues in and out of the neighborhood.

There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Rushton wondered if the applicant wanted to respond to any of the concerns
expressed during the public hearing. Mr. Shumway explained that the lighting will likely be
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 5
July 13, 2023

on the same timer as the parking lot lights. From 1:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. he believed those
lights would be off. As for the traffic concerns, there are numerous ways to address them to
ensure that none of the traffic goes onto 12600 South. There is plenty of room in the parking
lot to accommodate the anticipated traffic levels. Mr. Shumway discussed the concerns
related to headlights. There is a fence there and a bit of a berm. The location of the
relocated trees was identified on an image of the area. Mr. Shumway added that Sippy does
not plan to be open late. He believed 9:00 p.m. was the cutoff.

Commissioner Matheson asked about the fence to the north. He wondered how tall the
fence is and what it will be constructed of. Mr. Prestwich reported that it is a six-foot vinyl
fence. Commissioner Park asked about the hours of operation. Mr. Shumway reported that
the location will be open from 7:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Commissioner Park wanted additional
details about the other signs in the Hosac Retail Center and whether they are lit at night. It
was confirmed that other signs are lit at night.

Commissioner Cluff asked about the neon band proposed to go around the building and
wondered if that was something that was typically allowed or whether that would be an
exception. Mr. Prestwich reported that it is part of the building lighting and is subject to
Planning Commission review. While it is not done all the time, it is occasionally. He
referenced other buildings with similar lighting. Commissioner Cluff asked if a lighting
analysis had been performed. Mr. Prestwich confirmed that one had been done and shared
that with the Commission. However, the Photometric Plan did not account for headlights
from cars in the drive-thru. Commissioner Cluff asked how far headlights are visible. Mr.
Prestwich believed it was 200 feet. As for signage, Mr. Prestwich explained that it would be
possible for the applicant to have one that is 15% of one facade as well as two 30-square-
foot signs.

Commissioner Cannon asked about the maximum height permitted in the zone.
Mr. Prestwich believed it was 50 feet. The signs could go within a foot of the top of the
building. It could then be 15% of the façade. Commissioner Park shared information about
headlights. High-beam headlights shone at an angle to illuminate the road from 350 to 400
feet ahead or twice as far as low beams. As a result, someone rolling through the drive-thru
should have a reach that is 175 to 200 feet on their headlights.

Commissioner Rushton moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE PLZ 22-
8026, "Sippy" Final Site Plan, with the following conditions:

       1.     Site Plan improvements and the buildings shall be consistent with the
              plans presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise
              noted.

       2.     The applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining Staff redlines on the
              civil plans.

       3.     Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with the
              Riverton City Standards and Ordinances, and with the recommendations
              of the Riverton City Engineering Division.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                         6
July 13, 2023


      4.    The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water
            Management Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances.

      5.    A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any
            construction grading on the site.

      6.    The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton
            City Standards and Ordinances, including International Building and Fire
            Codes.

      7.    The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.

      8.    Rooftop mechanical shall be screened by parapet walls or rooftop
            screens.

      9.    Wall-mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.

      10.   Existing traffic symbols and shared parking areas be modified to
            accommodate the traffic flow for the site.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed unanimously.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    None.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 7:22 p.m.
