Approved: 11.14.24

                       RIVERTON CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                MEETING MINUTES
                                OCTOBER 10, 2024

The Riverton City Planning Commission convened at approximately 6:30 p.m. in the
Riverton City Hall, 12830 South Redwood Road, Riverton Utah.

Planning Commission Members:                     Staff:

Evan Matheson, Chair                             Jason Lethbridge, Development Services Director
Monique Beck                                     Matt Cassel, City Engineer
Gary Cannon                                      Tim Prestwich, City Planner
Shelly Cluff                                     Ryan Carter, City Attorney
Crystal Keele

1.            CALL TO ORDER/ROLL CALL

Chair Evan Matheson called the meeting to order at approximately 6:30 PM.

2.     PUBLIC HEARINGS

       A.     “MCCAY    DEVELOPMENT     AGREEMENT,”     PLZ-24-6001, AN
              APPLICATION TO DEVELOP PROPERTY AT 2682 WEST 13400 SOUTH
              WITH EXCEPTIONS TO THE CITY CODE. THIS ITEM WAS CONTINUED
              FROM THE SEPTEMBER 12, 2024, PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING.
              APPLICANT – DANIEL MCCAY.

Development Services Director, Jason Lethbridge presented the Staff Report and stated
that the subject property is a vacant lot on the corner of 13400 South and 2700 West. The
application was for a Development Agreement, which is a newer tool for Riverton City that
can allow variations on existing Code. The application was tabled at the last meeting to
allow the applicant time to respond to concerns and provide additional information.

Commissioner Cannon indicated that he was not present at the September 12, 2024,
Planning Commission Meeting but he reviewed the minutes at length. He asked the purpose
behind not going through the regular rezoning process. Mr. Lethbridge noted that in the past
the City initiated the Development Agreement process for larger developments such as
Mountain View Village and this application was the first instance of an applicant requesting
a Development Agreement. Both City Ordinance and State Code allow developers to apply
for such agreements rather than request rezoning or Code changes.

City Attorney, Ryan Carter stated that with smaller projects, even if the rezoning is approved
for higher density, there may still be problems with rules regarding things like setback
requirements. A Development Agreement is a tailored ordinance. He referred to Section
3.2.1 on page 8 of the proposed Development Agreement, which contains a list of exceptions
to vested law. These are areas where the project envisioned by the applicant would not
comply with the existing Zoning Code. The Development Agreement is a tool that allows
exceptions to Code that are unique to the specific project.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                    2
October 10, 2024



In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, it was noted that State Code requires
Development Agreements to be treated with equal dignity to rezoning requests. They must
go through the same hearing processes, so they take the same amount of time. However,
a Development Agreement can speed up some of the site-specific processes.

Commissioner Cannon referred to the concept rendering and asked if that plan could
change. Mr. Carter stated that no exhibits were incorporated into the Development
Agreement and he did not believe the concept rendering had been stated to be an exhibit.
If the Development Agreement were approved, the criteria specifically listed in the
agreement could not change, but anything not specified could be altered.

Commissioner Cluff indicated that in other Development Agreements, there has been a clear
incentive or reason the City would be motivated to carve out exceptions for a specific
development and asked if that is standard practice. Mr. Lethbridge stated that has been the
case because Development Agreements have historically been initiated by the City.

The applicant, Daniel McCay stated that his takeaways from the September 12, 2024,
Planning Commission Meeting were that there were concerns about traffic, ingress, and
egress, as well as the proposed density. He also believed some residents took issue with
him being a free-market capitalist.

With regard to the first issue, the Traffic Study is a 26-year projection from 2024 to 2050
based on data obtained from the Wasatch Front Regional Council (“WFRC”). It indicates
that average daily trips on 2700 West will be capped at 7,900 in 2040 through 2050, although
Mr. McCay did not believe that included an analysis of traffic on 2700 West after the
Bangerter Highway interchange is completed. On 13400 South, traffic is expected to
increase from 11,000 daily trips to 16,000. He presented that information to Ryan Hales
from Hales Engineering, who recommended one ingress and egress point rather than three.
The west exit is favored. The light stops traffic, and visibility is best looking north and south.
Additionally, speeds are lower at the beginning of a block. There are also no plans for
expanding 2700 West north of 13400 South. The east exit is not favored because the light
causes traffic backups and there is less visibility. There are also plans to expand 13400
South, including a potential right-hand turn lane.

Mr. McCay presented his first option, which was for three proposed townhomes facing west
with a 15-foot shared driveway in front of the units. Residents would then have room to back
out of their private driveway and pull out onto the street instead of backing onto it. It would
be safer than the original proposal.

The second option was for two townhomes also facing west. The ground floor square
footage would be comparable between the two options. The property address is listed on
13400 South but he was open to the drive aisle being on either frontage.

The third option presented was for two separate homes facing 2700 West. The homes would
have the same floor plan as the two attached homes but with a small setback between them.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                 3
October 10, 2024


Mr. McCay indicated that the homes would sit as far to the north as possible. People who
live in the area are used to being able to look across that lot and see approaching traffic, so
he would retain as much visibility on that corner as possible. Currently, there is a 15-foot
side yard setback but this option would require an exception for a 12-foot setback. He also
presented an option with the same homes facing 13400 South. Mr. McCay then presented
a cost comparison of the market values of the different home configurations.

Commissioner Cluff asked Mr. McCay to address Commissioner Cannon’s earlier question
about his intention with the Development Agreement versus a more traditional rezoning
application. Mr. McCay reported that he discussed the best approach with Staff. They
presented the option of amending the Ordinance to allow for his specific needs for the
property but he did not believe that was a viable solution. He believes a Development
Agreement is favorable because it will allow decisions to be made based on what is best
and most feasible for the lot.

With regard to why a single-family home was not an option, Mr. McCay stated that it would
not work financially. He believes the benefits of allowing the multi-family project to proceed
include correcting the safety and aesthetic issues with the existing lot.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cannon, Mr. McCay confirmed that the
townhomes would each have a two-car garage. Commissioner Cannon stated that his
original concern about three driveways exiting on 13400 South was safety and visibility, and
he was glad it was addressed. He asked Staff how the side yard setbacks for each option
align with City Code, and it was noted that they are comparable to RM-6 setbacks.
Mr. McCay stated that the townhome footprints are narrower than the twin home footprints.
The twin homes have setbacks of 22 feet and 24 feet facing west. If separated, they are
approximately 10 feet apart. Separating the units adds cost to them, but it will also require
an exception for the side yard setbacks between and on the north side of units.

Chair Matheson stated that the property owner knew the parcel was zoned for a single-
family home when he purchased it and that it would require rezoning. He could not imagine
Mr. McCay would have purchased it had he not intended to make a profit. Mr. McCay stated
that he would make a profit of approximately 8.5%. He stated that he dislikes the lot and
would like to make it better. He knows that he purchased it with the existing zoning, and if
the Development Agreement was not approved, he intended to sell the property even if at a
loss. He was committed to finding something that works for the property and he believed
the zoning is the reason why the lot has remained vacant.

Commissioner Cluff stated that Mr. McCay is in the unique position of understanding the
views of both the developer and legislators and asked how he would feel as a developer if
he saw the open piece of farmland on one corner and single-family homes and a set of
townhomes on the other corners. Mr. McCay stated that he drove by the lot for 20 years
and never thought he could make a lot of money from it. He has three adult children looking
for a house who will likely have to buy in Eagle Mountain because Riverton is no longer a
community where families can build. A $400,000 or $500,000 townhome is very expensive
compared to what some homeowners in the area paid because the market has gone crazy.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  4
October 10, 2024


At the beginning of 2024, Utah was 37,000 homes behind what the market needs to provide
housing for the next generation.

When Mr. McCay built his second home in Riverton, it was on a 0.33-acre lot off 3600 West
and 12900 South. The houses next to it were horse properties with one-acre lots. At the
Planning Commission Meeting, a resident said that they did not want the Walmart kids that
were going to move into those houses to play with their Nordstrom kids, and he found that
very concerning. He believes the housing paradigm is upside down and they will be in a
worse situation in five or 10 years if they keep going down that path. For example, Denver,
Colorado has done away with its single-family density and no longer allows single-family
homes without Development Agreements.

Commissioner Cannon agreed that the lot is not attractive in its current state and anything
built on it will be an improvement. He believes Mr. McCay is trying to improve the lot and
deserves to make a profit on it. Mr. McCay was hoping his children would move into the
townhomes. Commissioner Cannon stated that to qualify for a home, you have to make
$110,000 per year, and he does not know many 30-year-olds who make that much. He
believed the application provided an opportunity to create more affordable homes in this
area of Riverton.

Commissioner Cluff asked if it would be precedent-setting to have a Development
Agreement for townhomes on this lot. Mr. Carter stated that approval would not force those
conditions to be spread throughout the area. The Planning Commission would need to
decide if approval would have persuasive strength in subsequent meetings, but each
application is considered individually. The Planning Commission considers the best use for
the property given market demands, the needs of the community, and the ability of public
infrastructure to serve it.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Kenneth Beck reported that he lives three blocks from the subject property. He has lived in
Riverton for 73 years and used to farm on the subject property. He did not believe the lot
was big enough for two homes. It should have one home with a driveway to the south. He
was concerned that allowing townhomes would open up other properties to townhome
development. The intersection is already very congested especially before and after school.
He suggested that the City purchase the property and turn it into a park. Townhomes could
possibly be used as rentals, and they attract different people.

Darren Kirkham reported that he owns a property to the west of the church. He understands
what Mr. McCay is trying to do and believes he has good intentions, but it is not zoned as a
multi-family property for a reason. Other people have requested rezoning to multi-family
and were denied. If it was possible to only allow multi-family on the subject lot and not create
a precedent, he would be in favor of it. However, he believes it would set a precedent. If
the request were approved, he would consider requesting the same type of Development
Agreement. If he is thinking that way, many other property owners will consider it as well.
When the property across the street sells, that is space for multi-family housing. He lives in
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                  5
October 10, 2024


the area and does not want it to look like Herriman, which is an overpopulated traffic
nightmare. He believes they would be trading an evil pit for the larger evil of setting the
precedent for many multi-family properties.

Candy London stated that when she thinks of a park for the property, she does not mean a
park with swings and children playing, but a grassy area like at the intersection of 12600
South and Redwood Road or the area north of the church on 2700 West. At the meeting on
September 12, 2024, the applicant before Mr. McCay wanted to develop multi-family housing
on Redwood Road. They were denied and told not to come back with a new proposal. They
knew how it was zoned when they purchased it, and they had a right to build according to
that zoning. She did not understand why this property was being revisited because if it
applied to the other applicant, it should apply to this applicant as well. She knows a lot of
people who have single-family homes with a full basement apartment, and that is a way to
have two families in a home without changing the character of the neighborhood.

Heather Fairmont reported that she lives adjacent to the subject property. Mr. McCay is a
senator and likes making money, and there are probably a lot of people on his payroll. She
believes multi-level housing brings low-class people to the neighborhood because she lived
in West Valley and saw that happen. She moved to a single-family, 0.25-acre lot minimum
neighborhood in Riverton for a reason. She is young and worked hard to afford her home.
The house to the north is a rental and it is not properly maintained. The owners will not keep
up their yard just because there is a new home behind it. Nobody wants multi-family homes
on the lot, and she believes they should maintain old town Riverton.

Kelly Peterson reported that he lives on Vista Meadows Drive. He circulated the petition
against the development around his neighborhood. He spent 10 to 15 minutes at each
house because he stopped to speak with people. Their main concern was the precedent
that would be set for the field across the road.

Nyall London stated that the petition forwarded to the Planning Commission indicated that
most residents want a single-family home on the lot, and he hoped they would consider that.
Everyone is worried about the property across the street, and he thought it would be
wonderful if Riverton could acquire that property and put a park there.

Tammy Chadwell referred to Mr. McCay’s comments about the property to the north of the
lot in question and stated that the property has always been unkempt. Her concern is that
if they build on the lot, there will be children living in the homes and children need places to
play. If too many homes are allowed on the lot, it will only leave a small area for children to
play in. Both parents will need to work to afford the homes. She has a 44-year-old son who
cannot afford a home in Utah, so she understands the desire to have affordable homes for
her children. A park was ruled out for the lot because of the danger to children, but if they
put homes there, they need to make sure there is enough room for a fenced yard so the
children can play.

Tracy Halverson reported that she lives on the west side of Riverton. High-density housing
is now allowed there and she cannot even get out into traffic. She spoke to Mr. McCay’s
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                6
October 10, 2024


comment about affordable housing and indicated that that was the legislature’s fault. First-
time buyer funds are already being distributed from tax dollars and she believes enough is
enough. Mr. McCay purchased the land knowing its zoning. If it is rezoned, she fears they
will do the same thing that was done across from her home where it is all high-density
housing. It would ruin the corner and look odd, and she urged the Planning Commission to
retain the current zoning.

Mike Baird lives within 1,000 feet of the subject property. He did not see Mr. McCay as an
evil capitalist but as a talented and skilled politician. His concerns were unchanged from the
previous meeting. It is a busy corner, and adding more homes will add issues with getting
in and out of the driveway. He appreciated the fact that Chair Matheson said he was against
rezoning at the last meeting. With regard to the park idea, the July 4th Parade goes by that
intersection, and a grassy area for people to watch the parade would be nice. He has seen
a lot of developers go bankrupt, and he knows a lot of people whose homes have lost value
due to high-density housing or commercial development. He was opposed to allowing multi-
family housing. The Planning Commission does a great job, but it is not their job to see that
developers make money. Instead, it is their job to ensure that citizens’ property values do
not decline.

Angel Reyes commented that the previous Planning Commission Meeting was the first City
meeting he has attended. Mr. Matheson began the meeting by stating that they echo the
voice of the people, and he respected that. At that meeting, they denied a similar
development on Redwood Road, and it was difficult not to believe that there was a conflict
of interest in the way this application was continued. He thought they seemed to be trying
to find a backdoor way to build multi-family homes in a single-family zone. At the last
meeting, only one person who spoke was in favor of the development, and he did not live in
the area.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Mr. McCay addressed the public comments. He appreciated Mr. Beck’s comment and
stated that it is important to remain connected to who we are.

With regard to the precedent approval may set to allow townhomes on the farm to the south,
the General Plan for the property is a minimum lot size of 10,000 square feet, which is
approximately 3.5 units per acre. He appreciated the anxiety of having a farm across the
street and not knowing what it would be in the future and believed it would likely have a
commercial component. If he were the developer, he would try to have a commercial use
on the Bangerter Highway frontage, and as a resident, he would be more afraid of
commercial uses than of $400,000 or $500,000 townhomes because retail areas attract
more crime. Retail also has more trips per day than townhomes. The City also wants sales
tax revenue from retail developments, and he believes the Planning Commission and City
Council would allow high-density housing along with the retail. When Walmart came in on
13400 South, everyone hated the idea. The area was originally planned to include a movie
theater complex and retail space. Residents sued the developer to stop the Walmart, and
as a result, all of the other retail went to 11400 South. The Walmart was built with high-
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                   7
October 10, 2024


density housing surrounding it. In his experience, the bigger concern is what happens with
retail.

With respect to the statement that properties can have Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”),
he did not believe that would be an effective solution for this property.

With regard to the statement that because he is a senator, Mr. McCay has a lot of people
on his payroll, he stated that he is self-employed and has no employees.

With respect to conflicts of interest, he stated that his wife has been on the Riverton City
Council for seven years. She has recused herself from the conversation related to the
property and will not vote on the issue.

Pertaining to the assertion that townhomes will bring low-class people to Riverton, he did
not have an answer because things like that should not be said about people who might live
in the community.

He understood the concern about children living on the property and is trying to preserve as
much backyard space as possible. He did not like including room for turnarounds in front of
the units, but he was trying to weigh that safety benefit against the loss of the backyard.
Within a few feet of the lot is Kauri Sue Hamilton School, which has a big field and a large
playground area. Centennial Park is also down the street. He did not know if a skilled
politician would ever develop and ask to increase density in their own neighborhood, and he
believes he is losing votes by trying to improve the corner.

Mr. McCay asked for the Planning Commission’s input on their preferences for the property.
If the Planning Commission determined that the only path to approval would be a single-
family home, he would take the matter to the City Council and ask if they agree. If they do
not agree, he will consider other options to bring back before the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Cannon lives close to the subject property and recognizes the pride residents
have in their neighborhood. The City is not in the business of buying property to build parks,
and he does not believe a lighted corner is the best place for children to play. Kauri Sue
Hamilton School is across the street. They have a large park and do not complain about
children playing in the park after school hours. If multi-family housing is allowed on the
subject property, it will not automatically allow for multi-family across the street. There is an
existing trailer court to the south, which is multi-family housing. He would also likely speak
in opposition to the project if he lived in the neighborhood, but he believes it is the highest
and best use for the property. It will provide more affordable housing, which Riverton needs.

Chair Matheson believes that the farm to the south will be developed with interior roads for
ingress and egress and access to Bangerter Highway and become high-density housing but
noted that the property is very different from the small corner lot that is zoned for single-
family housing. He was opposed to rezoning the property for something that did not fit the
neighborhood. Years earlier, he served as a Republican State Delegate, and Mr. McCay
came to his home at midnight and spoke until about 1:00 a.m. He was very impressed with
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                8
October 10, 2024


Mr. McCay’s diligence. However, this was a different issue. He did not believe it would be
safe to build multi-family homes on that corner. The farm to the south is an issue for the
future. He believes Mr. McCay considered the zoning when he purchased the property and
decided to take his chances. If the Planning Commission were to approve the Development
Agreement, it would appear that they were doing so based on Mr. McCay’s status as a
senator rather than the will of the people, and he did not believe that was a good precedent
to set. He believes it should be a single-family home, potentially with an ADU.

Commissioner Cluff thanked her fellow Commissioners for their thoughts. She did not
believe multi-family housing was a fit for this parcel. She does not like how the property
currently looks but believes there are other ways to improve it. She noted that two
developers have expressed how excited they would be to see multi-family housing
approved, and how eagerly they would seek out their own multi-family projects. She was
inclined to deny the application.

Commissioner Matheson moved that the Planning Commission forward a
recommendation of DENIAL of Application PLZ-24-6001, adopting the Development
Agreement for 2682 West 13400 South, thus keeping the existing R-2 Single Family
Zoning. Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. Vote on Motion: Commissioner
Keele-Yes, Commissioner Matheson-Yes, Commissioner Cluff-Yes, Commissioner
Beck-Yes, Commissioner Cannon-No. The motion passed 4-to-1.

       B.     “MY STORAGE AMENDMENT 2” PLZ-24-8012, AN AMENDED
              CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND SITE PLAN FOR A COMMERCIAL
              STORAGE UNIT DEVELOPMENT LOCATED AT 13487 SOUTH 5600
              WEST. APPLICANT – JEFFREY BERNSON.

City Planner, Tim Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that the Site Plan was
brought before the Commission three times previously. There were issues with the
Conditional Use Permit that took time to get through. For business reasons, the applicant
decided to decrease the size of one building from two stories to one story. Much of the
original discussion was around how the two-story building would impact the park and houses
to the south, which this amendment would resolve.

The subject property is on the far west side of the City. It adjoins Rosewater Drive but there
is an eight-foot masonry wall separating the property. There is also a six-foot masonry wall
on the park frontage. The storage units will be accessed by 5600 West. The previously
approved Site Plan and elevations were reviewed. The application changes Building 300,
but all other buildings will remain the same. There will also be slight changes to the
landscaping, including the removal of trees that were required by the Planning Commission
to shield the second-story and rooftop mechanical equipment. With the amendment to
remove the second story, the applicant requested the removal of the trees so they could
widen the asphalt driveway.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed the new elevations, which include some banding on the larger wall
expanses, lowering of the second story, and the addition of a parapet wall and screening to
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                                9
October 10, 2024


hide the mechanical equipment. There were minor changes to the storefront in Building 100.
Staff reviewed the amendment and recommended that the Commission approve the
application subject to the conditions outlined in the Staff Report. Notices were sent to
property owners within 300 feet of the subject property and no comments were received.

In response to a question from Commissioner Cluff, Mr. Prestwich clarified that the trees
that will be removed are on the inside of the property. Along Rosewater Drive, they will
remove the City-maintained sod and install gravel or another low-impact surface and trees
chosen by City staff to help screen it. The builder will install the trees, but they will then
belong to and be maintained by the City.

Chair Matheson reported that the previous discussion regarding building height is no longer
relevant because the applicant decided to lower it. Mr. Prestwich stated that the extra trees
were added to screen it because the second story was visible to some neighboring homes.
The wall and exterior trees will now provide adequate shielding.

Whitney Bernson spoke on behalf of the applicant and stated that the building on the west
side will have a parapet. They are not changing the elevation but it will be a two-story
building. The main building was originally slated to have two stories above grade and one
basement level but will now only be one story. The property owners met with residents on
several occasions to find solutions they would find acceptable, and he believes they will be
very happy with the change.

Chair Matheson opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public
hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-24-8012, My Storage Riverton Final Site Plan and Conditional Use Permit subject
to the following conditions:

       1.     The Site Plan and Building Architecture may be amended as shown.

       2.     The rooftop mechanical must be screened.

       3.     All other Site Plan Improvements shall be consistent with the plans
              previously approved by the Planning Commission.

Commissioner Cannon seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

       C.     “MYERS PARK PHASE 2 PRIVATE LANE” PLZ-24-2030, AN
              APPLICATION FOR A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT FOR A PRIVATE LANE
              IN A FUTURE RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION AT APPROXIMATELY 2400
              WEST 11800 SOUTH. APPLICANT – RANDY MOORE.

Mr. Prestwich presented the Staff Report and stated that Myers Park Phase 1 was approved
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                               10
October 10, 2024


in 2022 and is currently under construction. Myers Park Phase 2 was rezoned with the same
zoning as Myers Park Phase 1, and the need for a private lane was recognized when Phase
1 was approved. The phases have separate developers.

Mr. Prestwich reviewed the proposed Site Plan. The property is bordered by Midas Creek,
the canal, and 11800 South. The shared private lane will enter from the east through Myers
Park Phase 1 and serve the 15 lots in Phase 2. The Fire Code allows 30 lots to share a
single access and the two phases have a total of 29. The private lane will be 32 feet wide,
including a mountable curb to match Phase 1. Staff considered requiring an additional
access point, but site grading is not ideal, and it would make some lots unusable.

The questions before the Planning Commission were whether the project qualifies for a
private lane and what that private lane will look like. Staff determined that it met the
necessary requirements. The 32-foot private lane would allow for on-street parking and it
will have a cul-de-sac for turnarounds. Mr. Prestwich noted that the subdivision plant would
come before the Planning Commission for approval at a later date.

Notices were sent to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property and one
comment was received. A neighbor on the other side of the canal asked that the trees be
protected because they add value and enjoyment to their properties. The trees were not
part of the Conditional Use Permit and the City does not regulate backyard trees, so that
would be a private decision.

Commissioner Cluff asked for clarification on the third recommended Condition of Approval.
Mr. Prestwich indicated that “No Parking” signs would not be required as the private lane
will be 32 feet wide.

The applicant, Randy Moore from Moore Homes, thanked the Planning Commission for
reviewing the application. When Myers Park Phase 1 was being considered for approval,
he raised concerns that they should be provided access to develop the Phase 2 property. A
Shared Access Agreement was reached with the developer of Phase 1 that includes the
private lane as well as master meters for culinary and irrigation water. The road into Phase 1
is wider to provide access to both phases. He believes Phase 2 will be a very nice
development. The original developer of Phase 1 sold the lots, and another building is
completing the project. Moore Homes will maintain the same level of quality throughout
Phase 2.

Private roads with a single access gives them the ability to include a security gate, which
would provide more control over access to the community. Mr. Moore did not believe a
second access would add anything to the development as the majority of the traffic would
use the existing road. Grading would also be a concern. Additionally, there would be
remnant parcels on the sides of the new road, and this would affect two of the largest lots in
the development.

Commissioner Cannon recommended that Mr. Holmes consider adding a French drain
system at the rear of the canal-adjacent lots.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                              11
October 10, 2024



Chair Matheson opened the public hearing.

Tom Davis reported that he owns a home on the west side of the canal. He attended the
Planning Commission hearing on Phase 1 to speak against rezoning it to R-3 and he felt like
his concerns were being realized. They are building very tall homes on the small lots. He
and his neighbors are concerned about privacy and one neighbor voiced that concern in his
written comment about the trees. They did not purchase their homes anticipating that tall
homes would be behind them with clear sight of their backyards. His concerns with R-3
zoning are not socioeconomic, but rather about privacy. He would appreciate a
Development Agreement that addresses the privacy issue prior to authorizing the private
lane. He understood that they lost on the R-3 zoning. He was also concerned about the
width of the private lane because it would push the homes closer to the canal.

After discussion, it was clarified that Myers Park Phase 2 is zoned R-4 SD, so it is the same
zone as Mr. Davis’s subdivision. Mr. Holmes stated that the lot setbacks would also be the
same. The lots are shaped differently, but the average lot size in Phase 2 is 0.29 acres, and
approximately one-third of the lots are 0.33 acres.

There were no further public comments. The public hearing was closed.

Commissioner Cluff stated that, when considering the private lane for Phase 1, the Planning
Commission debated the need for sidewalks on both sides of the lane and how wide the
lane should be.

Commissioner Keele moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE Application
PLZ-24-2030, Myers Park Phase 2 Private Lane subject to the following conditions:

      1.     The private lane shall follow Riverton City Code for development on
             private lanes.

      2.     Approval is for a private lane, with up to fourteen (14) lots accessing the
             private lane.

      3.     The private lane shall match the width and design of the adjoining Myers
             Park with at least 32-foor paved surface and signed with “No Parking” as
             required by Fire Code.

      4.     The private lane shall be paved in either asphalt or concrete according
             to the requirements of the Unified Fire Authority and the Riverton City
             Standards and Specifications.

      5.     The private lane shall include a turnaround designed and installed to the
             standards of the Unified Fire Authority and Riverton City Standards and
             Specifications.
Riverton City Planning Commission Meeting                                        12
October 10, 2024


      6.    The private lane shall be named and signed according to Riverton City
            standards.

      7.    The subject parcel’s driveways, including the private lane entrance, shall
            conform to Riverton City Standards for driveways, including but not
            limited to width, number of driveways, and separation distance between
            driveways.

      8.    The private lane shall be maintained by the homeowners, no City
            maintenance will be performed on the private lane.

      9.    Written CC&Rs or an agreement for shared access and maintenance of
            the private lane must be submitted with the subdivision.

      10.   No construction on the lane may begin before a Subdivision Plan is
            approved by Riverton City.

Commissioner Cluff seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous
consent of the Commission.

3.    DECISION ITEMS

      A.    None.

4.    DISCUSSION ITEMS

      A.    None.

5.    MINUTES

      A.    MINUTES FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING HELD ON
            SEPTEMBER 12, 2024.

Commissioner Cluff moved that the Planning Commission APPROVE the Planning
Commission Meeting Minutes of September 12, 2024, as reported. Commissioner
Beck seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the
Commission.

6.    ADJOURNMENT

The meeting adjourned at approximately 8:22 PM.
