                             MEMORANDUM
To:              Planning Commission
From:            Planning Department
Date:            March 26, 2026
Subject:         PLZ-25-8021, “3 Point Mooring,” a final commercial site plan application for
                 property located at 12538 South Rhetski Lane. Applicant – Chad and Missy
                 Collard


This application is a public hearing and administrative action item.
In reviewing the application, the Planning Commission is serving an administrative function,
decisions are based on substantial evidence.

Example Motions
I move the Planning Commission approve PLZ-25-8021 “3 Point Mooring,” a final commercial
site plan for property located at 12538 South Rhetski Lane with the following conditions:

    1. The site may utilize a zero lot line setback on the north property line.
    2. Site Improvements and the Building, including the exterior finish, dumpster enclosures,
        and landscaping, and all other improvements shall be consistent with the plans
        presented to the Planning Commission except where otherwise noted.
    3. Applicant shall correct or resolve the remaining staff redlines.
    4. Building and Site lighting shall be installed and screened according to Riverton City
        Standards.
    5. Roof top mechanical shall be screened from view.
    6. Wall mounted service panels shall be painted to match the building.
    7. The site and structures shall comply with any and all applicable Riverton City Standards
        and ordinances, including the International Building and Fire Codes.
    8. Storm drainage systems and accommodations shall comply with Riverton City Standards
        and ordinances, and with the recommendations of the Riverton City Engineering
        Division. An offsite Storm Drain Pond must be built by others prior to this site getting
        occupancy from Riverton City.
    9. The Applicant must create and agree to follow a Long-Term Storm Water Management
        Plan according to Riverton City standards and ordinances prior to receiving building
        occupancy.
    10. A Land Disturbance Permit must be issued by the City prior to any construction grading
        on the site.
    11. The applicant must obtain final approval from utility providers.




Report by: TJP
3/24/2026
Background
This final site plan application is for a commercial site in the Riverton Meadows Commercial
Subdivision located near the northeast corner of Bangerter Highway and 12600 South. The
Riverton Meadows subdivision includes current commercial buildings for Lowes, Black Bear
Diner, 5 Guys, and others. The area zoning is Commercial Regional (C-R), and no other
zoning borders the subject property.

The subject property is three (3) remnant parcels which UDOT sold as surplus after UDOT
acquired property (including Texas Roadhouse) for the widening of Bangerter and the 12600
South underpass. The parcels included are:
   1- 27-29-353-026, 0.09 acres.
   2- 27-29-353-027, 0.11 acres.
   3- 27-29-353-022, 0.32 acres.
Combining for a total of 0.52-acres.

This site presents a number of challenges which the applicant and her design team worked
through to make a viable commercial project. These issues include: the center’s pylon sign is
located on the property, UDOT reserved a number of easements on the property, the shape of
the site, and existing infrastructure on the adjoining sites which was untouched by UDOT.

The applicant has worked with City Staff, UDOT, utility companies and with the adjoining
property owners and other property owners in the center to work through many issues and
design a site that meets city ordinance. Because of the numerous obstacles and because of
the way the other property owners use their property the applicant is requesting a Conditional
Use for a Zero Lot Line on the north property line. The north parcel was another UDOT remnant
which was sold to Lowes Home Center and is now used for Lowe’s outdoor seasonal storage.
A zero-lot line on this property line does not impede Lowes’ ability to use the property now, or in
the future.

The proposed building is only 4,491-sf. Utilizing a zero lot line on the north, the proposed
building is able to meet all other city setback requirements. Twenty parking stalls are required
and provided. The site exceeds the 20% landscape requirement with 25 percent of the site in
landscaping, including keeping the existing pylon sign in a landscaped area.

There is no fencing requirements on this site.

Site lighting shown appears to be compliant with city code, and condition #3 states that lighting
must be installed per city code which includes positioning the light fixtures or using shielding to
prevent direct lighting into the adjoining residential properties.

The building design is a combination of red brick, cream efis (stucco) and painted honed block.
Because this is in an approved center the building must have 2 elements of
cohesion/consistency with the existing buildings. Lowes utilizes red brick, earth tone stucco,
and split face block. Many of the other buildings in the center use split face block, and earth
tone stucco, but utilize stone rather than brick. However, staff notes there is not a consistent
stone pattern as it varies in colors from blonde to darker earth tones and can be found as round
cobble and stacked.

Building height meets city standards, and rooftop mechanical is below a parapet wall.



Report by: TJP
3/24/2026
For the west, east and south building façade, the building meets city standards for materials,
colors, bulk, and roofline. The north line which they are requesting to use a zero lot line, is
made of only one material and color, and does not have variations in roofline or wall bulk. The
commission must evaluate and consider what 4-sided architecture means in the context of a
wall that could be shared with another building.


Recommendations

Staff representing Planning, Fire, Engineering, Water and Storm Water have reviewed these
plans and are recommending approval with the conditions listed above.

Notices were sent to neighbors within 300-ft. At the time of this report staff had received one
communication from a neighbor requesting additional information.




Attachments
The following items are attached:
        1. Public Notice including area map.
        2. Application.
        3. Proposed Elevations.
        4. Civil Site Plan.
        5. Landscape Plan.
        6. Electrical site plan.




Report by: TJP
3/24/2026
