       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2




                            PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
                                     BY AND BETWEEN
                REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF RIVERTON CITY
                                             AND
                              Osmond Enterprises, LLC.
                                          FOR THE
                    DOWNTOWN REDWOOD ROAD
                COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT PROJECT AREA


        This Participation Agreement (the “Agreement”) is made and entered into as of
this ______ day of June, 2024 (the “Effective Date”), by and between the Riverton City
Redevelopment Agency, a political subdivision of the State of Utah (the “Agency”),
operating under the Utah Community Reinvestment Agency Act, Title 17C of the Utah
Code (the “Act” or its predecessor statutes) and Osmond Enterprises, LLC., a Utah
limited liability company (“Participant”), This Participation Agreement is entered into
under the authority of Section 17C-1-409 of the Act. Participant and the Agency from
time to time may be referred to herein individually as a “Party” and collectively as the
“Parties.” The Parties do hereby covenant and agree as follows:

1.        SUBJECT OF AGREEMENT

       1.1.       Purpose of the Agreement

The purpose of this Participation Agreement is to carry out, in part, the Project Area Plan
(the “Plan”) for the Downtown Redwood Road Community Reinvestment Project Area
(the “Project Area”) by providing for the conveyance of real property by the Agency to
the Participant at less than fair market value to cause the Participant to develop,
Construct, and operate the Paige Retail Plaza within the Project Area. A copy of the Plan
is attached hereto as Exhibit A. This Agreement promotes economic development within
Riverton City (the “City”), and the health, safety, and welfare of its residents, and in accord
with public purposes. The terms Participant, Participation Agreement, Agency, Project
Area, and Project Area Plan, have the same definition as found in the Act.

       1.2.       The Project Area

The Project Area is located within the boundaries of the City and the Agency. A map, and
the legal description of the Project Area are included in the Plan.


Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                        Page 1
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


       1.3.      Adoption of the Plan

This Agreement complies with the provisions of the Plan, as adopted, and ordained on
April 5, 2022, by the governing board of the Agency and by the City Council of Riverton
City in accordance with Section Chapter 5 Part 1 of the Act.

       1.4.      Description of Participant’s Project

The Participant’s development project (the Participant’s Project”) is expected to include
[description of development.] The Participant’s Project will be located within the Project
Area and shall consist of approximately 3.0 acres within the Project Area, (the “Project
Site”). A concept site plan (“Site Plan”) is attached hereto as Exhibit B. Several parcels
within the Project Site are currently owned by the Agency but may be conveyed to the
Participant upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and according to the terms set forth
in this Agreement.

       1.5.      Parties to the Agreement

                  1.5.1.     The Agency

The Agency is a public body, corporate and politic, exercising governmental functions
and powers, and organized and existing under the Act. The address of the Agency for
purposes of this Agreement is:

       Riverton City Redevelopment Agency
       Attn: Manager
       12830 S Redwood Rd,
       Riverton, UT 84065



              With a copy to:
              Smith Hartvigsen, PLLC
              257 East 200 South STE 500
              Salt Lake City, UT 84111
              Attn: J. Craig Smith

                  1.5.2.     The Participant

The Participant is Osmond Enterprises, LLC., a Utah [limited liability company] lawfully
registered to do business in Utah. The Participant’s address for purposes of this
Agreement is:


Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                     Page 2
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


       Osmond Enterprises, LLC.
       ___________________
       ___________________

       1.6.      Prohibition against Certain Changes

                  1.6.1.     Assignment or Transfer of Agreement

The Participant represents and agrees for itself and its successors and assigns that during
the term of this Agreement the Participant will not assign or transfer or attempt to assign
or transfer all or any part of this Agreement, or any rights herein or obligations hereunder,
without the prior written consent of the Agency. The attempted or actual assignment or
delegation of this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Agency is a material
breach of this Agreement and relieves the Agency of any obligation to the Participant
under this Agreement. As a condition of the Agency approving an assignment of this
Agreement by the Participant the Agency may, among other things, require the proposed
assignee to execute an acknowledgement of its acceptance to perform all duties and
obligations of the Participant under this Agreement.

                  1.6.2.     Transfer to Tax-Exempt Organization

Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, any transfer, whether
voluntary or involuntary, or any attempt by the Participant or its successor(s) in interest
to transfer any of the real or personal property within the Project Site to a tax-exempt
organization or otherwise to exempt any of the real or personal property within the
Project Area from ad valorem property taxation without the prior written consent of the
Agency shall be a material default of this Agreement and entitle the Agency, in addition
to any remedy available to the Agency at law or equity, at its sole discretion, to
immediately require payment from the Participant of all amounts received from the
Agency and payment of an amount equal to all discounts from fair market value as to
property sold by the Agency to the Participant under this Agreement.

                  1.6.3.           Continuing Obligations

In the absence of a specific written agreement by the Agency, no assignment or transfer
of this Agreement, in whole or in part, or approval of this Agreement by the Agency,
relieves the Participant from any obligation under this Agreement. All of the terms,
covenants, and conditions of this Agreement are and will remain binding upon the
Participant and its successors and assigns.




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                      Page 3
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


2.        AGENCY PARCELS & PROJECT SITE

       The Agency owns Parcels No. 27-34-251-027-0000, 27-34-251-036-0000, 27-34-251-
036-0000 and 27-34-251-035-0000 within the Project Area, (“Agency Parcels”). A map
depicting the Agency Parcels is attached as Exhibit C. The legal descriptions of the
Agency Parcels are attached as Exhibit D. The Project Site is located within the Project
Area. In order to encourage development within the Project Area, the Agency agrees to
convey the Agency Parcels to the Participant under the terms and conditions set forth
below. All inspections, other due diligence, and the purchase of title insurance, relating
to the conveyance of the Agency Parcels to Participant shall be the responsibility of the
Participant. The Participant shall provide the Agency with a copy of all surveys,
environmental reports, soils reports, and any other information obtained by the
Participant in conducting its due diligence investigation of the Project Site or any portion
thereof. Participant understands and agrees that one or more of the Agency Parcels and
used by the City to detain stormwater from state and local roadway systems. Agency shall
reserve appropriate perpetual easements against title to the Agency Parcels, as necessary
to access detention facilities, detain storm water to the same volume and flow rates as
designed on the Agency Parcels at time of closing, and maintain storm water facilities
whether existing or constructed in the future to replace existing facilities.

       The Agency agrees to allow such access to the Agency Parcels, or any portion
thereof as may be reasonably necessary for such due diligence to be completed by the
Participant. Participant shall hold harmless and indemnify the Agency for any damages,
claim, cost, expense, or liability, arising from, connected to, or related to, the entry on,
testing, or inspecting, of the Agency Parcels by the Participant or any member, employee,
agent, or contractor of the Participant, The Agency makes no representations or
warranties as to the fitness of the Agency Parcels or any portion thereof, including current
zoning, for development of the Participant’s Project or any portion thereof, the condition
of the Project site or any portion thereof, or the availability or likelihood of approvals and
permits from the City or other entities that may be necessary for the Participant’s Project
contemplated herein.

       2.1.       Concept Plan of Project Site

The Participant’s Project plan for the Project Site involves [describe Participant’s Project].
The Participant shall cause the Project Site to be developed pursuant to the terms
described in this Section 2.1 and depicted in the Participant’s Project Site Plan (“Site
Plan”) attached hereto as Exhibit E. Any change or modifications to the Site Plan shall
be submitted to the Agency and may be approved by the Agency Board, at the Board’s
sole discretion.

Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                       Page 4
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


       2.2.      Conveyance of Agency Parcels to Participant

In order to cause the development, construction, and operation of the Participant’s
Project the Agency agrees to convey the Agency Parcels at no cost to Participant. The
closing of the conveyance of the Agency Parcels (“Closing”) will only occur after each and
every of the following condition precedents to Closing (“Conditions Precedent”) have
occurred as determined in the sole discretion of the Agency:

       2.2.1    Ownership by Participant

Participant has acquired fee ownership of all other parcels within the area of the Site Plan.

       2.2.2.   Land Use Approvals

Participant has acquired all land use approvals from the City to construct Participant’s
Project.

       2.2.3. Submission of Construction Plans

 Participant has submitted construction plans for the Participant’s Project (“Project
Plans”) and to the City Building Official in sufficient detail, specificity, and completeness
for the construction plans may be approved by the City Building Official for construction
of the Participant’s Project.

       2.2.4. Proof of Construction Financing

          Participant has submitted proof to the Agency that it has secured construction
financing in an amount sufficient to construct the Participant’s Project.

       2.2.5.    Copy of Construction Agreement

 Participant provides a copy to the Agency of a written and fully executed construction
agreement with a contractor licensed in the state of Utah to construct and complete
Participant’s Project.

       2.2.6.   Evidence of Commencement of Construction

Participant provides satisfactory evidence to the Agency that actual construction of the
Participant’s Project will commence within thirty (30) days of the Closing.

       2.2.7.   Project Plans Substantially Similar to Site Plan



Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                      Page 5
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


 Project Plans submitted to the City Building Official are substantially similar in type and
scope to the Site Plan attached as Ex. B.

      2.2.8 Conveyance of easements sufficient to detain regional storm waters, access
storm water detention facilities, and maintain the same.

       Participant has executed and delivered easements to the Agency or to the Riverton
City, Utah, at the Agency’s sole discretion, which grant Agency or Riverton City the right
to detain stormwaters in volume and flow rates found on Agency Parcels, access
stormwater detention facilities, and maintain detention facilities. In the event Participant
opts to reconfigure stormwater detention facilities existing on Agency Parcels, to other
acreage within the Project, Participant shall execute and deliver easements to access,
detain, and maintain said stormwater detention facilities in a form acceptable to the
Agency.

       2.2.9. Minimum Size of Participant’s Project

Project Plans submitted to the City Building Official include a minimum of _____ square
feet of commercial space, and _____________.



3.        CLOSING OF CONVEYANCE OF AGENCY PARCELS

       The Closing of the conveyance of the Agency Parcels will occur on a date and
location chosen by the Agency only after the Agency submits a written acknowledgement
to Participant and the Agency Board that all of the Conditions Precedent set forth in
Section 2 of this Agreement have been satisfied. Until the submission by the Agency of a
written acknowledgement of satisfaction of all Conditions Precedent the Agency shall
have no obligation to convey the Agency Parcels to Participant. At the closing the Agency
shall deliver a Special Warranty [Quit Claim] Deed , subject to all encumbrances of record,
to the Participant for the Agency Parcels. A Copy of the Form of the deed is attached as
Exhibit E. Participant shall record the Special Warranty Deed at the office of the Salt Lake
County Recorder. Easements in favor of Riverton City and/or the state of Utah
Department of Transportation affecting one or more of the Agency Parcels shall need to
be recorded against the same, for the management of storm waters accumulating from
nearby roadways.




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                     Page 6
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


4.        PARTICIPANT’S FURTHER OBLIGATIONS

                      4.1 Responsibility for Development Plans and Permits

The Participant must responsibly prepare all plans and secure all permits for the
development of Participant’s Project. All plans must be in accordance with all applicable
federal, state, and local laws and regulations, subject to any legally obtained concessions,
special permits and/or variances. Before commencing construction of Anchor, the
Participant must secure or cause to be secured all zoning or land-use approvals and
permits required in order to proceed with the construction of the Participant’s Project.
Expenses for such applications, permits, and approvals shall be borne by the Participant.

                      4.2 Construction and Continuous Operation

The Participant agrees to plan, construct, and operate the Participant’s Project according
to the terms of this Agreement. After construction of the Participant’s Project, the
Participant shall open and continuously operate the Participant’s Project. Any
discontinuance of operation shall be a material breach of this Agreement and shall entitle
the Agency to the remedies provided for herein.

                      4.3 Commencement of Operations

Such operations as described in Section 4.1.2 shall commence within one year of the
Effective Date of this Agreement. Operation is defined as obtaining a certificate of
occupancy for opening at least 50% of commercial development units approved under
that certain development agreement between the Riverton City Council and Participant,
dated _____________. Development Standards, Plans and Permits

                      4.4 Building Permits and Fees

The Participant shall be responsible for obtaining all necessary permits and shall pay all
building permit fees, impact fees and other fees required to construct the Anchor and
other facilities.

                      4.5 Funding

The Parties understand and agree that funding for the Participant’s Project and any other
facility and related infrastructure improvements comes entirely from the Participant’s
internal capital or from financing obtained by the Participant. The Agency shall not be
liable or responsible for providing, obtaining, or guaranteeing such financing.




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                     Page 7
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


                       4.6 Hold Harmless Agreement

The Participant agrees to defend and hold the Agency and its directors, officers, agents,
employees, representatives, contractors, attorneys, and consultants harmless for any and
all claims, liability, and damages arising out of any work or activity on the Project Site by
the Participant and its directors, officers, agents, employees, consultants, and contractors.

                       4.7 Hazardous, Toxic, and/or Contaminating Materials

The Participant agrees to defend and hold the Agency its directors, officers, agents,
employees, representatives, contractors, attorneys and consultants, harmless from any
and all claims, liability, costs, fines, penalties, charges and/or claims of any kind
whatsoever relating to the existence and removal of hazardous, toxic and/or
contaminating materials on or from the Anchor, any other facility, and the Project Site,
except where such claims, liability, costs, fines, penalties, charges and/or claims are due
to the actions of the Agency or where such claims existed (regardless of whether asserted)
prior to the effective date of this Agreement.

                       4.8 Indemnification of Agency

The Participant agrees to and shall indemnify and hold the Agency and its directors,
officers, agents, employees, representatives, contractors, attorneys and consultants
harmless from and against all liability, loss, damage, costs, or expenses (including
reasonable attorney fees and court costs) arising from or as a result of the death of any
person, or any accident, injury, loss, or damage whatsoever caused to any person or to
the property of any person, directly or indirectly caused by any acts done or any errors or
omissions of the Participant and its directors, officers, agents, employees, consultants and
contractors on the Anchor or any other facility constructed on the Project Site, or the
Project Site except for willful misconduct or negligent acts or omissions of the Agency or
its directors, officers, agents, employees and consultants. Likewise, the Agency agrees and
shall indemnify and hold the Participant and its directors, officers, agents, employees,
consultants and contractors harmless from and against all liability, loss, damage, costs, or
expenses (including reasonable attorney fees and court costs) arising from or as a result
of the death of any person, or any accident, injury, loss, or damage whatsoever caused to
any person or to the property of any person, directly or indirectly caused by any acts done
thereon or any errors or omissions of the Agency and its directors, officers, agents,
employees and consultants except for willful misconduct or negligent acts or omissions
of the Participant or its directors, officers, agents, employees, consultants and contractors.




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                       Page 8
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


                       4.9 Discrimination

The Participant agrees for itself and its successors and assigns that it will not unlawfully
discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment, or any contractor or any
bidder on any contract.

                       4.10 Local, State, and Federal Laws

The Participant shall construct and operate Anchor and Facility B in conformity with all
applicable laws; provided, however, that nothing herein shall limit the right of the
Participant to properly challenge any such law or the applicability of such law.

                       4.11 City and Other Governmental Permits

The Participant shall, at its own expense, secure or cause to be secured, any and all permits
which may be required by the City, or any other governmental agency affected by the
development or operation of the Anchor and any other facility.

                       4.12 Rights of Access

Representatives of the Agency shall have the right of reasonable access to any portion of
the Project Area and any and all improvements thereon, for purposes of inspection, with
reasonable and prior notice to and consent from the Participant, which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld, and without charges or fees, during normal business hours or
as otherwise agreed to in writing by Participant. Such representatives of the Agency and
other visitors to the Project Site shall observe any reasonable rules adopted by the
Participant for purposes of maintaining safety and security, including requirements that
such representatives or visitors be escorted by the general manager or other designated
agent of the Participant at all times.



5 EFFECT & DURATION OF COVENANTS, TERM OF AGREEMENT

The covenants, including but not limited to conformance with federal, local, and state
laws, established in this Agreement shall, without regard to technical classification and
designation, be binding on the Parties and any successors in interest for the benefit of
each of the respective Parties, their successors and assigns during the term of this
Agreement, which shall terminate after the Participant’s Project is fully constructed
according to the Site Plan and in continuous operation for a period after full construction
of five (5) years.



Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                      Page 9
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


6 DEFAULTS, REMEDIES & TERMINATION

                       6.1 Default

If either the Agency or the Participant fails to perform or delays performance of any
material term or provision of this Agreement, such conduct constitutes a default of this
Agreement (“Default”). The Party in default must immediately commence to cure, correct,
or remedy such failure or delay and shall complete such cure, correction or remedy within
the periods provided in Section 6.3 hereof.

                       6.2       Notice

If a Default under this Agreement occurs, the non-defaulting Party shall give written
notice (a “Default Notice”) of the Default to the defaulting Party, specifying the nature
of the Default. Failure or delay in giving such notice shall not constitute a waiver of any
Default, nor shall it change the time of Default, nor shall it operate as a waiver of any
rights or remedies of the non-defaulting Party; but the non-defaulting Party shall have no
right to exercise any remedy hereunder without delivering the Default Notice as provided
herein. Delays by either Party in asserting any of its rights and remedies shall not deprive
the other Party of its right to institute and maintain any actions or proceedings which it
may deem necessary to protect, assert, or enforce any such rights or remedies.

                       6.3 Cure Period

The non-defaulting Party shall have no right to exercise a right or remedy hereunder
unless the subject Default continues uncured for a period of thirty (30) days after delivery
of the Default Notice in writing with respect thereto, or, where the default is of a nature
which cannot be cured within such thirty (30) day period, the defaulting Party fails to
commence such cure within thirty (30) days and to diligently proceed to complete the
same. A Default which can be cured by the payment of money is understood and agreed
to be among the types of defaults which can be cured within thirty (30) days. If the Default
is not cured, or commenced to be cured if such default is of a nature which cannot be
cured within thirty (30) days, by such Party within thirty (30) days of delivery of the Default
Notice, such failure to cure shall be an Event of Default, and the non-defaulting Party, at
its option, may institute an action for specific performances of the terms of this
Agreement or pursue such other rights and remedies as it may have.

                       6.4 Rights and Remedies

Upon the occurrence of a Default (following the expiration of the applicable cure period
provided herein or by law), the non-defaulting Party shall have all rights and remedies
against the defaulting Party as may be available at law or in equity to cure, correct or

Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                       Page 10
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


remedy any Default, to terminate this Agreement, to obtain specific performance, to
recover damages for any default, or to obtain any other remedy consistent with the
purposes of this Agreement. Such rights and remedies are cumulative, and the exercise
of one or more of such rights or remedies shall not preclude the exercise, at the same or
different times, of any other rights or remedies for the same Default or any other Default
by the defaulting Party.

                       6.5 Legal Actions

                                      6.5.1 Venue

All legal actions between the Parties, arising under this Agreement, shall be conducted
exclusively in the Third District Court for the State of Utah located in Salt Lake City, Utah,
unless they involve a case with federal jurisdiction, in which case they shall be conducted
exclusively in the Federal District Court for the District of Utah.

                                      6.5.2 Services of Process

Service of process on the Agency shall be made by personal service upon the Riverton
City Manager and the Riverton City Attorney or in such other manner as may be provided
by law.

Service of process on the Participant shall be by personal service upon its registered
agent, or in such other manner as may be provided by law, whether made within or
without the State of Utah.

                                      6.5.3 Applicable Law

The laws of the State of Utah and the Ordinances and Code of Riverton City shall govern
the interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement.

7 GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       7.1 Notices, Demands, and Communications between the
                           Parties

Notices, demands, and required communications, between the Agency and the
Participant shall be in writing and sufficiently given if personally delivered or if dispatched
by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return-receipt requested, to the principal
offices of the Agency and the Participant, as designated in Sections 1.5.1 and 1.5.2 herein.
Such written notices, demands, and required communications may be sent in the same
manner to such other addresses as either Party may from time to time designate by formal


Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                       Page 11
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


notice hereunder. Delivery of notice shall be complete upon mailing or making physical
delivery of the writing containing the notice. Severability

In the event that any condition, covenant or other provision herein contained is held to
be invalid or void by a court of competent jurisdiction, the same shall be deemed
severable from the remainder of this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other
covenant or condition herein contained unless such severance shall have a material effect
on the terms of this Agreement. If such condition, covenant, or other provision shall be
deemed invalid due to its scope, all other provisions shall be deemed valid to the extent
of the scope or breadth permitted by law.

                        7.2 Nonliability of Agency Personnel

No director, officer, agent, employee, representative, contractor, attorney, or consultant
of the Agency shall be personally liable to the Participant, or any successor in interest, in
the event of any default or breach by the Agency or for any amount which may become
due to the Participant or to its successor, or on any obligations under the terms of this
Agreement.

                        7.3    Indemnification

The Participant shall indemnify the Agency against any liability to a third party resulting
from this Agreement.

                        7.4    Force Majure

In addition to the specific provisions of this Agreement, performance by either Party
hereunder shall not be deemed to be in default where delays or defaults are due to war;
insurrection; strikes; lock-outs; riots; floods; earthquakes; fires; casualties; acts of God; acts
of a public enemy; terrorist activity; epidemics; quarantine restrictions; freight embargoes;
lack of transportation; governmental restrictions or priority; litigation; unusually severe
weather; acts of the other Party; or any other causes beyond the control or without the
fault of the Party claiming an extension of time to perform. An extension of time for any
such cause shall be for the period of the enforced delay and shall commence to run from
the time of the commencement of the cause, if notice by the Party claiming such
extension is sent, to the other Party within thirty (30) days of actual knowledge of the
commencement of the cause. Time of performance under this Agreement may also be
extended in writing by the Agency and the Participant by mutual agreement.

                        7.5       Time of the Essence

Time is of the essence in the performance of this Agreement.

Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                          Page 12
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


                       7.6     Interpretation

The Parties hereto agree that they intend by this Agreement to create only the contractual
relationship established herein, and that no provision hereof, or act of either Party
hereunder, shall be construed as creating the relationship of principal and agent, or a
partnership, or a joint venture or enterprise between the Parties hereto.

                       7.7    No Third-Party Beneficiaries

It is understood and agreed that this Agreement shall not create for either Party any
independent duties, liabilities, agreements, or rights to or with any third party, nor does
this Agreement contemplate or intend that any benefits hereunder accrue to any third
party.

                       7.8       Incorporation of Exhibits

All exhibits attached hereto are incorporated into this Agreement as if fully set forth
herein.

                       7.9        City Land Use Authority

Participant acknowledges that nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to supersede,
waive, or replace the City’s authority over land use, zoning, and permitting within the City.

.

                       7.10         Limits on Liability

In no event shall one Party be liable to the other(s) for consequential, special, incidental,
indirect, exemplary, or punitive damages of any kind (including, but not limited to, loss
of profits, loss of reputation, or loss of current or prospective business advantage, even
where such losses are characterized as direct damages) arising out of or in any way related
to the relationship or dealings between Participant and the Agency, regardless of whether
the claim under which damages are sought is based upon contract, tort, negligence (of
any kind), willful misconduct, strict liability or otherwise, and regardless of whether the
parties have been advised of the possibility of such damages at the time of contracting
or otherwise.

                       7.11 Non-waiver of Governmental Immunity

Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any immunity, protection, or
rights granted to the Agency under the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, Utah Code
§ 63G-7-101, et seq.

Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                     Page 13
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


                       7.12 Authority

Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the other that the following statements are
true, complete, and not misleading as regards to the representing and warranting party:
(a) such Party has full authority to enter into this Agreement and to perform all of its
obligations hereunder; (b) those executing this Agreement on behalf of each Party do so
with the full authority of the Party each represents; (c) this Agreement constitutes a legal,
valid, and binding obligation of each Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms,
subject to: (i) the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium
and other similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally; and (ii) the effect of the
exercise of judicial discretion in accordance with general principles of equity.


                       7.13 Mediation

In the event a dispute arises between the parties with respect to the terms of this
Agreement or the performance of any contractual obligation by one or both of the Parties,
the Parties agree to submit the matter to formal and confidential non-binding mediation
before any judicial action may be initiated, unless an immediate court order is needed or
a statute of limitations period will run before mediation can be reasonably completed. A
mediator will be selected by mutual agreement of the Parties. The parties must mediate
in good faith to resolve the dispute in a timely manner. Each Party will be responsible for
its own costs and one-half of the cost of the mediator. The place of mediation shall be
Salt Lake County, Utah.

                       7.14 Headings

Article and Section titles, headings or captions are inserted only as a matter of
convenience and for reference and in no way define, limit, extend, or describe the scope
of this Agreement or the intent of any provision hereof.

                       7.15 Contra Proferentum

This is an arm’s-length Agreement. The Parties have read this Agreement and have
executed it voluntarily after having been apprised of all relevant information and the risks
involved and having had the opportunity to obtain legal counsel of their choice.
Consequently, no provision of this Agreement shall be strictly construed against either
Party.




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                      Page 14
       AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


                       7.16 Further Assurances

The Parties shall cooperate, take such additional actions, sign such additional
documentation, and provide such additional information as reasonably necessary to
accomplish the objectives set forth in this Agreement.

                       7.17 Declaration of Invalidity

In the event any legal action is filed in a court of competent jurisdiction that seeks to
invalidate the Project Area, the Plan, or this Agreement or that otherwise seeks to or may
have the possible result of reducing or eliminating the conveyance to Participant of the
Agency Parcels for less than fair market value, the Agency shall provide written notice of
such legal action to Participant. In the event such an action is filed, the Agency shall have
no obligation to challenge that action or defend itself against such action but agrees not
to enter into any settlement, consent, decree, or other resolution without first providing
Participant a reasonable opportunity to intervene and defend its rights and privileges
provided under this Agreement. If requested by Participant, the Agency may, at its sole
discretion, take such actions as may be reasonably required to defend such legal action
and to address the grounds for any causes of action that could result in the reduction or
elimination of the Incentive. Participant specifically reserves and does not waive any right
it may have to intervene, at Participant’s cost and expense, in any such legal action and
challenge the basis for any causes of action or any remedy sought that would reduce or
eliminate the payment of the Incentive to Participant, and nothing herein shall be
construed as an estoppel, waiver or consent to reduce or eliminate payment of the
Incentive to Participant. In the event that the court declares that the Agency cannot pay
the Incentive, invalidates the Project Area or the Plan, the Interlocal Agreements, or this
Agreement, or takes any other action which eliminates or reduces the amount of
Incentive, and the grounds for the legal determination cannot reasonably be addressed
by the Agency, the Agency’s obligation to pay to Participant the Incentive in accordance
with this Agreement will be reduced or eliminated to the extent required by law. The
Participant at its sole and exclusive discretion may, without penalty, terminate its
obligations under this Agreement if any court invalidates the conveyance of Agency
Parcels pursuant to this Agreement.




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                     Page 15
      AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


8 DUPLICATION, INTEGRATION, WAIVERS, AND AMENDMENTS

                      8.1   Duplicate Originals

This Agreement may be executed in duplicate originals, each of which shall be deemed
an original.

                      8.2   Integration

This Agreement (including its exhibits) constitutes the entire understanding and
agreement of the Parties. When executed by the Parties, this Agreement integrates all of
the terms and conditions mentioned herein or incidental hereto and supersedes all
negotiations or previous agreements between the Parties with respect to all or any part
of the Project Site.

                     8.3    Waivers and Amendments

All waivers of the provisions of this Agreement must be in writing. This Agreement and
any provisions hereof may be amended only by mutual written agreement between The
Participant and the Agency.




         [Remainder of page intentionally left blank; signature pages to follow]




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                   Page 16
          AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


                                              REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF
                                              RIVERTON CITY



                                              By:______________________________
                                                 ________________, Chair
Attest:

By:___________________________________
  _________________, Secretary



                                                OSMOND ENTERPRISES, LLC.



                                                By:    ______________________________
                                                Name:
                                                Title:




Riverton Redevelopment Agency Participation Agreement
                                                                                   Page 17
AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2




                            Exhibit A

        To Osmond Enterprises, LLC. Participation Agreement

                         Project Area Plan
AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2




                             Exhibit B

        To Osmond Enterprises, LLC. Participation Agreement

                       Participant’s Site Plan
AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2




                            Exhibit C

        To Osmond Enterprises, LLC. Participation Agreement

                      Map of Agency Parcels
AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2


                             Exhibit D

        To Osmond Enterprises, LLC. Participation Agreement

                Legal Descriptions of Agency Parcels
AGENCY DRAFT 2024-05-25 v. 2




                             Exhibit E

        To Osmond Enterprises, LLC. Participation Agreement

                          Form of Deed
