                                          Issue Paper

Presenter/Submitted By:          Jason Lethbridge

Subject:                                                Meeting Date:
                                                        March 1, 2022
Downtown Redwood Road Community
Reinvestment Project Area                               Fiscal Impact:

                                                        Funding Source:

Background:

This item is the proposed Downtown Redwood Road Community Reinvestment Project
Area Plan.

The Draft Plan and Budget provides, among other things, an evaluation of appropriate
land uses and economic and community reinvestment forecasts for the land
encompassed by the CRA. The Draft Plan and Budget also sets forth the aims and
objectives of the anticipated new development, including its scope, its mechanism, and
its value to the residents of Riverton City (the “City”) and other taxing districts. The
Agency has requested $6,329,656 in property tax incremental revenues that will be
generated by development within the CRA to fund a portion of the project development
costs within the CRA, as outlined in the Project Area Plan.

This proposed Project Area Plan does not include any power of condemnation or
eminent domain. There has been concerns expressed in public comment that
establishment of the CRA will result in homes being taken, residents being forced to
relocate, or other such actions. This is neither the intent the nor within the legal scope
of the Project Area Plan. The Plan also does not include any proposed development
layout or plan, or any specific land use approvals.


Recommendation:

There has been feedback from the Agency that possible amendments to the initially
proposed budget should be considered. Following the public hearing, the Agency may
also direct staff to make other changes to the budget or plan, with the plan and budget
to be adopted at the April 5th meeting.


Recommended Motion:

“I move the City Council table the proposed adoption of the Downtown Redwood Road
Community Reinvestment Area Plan and Budget to the April 5th meeting of the Riverton
Development Agency.”
