                                                                    County Contract No.
                                                                    ___________________
                                                                    DA Log No. 20-16962

               RESTATED INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
        for the Western Commercial District Community Development Project Area
                                             between
                   REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF RIVERTON CITY

                                               and
                                    SALT LAKE COUNTY

      THIS RESTATED INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT is entered into
by and between the REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF RIVERTON CITY, a Utah
community development and renewal agency or redevelopment agency (“Agency”), and SALT
LAKE COUNTY, a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah (“County”). The Agency
and the County may collectively be referred to hereinafter as the “Parties” or individually as a
“Party.”

                                        R E C I T A L S:

       A.     The County is a county existing pursuant to Article XI, Section 1 of the Utah
Constitution. The Agency is a community development and renewal agency or redevelopment
agency created either under the Limited Purpose Local Government Entities – Community
Development and Renewal Agencies Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 17C-1-101 et seq., (the “Act”) or
under previous law. The Agency is authorized under the Act to conduct urban renewal,
economic development, and community development activities within Riverton City, Utah.

        B.     The Agency approved and Riverton City (the “City”) adopted a community
development project area plan for the Western Commercial District Community Development
Project Area (the “Project Area”) on October 20, 2015, respectively, pursuant to which the
Agency will encourage and promote Project Area Development within the Project Area and in
the surrounding community. While the Project Area encompasses approximately 689 acres of
land, the Agency intends only to collect County Tax Increment from the 85-acre area identified
in the map attached hereto as EXHIBIT F (the “Tax Increment Collection Area”).

        C.     The Act authorizes funding of community development project areas and plans—
such as the Project Area and the Project Area Plan—with property tax increment pursuant to
interlocal cooperation agreements with various taxing entities that levy a property tax in the
project area. Specifically, Section 17C-4-201 of the Act authorizes a taxing entity to “consent to
the agency receiving the taxing entity’s tax increment . . . for the purpose of providing funds to
carry out a proposed or adopted community development project area plan.”

        D.      The County, as a taxing entity, now desires to consent to the Agency receiving
certain tax increment attributable to the County’s Tax Levies (defined below) in accordance with
the terms of this Agreement in order to provide funds to the Agency to carry out the Project Area
Plan.

        E.       The Agency and the County are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 11-13-101 et seq. (the “Interlocal Act”), and, as
such, are authorized by the Interlocal Act to enter into this Agreement to act jointly and
cooperatively in a manner that will enable them to make the most efficient use of their resources
and powers. Additionally, Section 11-13-215 of the Interlocal Act also authorizes a taxing entity
to share its tax and other revenues with other public agencies.

       F.      The Agency and County previously entered into an agreement as of November
21, 2016, County Contract No. 1351, attached hereto as EXHIBIT G (the “Previous
Agreement”), and the Agency and County would like to enter into this Restated Interlocal
Cooperation Agreement (“Agreement”) that replaces the Previous Agreement in its entirety, and
renders the Previous Agreement null and void.

                                     A G R E E M E N T:

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations, covenants, and
agreements contained herin, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Parties hereby
agree as follows:

                      ARTICLE 1 - INCORPORATION AND DEFINITIONS

        1.1.   Incorporation and Definitions. The foregoing recitals and all exhibits attached
hereto are hereby made a part of this Agreement. Unless otherwise defined in this Section or in
this Agreement, terms shall have the meaning set forth in the Act. For the purposes of this
Agreement, the following definitions apply:

               (a)    Act: As defined in the Recitals to this Agreement.

              (b)     Affordable Housing Set-Aside: As defined in Subsection 2.2(c) of this
        Agreement.

               (c)    Agency: Redevelopment Agency of Riverton City

               (d)    Agency Board: The governing body of the Agency.

               (e)    Agency’s Share: As defined in Subection 2.2(b) of this Agreement.

               (f)    Annual Rebate: As defined in Subection 2.2(b) of this Agreement.

              (g)     Base Tax Year: The 2015 tax year, as defined in Section 2.1 of this
        Agreement.

               (h)      Base Taxable Value: No Dollars and No Cents ($0.00), as defined in
        Section 2.1 of this Agreement.


                                          Page 2 of 27
        (i)    City: Riverton City

        (j)    County: Salt Lake County, a body corporate and politic of the State of
Utah.

      (k)      County Administrative Fee: As defined in Subsection 2.2(d) of this
Agreement.

      (l)      County Tax Increment: The Tax Increment attributable to the County’s
Tax Levies.

        (m)    County’s Contribution: As defined in Subection 2.2(a) of this Agreement.

        (n)    County’s Tax Levies: The County’s countywide and library tax levies.

        (o)    Countywide Cap: As defined in Section 2.3 of this Agreement.

        (p)    Effective Date: As defined in Section 7.1 of this Agreement.

        (q)    Event of Default: As defined in Section 6.1 of this Agreement.

        (r)   Governmental Authority: Any and all courts, boards, agencies,
commissions, offices, divisions, subdivisions, departments, bodies, or authorities of any
type of governmental unit (federal, state, or local) whether now or hereafter in existence.

        (s)    Library Cap: As defined in Section 2.3 of this Agreement.

         (t)    Legal Requirements: Any and all (i) present and future judicial decisions,
statutes (including environmental laws), laws, rulings, rules, regulations, orders, writs,
injunctions, decrees, permits, certificates or ordinances of any Governmental Authority in
any way applicable to the Agency or Project Area and (ii) contracts of any nature that
relate in any way to the Project Area and to which Agency may be bound.

        (u)     Material Adverse Change: Any event, circumstance, fact, condition,
development, or occurrence that has had or could be reasonably expected to have a
material and adverse effect on: (i) the completion of any material portion of the
redevelopment to be conducted in the Project Area; (ii) the anticipated taxable value of
the Project Area as identified in the Proposed Amended Project Area Budget; or (iv) the
validity, enforceability, or binding effect of this Agreement.

       (v)   Project Area: The geographic area described in the Project Area Plan
where the community development set forth in the Project Area Plan is intended to take
place.

       (w)    Project Area Plan: The community development project area plan
approved by the Agency Board in accordance with Sections 17C-4-102 and 17C-4-104 of

                                   Page 3 of 27
       the Act, adopted by the legislative body of the City in accordance with Section 17C-4-
       105 of the Act, and attached hereto as EXHIBIT A.

              (x)    Project Area Budget: The Proposed Amended Project Area Budget once it
       has been adopted by the Agency Board in accordance with Section 17C-4-204 of the Act.

              (y)     Property: All locally-assessed and centrally-assessed real and personal
       property.

               (z)     Proposed Amended Project Area Budget: The proposed amended budget
       for the Project Area prepared pursuant to Section 17C-4-204 of the Act and attached
       hereto as EXHIBIT B.

              (aa) Taxing Entities: Those public agencies identified in the Proposed
       Amended Project Area Budget that levy a tax on Property within the Project Area and are
       expected to contribute their Tax Increment to the Agency through either an Interlocal
       Cooperation Agreement or resolution.

               (bb) Tax Increment: The difference between the amount of property tax
       revenues generated each tax year by the Taxing Entities from Property within the Tax
       Increment Collection Area within the Project Area using the current year assessed value
       of the Property and the amount of property tax revenues that would be generated each tax
       year by the Taxing Entities from that same Property using the Base Taxable Value of the
       Property.

               (cc) Tax Increment Collection Area: The 85-acre area within the Project Area
       identified in the map attached hereto as EXHIBIT F, which area includes portions of
       parcel numbers 27-31-300-011-0000 and 27-31-400-022-0000.

            (dd) Tax Increment Collection Period: The twenty-five (25) year period
       commencing with the Trigger Year.

              (ee)    Trigger Year: The 2021 tax year.

                        ARTICLE 2 -– PAYMENT OF TAX INCREMENT

        2.1.    Base Year and Base Taxable Value. The Parties agree that for purposes of
calculating the amount of County Tax Increment from the Tax Increment Collection Area to be
paid by the Salt Lake County Treasurer to the Agency pursuant to this Agreement, the base tax
year shall be the 2015 tax year (the “Base Tax Year”) and the base taxable value shall be the
assessed taxable value of all Property within the Tax Increment Collection Area for the Base Tax
Year, which, after review of Salt Lake County and Utah State Tax Commission records, the
Parties believe is No Dollars and No Cents ($0.00) (the “Base Taxable Value”).

      2.2.    Payment of Tax Increment; Affordable Housing Set-Aside; and County
Administrative Fee.


                                         Page 4 of 27
        (a)    Payment of County Tax Increment. Subject to Sections 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, and
2.6, the County hereby agrees and consents that, for each tax year during the Tax
Increment Collection Period, the Salt Lake County Treasurer shall pay 100% of County
Tax Increment to the Agency (the “County’s Contribution”) and shall pay the remainder
of County Tax Increment, if any, to the County. The Salt Lake County Treasurer shall
continue to pay any and all tax revenues attributable to the County’s Tax Levies on the
Base Taxable Value of the Project Area to the County.

        (b)     Annual Rebate. Notwithstanding Subsection 2.2(a), the Parties hereby
agree that for each tax year during the Tax Increment Collection Period, the Agency shall
transfer an amount equal to 25% of any County Tax Increment it receives from the Salt
Lake County Treasurer under this Agreement—that is, an amount equal to 25% of the
County’s Contribution—to the County (the “Annual Rebate”). The Agency’s transfer of
the Annual Rebate to the County each year shall occur no later than three months
following the Agency’s receipt of County Tax Increment from the Salt Lake County
Treasurer. The amount equal to the County’s Contribution less the Annual Rebate is
hereinafter referred to as the “Agency’s Share.” Thus, for the purposes of this
Agreement, the Agency’s Share is generally equal to 75% of County Tax Increment
(unless, for example, the Agency’s Share is reduced under Subsection 2.6(a)(1) below or
a reduction to the County’s Contribution is triggered under Subsections 2.2(c) or (d)
below). However, the Parties agree that if the Annual Rebate in this Subsection 2.2(b) is
ever held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction or as a result
of legislative or administrative action or if the County ever provides a written notice to
the Agency calling for the elimination of the Annual Rebate in this Subsection 2.2(b)
from the Agreement for any other reason, then the Parties agree that, in lieu of the Annual
Rebate under this Subsection 2.2(b) and starting with the next tax year for which County
Tax Increment has not already been paid to the Agency, the County’s Contribution under
Subsection 2.2(a) will be reduced by 25%—in addition to any reduction to the County’s
Contribution triggered under Subsections 2.2(c) and (d)—and that the Salt Lake County
Treasurer shall pay the remainder of County Tax Increment to the County. Furthermore,
if a reduction to the County’s Contribution is triggered under this Subsection 2.2(b), the
Agency agrees that it will not seek repayment of and will waive any claim to any portion
of the Annual Rebate that has already been paid to the County.

         (c)     Affordable Housing Set-Aside. Notwithstanding Subsection 2.2(a) and in
addition to Subsection 2.2(b), the Parties hereby agree that for each of the last five tax
years of the Tax Increment Collection Period (i.e. tax years 21 through 25), the Agency
shall transfer an amount equal to 95% of the Agency’s Share to the County for use in
providing Income Targeted Housing within Salt Lake County (the “Affordable Housing
Set-Aside”). The Agency’s transfer of the Affordable Housing Set-Aside to the County
each year during the applicable period shall occur no later than three months following
the Agency’s receipt of County Tax Increment from the Salt Lake County Treasurer.
However, the Parties agree that if the Affordable Housing Set-Aside in this Subsection
2.2(c) is ever held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction or
as a result of legislative or administrative action or if the County ever provides a written
notice to the Agency calling for the elimination of the Affordable Housing Set-Aside in

                                    Page 5 of 27
       this Subsection 2.2(c) from the Agreement for any other reason, then the Parties agree
       that, in lieu of the Affordable Housing Set-Aside under this Subsection 2.2(c) and starting
       with the next tax year for which County Tax Increment has not already been paid to the
       Agency, the County’s Contribution under Subsection 2.2(a) will be reduced by 71.25%—
       in addition to any reduction to the County’s Contribution triggered under Subsections
       2.2(b) and (d)—and that the Salt Lake County Treasurer shall pay the remainder of
       County Tax Increment to the County. Furthermore, if a reduction to the County’s
       Contribution is triggered under this Subsection 2.2(c), the Agency agrees that it will not
       seek repayment of and will waive any claim to any portion of the Affordable Housing
       Set-Aside that has already been paid to the County.

               (d)     County Administrative Fee. Notwithstanding Subsection 2.2(a) and in
       addition to Subsections 2.2(b) and (c), the Parties hereby agree that for each tax year
       during the Tax Increment Collection Period, the Agency shall transfer an amount equal to
       5% of the Agency’s Share to the County for use by the County’s Office of Regional
       Development to cover costs associated with evaluating its participation in the Project
       Area and ongoing administration of this Agreement (the “County Administrative Fee”).
       The Agency’s transfer of the County Administrative Fee to the County each year shall
       occur no later than three months following the Agency’s receipt of County Tax Increment
       from the Salt Lake County Treasurer. However, the Parties agree that if the County
       Administrative Fee in this Subsection 2.2(d) is ever held to be invalid or unenforceable
       by a court of competent jurisdiction or as a result of legislative or administrative action or
       if the County ever provides a written notice to the Agency calling for the elimination of
       the County Administrative Fee in this Subsection 2.2(d) from the Agreement for any
       reason, then the Parties agree that, in lieu of the County Administrative Fee under this
       Subsection 2.2(d) and starting with the next tax year for which County Tax Increment has
       not already been paid to the Agency, the County’s Contribution under Subsection 2.2(a)
       will be reduced by 3.75%—in addition to any reduction to the County’s Contribution
       triggered under Subsections 2.2(b) and (c)—and that the Salt Lake County Treasurer
       shall pay the remainder of County Tax Increment to the County. Furthermore, if a
       reduction to the County’s Contribution is triggered under this Subsection 2.2(d), the
       Agency agrees that it will not seek repayment of and will waive any claim to any portion
       of the County Administrative Fee that has already been paid to the County.

        2.3. Tax Increment Cap. The total amount of County Tax Increment paid to the
Agency from the Project Area during the Tax Increment Collection Period after deducting any
Annual Rebates made to the County under Subsection 2.2(b) may not exceed the following
limits:

              (a)     Countywide Tax Levy:            $15,043,372.00 (“Countywide Cap”)
              (b)     Library Tax Levy:               $4,059,511.00 (“Library Cap”)
                      TOTAL                           $19,102,883.00

The Countywide Cap and Library Cap will be proportionally reduced by the amount of any
direct expenditures made by the County in the Project Area during the Tax Increment Collection
Period (or any extension thereof), including, but not limited to, expenditures related to the

                                           Page 6 of 27
design, development, construction, or maintenance of infrastructure or amenities, but only if such
direct expenditures are provided for the purpose of paying any expenditure(s) specifically
identified in the Project Area Budget. However, any direct expenditures made by the County in
relation to the construction of a Salt Lake County performing arts center or community center
within the Project Area will not proportionally reduce the Countywide Cap and Library Cap.

       2.4.    Reserved

       2.5.    Conditions Precedent to Contribution of Tax Increment. The Parties agree that
this Agreement will terminate and the County will have no obligation to contibute County Tax
Increment to the Agency under Section 2.2, unless the following conditions have been satisfied
within ninety (90) days following the Effective Date of this Agreement:

               (a)    Agency Approval of Project Area Plan. The Agency Board has, by
       resolution, approved the Project Area Plan attached hereto as EXHIBIT A in accordance
       with Sections 17C-4-102 and 17C-4-104 of the Act.

               (b)     City Adoption of Project Area Plan. The legislative body of the City has,
       by ordinance, adopted the Project Area Plan attached hereto as EXHIBIT A as the
       official project area plan for the Project Area in accordance with Section 17C-4-105 of
       the Act and the legislative body of the City has provided notice of such adoption in
       accordance with Section 17C-4-106 of the Act.

              (c)    Document Transmission and Recordation. The Agency has transmitted
       and recorded all necessary documents in accordance with Section 17C-4-107 of the Act.

              (d)      Adoption of Proposed Amended Project Area Budget. The Agency has,
       by resolution, adopted the Proposed Amended Project Area Budget attached hereto as
       EXHIBIT B as the official project area budget for the Project Area in accordance with
       Section 17C-4-204 of the Act.

               (e)    Interlocal Agreement – Other Taxing Entites. Pursuant to Sections 17C-4-
       201 and 17C-4-202, the Agency has entered into an interlocal cooperation agreement
       with each taxing entity identified in the Proposed Amended Project Area Budget wherein
       each taxing entity has agreed to contribute their Tax Increment to the Agency in the
       amount, at the level, and for the duration specified in the Proposed Amended Project
       Project Area Budget.

               (f)    No Default. No Event of Default has occurred under this Agreement
       beyond any applicable cure period, and no event, circumstance or condition has occurred
       or exists which, with the passage of time or the giving of notice, would constitute an
       Event of Default under this Agreement.

       2.6.    Performance Benchmark.

              (a)    Unless each of the performance benchmarks listed under Subsection 2.6(b)
       have been achieved prior to September 30th of the seventh (7th) tax year of the Tax
                                          Page 7 of 27
       Increment Collection Period, then, starting with the eighth (8th) tax year of the Tax
       Increment Collection Period, the Parties agree that:

                     (1)      the Agency’s Share of County Tax Increment under Subection
              2.2(b) will be reduced to 50% of County Tax Increment for the remainder of the
              Tax Increment Collection Period, either by increasing the Annual Rebate under
              Section 2.2(b) to 50% or, in the event the Annual Rebate has been eliminated, by
              reducing the County’s Contribution under Subsection 2.2(a) to 50%;

                     (2)    the total amount of County Tax Increment that may be paid to the
              Agency during the Tax Increment Collection Period after deducting any Annual
              Rebates made to the County under Subsection 2.2(b)—that is, the Countywide
              Cap and Library Cap—will be reduced to the following amounts:

                             (i)     Countywide Tax Levy:           $10,028,915.00
                             (ii)    Library Tax Levy:              $2,706,341.00
                                     TOTAL                          $12,735,256.00

              (b)     Performance benchmarks:

                      (1)      The assessed taxable value of Property within the Tax Increment
              Collection Area, as determined by the Salt Lake County Assessor’s Office, has
              exceeded Two Hundred Fifty-Three Million Five Hundred Ninety-Five Thousand
              Six Hundred Thirty-Two Dollars and No Cents ($253,595,632) on the lien date of
              any of the first seven (7) tax years of the Tax Increment Collection Period. This
              benchmark assessed taxable value is equal to eighty percent (80%) of the total
              assessed value projected by the Agency for the seventh year of the Tax Increment
              Collection Period in its Proposed Amended Project Area Budget ($316,994,540 x
              0.80 = $253,595,632).

                      (2)     The City (i) has fulfilled its obligations under the City’s
              Infrastrucure Agreement with Suburban Land Reserve, Inc. (the “SLR
              Infrastructure Agreement”),attached hereto as EXHIBIT E, in order to
              accommodate a future public transit line (TRAX, BRT or other fixed route public
              transit mode) ; and (ii) has entered into an agreement with the Utah Transit
              Authority (UTA) wherein the City has agreed to convey to UTA, at the
              appropriate time, all rights of way the City has acquired under the SLR
              Infrastructure Agreement or by other means that are necessary to accomadate a
              future UTA transit line and transit stop within the Project Area, unless UTA, in its
              sole discretion, refuses to enter into such an agreement.

                     (3)   The City has fulfilled the reporting and other requirements set forth
              under Utah Code 10-9a-408.

        2.7.    Changes to Project Area Plan Prior to Approval. In the event that the Agency
makes changes to or amends the Project Area Plan attached hereto as EXHIBIT A, the Agency
shall provide the County with a copy of such revised Project Area Plan (the “Revised Project

                                          Page 8 of 27
Area Plan”) for the County’s review and approval. If the County approves the Revised Project
Area Plan, then the Parties shall amend this Agreement to attach the Revised Project Area Plan,
and the “Project Area Plan” hereunder will be replaced by the Revised Project Area Plan
attached to the amendment. However, if the County does not approve of the Revised Project
Area Plan and therefore the Parties fail to execute an amendment to this Agreement within ninety
(90) days following the date that the Agency provides the County with a copy of the Revised
Project Area Plan, this Agreement will terminate and neither Party will have any further
obligations hereunder.

        2.8.     Changes to Proposed Amended Project Area Budget Prior to Approval. In the
event that the Agency makes any changes to the Proposed Amended Project Area Budget in the
form attached hereto as EXHIBIT B prior to adoption under Sections 17C-4-204 of the Act, the
Agency shall provide the County with a copy of such revised Proposed Amended Project Area
Budget (the “Revised Proposed Amended Project Area Budget”) for the County’s review and
approval. If the County approves the Revised Proposed Amended Project Area Budget, then the
Parties shall amend this Agreement to attach the Revised Proposed Amended Project Area
Budget, and the “Proposed Amended Project Area Budget” hereunder will be replaced by the
Revised Proposed Amended Project Area Budget attached to the amendment. However, if the
County does not approve of the Proposed Amended Project Area Budget and therefore the
Parties fail to execute an amendment to this Agreement within ninety (90) days following the
date that the Agency provides the County with a copy of the Revised Proposed Amended Project
Area Budget, this Agreement shall terminate and neither Party shall have any further obligations
hereunder.

              ARTICLE 3 -– ALLOWABLE USES OF COUNTY TAX INCREMENT

        3.1.   Allowable Project-Related Costs. The Agency shall use County Tax Increment
paid to the Agency under this Agreement solely for:

               (a)    the construction and installation of Publicly Owned Infrastructure and
       Improvements within the Tax Increment Collection Area that are consistent with the
       Project Area Plan and Project Area Budget;

              (b)    the construction and installation of infrastructure improvements within
       the Tax Increment Collection Area that are for public use or a public purpose; and

             (c)     the Annual Rebate, Affordable Housing Set-Aside, and County
       Administrative Fee, each as may be further identified in the Proposed Amended Project
       Area Budget attached hereto as EXHIBIT B.

       3.2.   Allowable Agency Administrative Costs. The Agency may not use any County
Tax Increment paid to the Agency under this Agreement to reimburse itself for administrative
costs.

                                ARTICLE 4 -REPRESENTATIONS

       4.1.   Representations. To induce the County to execute and perform this Agreement,

                                          Page 9 of 27
the Agency hereby represents to the County as follows:

               (a)     Sufficiency of Tax Increment. To the best of the Agency’s knowledge, the
       amount of Tax Increment that the Agency expects to receive from all taxing entities that
       levy a tax in the Project Area, as indicated in the Proposed Amended Project Area Budget
       attached hereto as EXHIBIT B, is sufficient to carry out and accomplish the objectives
       of the Project Area Plan.

               (b)    Legal Requirements. To the best of the Agency’s knowledge after
       investigation and due inquiry, the Agency is not in violation of any Legal Requirements
       and no violation of any Legal Requirements exists with respect to the establishment of
       the Project Area.

              (c)     No Violation of Other Agreements. The consummation of the transactions
       contemplated by this Agreement and the performance of this Agreement will not result in
       any breach of, or constitute a default under, any agreement or other instrument to which
       the Agency is a party or by which it may be bound or affected.

               (d)    Information. To the best of the Agency’s knowledge, the information
       furnished to the County by the Agency in connection with the CDA Participation
       Request, attached hereto as EXHIBIT C, and all matters covered by this Agreement are
       true and correct and do not contain any untrue statement of any material fact and do not
       omit any material fact necessary to make any statement made therein, in light of the
       circumstances under which it was made, not misleading.

         4.2.    Effect of Disbursement of County Tax Increment to Agency. The Agency agrees
that its receipt of County Tax Increment under this Agreement each year during the Tax
Increment Collection Period, constitutes an affirmation that the representations of this Article
remain true and correct as of the date thereof, unless the County is notified to the contrary prior
to the Agency’s receipt of County Tax Increment.

                        ARTICLE 5 -– COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS

        5.1.   Agency Disclosure Report. For each tax year during the Tax Increment
Collection Period, the Agency shall prepare and submit an annual audit report and disclosure
report in compliance with Utah Law and as called for in Countywide Policy No. 1155, attached
hereto as EXHIBIT D.

        5.2.   Parcels Held By Public Entities. Certain parcels within the Project Area may
currently be exempt from property tax either because they are owned by non-taxable entities or
because they are being used exclusively for religious, charitable, or educational purposes. If
such parcels, excluding the portion of parcels within the Tax Increment Collection Area,
subsequently become taxable after the Base Year and thereby subject to assessment for property
tax purposes after the Base Year, for whatever reason, the Parties shall amend this Agreement to
include the Base Year value of such parcels, as determined by the Salt Lake County Assessor, in
the Base Taxable Value defined by this Agreement. Furthermore, in the event any parcels within
the Tax Increment Collection Area are held in greenbelt status, then the Parties agree that when
such parcels are withdrawn from greenbelt status, any rollback taxes due shall be paid to the
                                          Page 10 of 27
Taxing Entities (as is typically the case) and not to the Agency.

        5.3.   Construction of Project. The Agency shall cause the redevelopment in the Project
Area to be prosecuted with due diligence and continuity and shall complete the redevelopment in
the Project Area in accordance with the Project Area Plan, the Project Area Budget, and the
terms of this Agreement.

       5.4.   Costs and Expenses. The Agency shall pay all costs and expenses required in
connection with its obligations under this Agreement.

        5.5.   Recordkeeping. The Agency shall maintain records adequate to identify the use
of County Tax Increment for the purposes specified in this Agreement. The Agency shall make
its books and records available to the County and its representatives at reasonable times.

       5.6.    Right to Verify and Audit. The County reserves the right to verify the
information furnished to the County by the Agency in connection with the CDA Participation
Request and to audit the Agency’s use of Tax Increment, including County Tax Increment,
received by the Agency under this Agreement and other agreements as well as the accounting of
such use of Tax Increment, including County Tax Increment. If the County requests an audit, the
Agency agrees to cooperate fully with the County and its representatives in the performance of
the audit.

        5.7.   Noncompliance. The Agency agrees that the County may withhold its Tax
Increment or require repayment of County Tax Increment from the Agency for noncompliance
with this Agreement, for failure to comply with directives regarding the use of Tax Increment, or
for misuse of Tax Increment. The County shall give the Agency thirty (30) days written notice
to cure any noncompliance prior to withholding Tax Increment as set forth herein. The County
may not withhold Tax Increment if the Agency cures the noncompliance within that thirty (30)
day period.

        5.8.     No Officer or Employee Interest. The Agency represents and agrees that no
officer or employee of the Agency or the County has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct
or indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the performance of this Agreement.

         5.9.   Ethical Standards. The Agency represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal
gift in connection with this Agreement to any County officer or employee, or former County
officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of a County officer or employee, or
relative or business entity of a former County officer or employee; (b) retained any person to
solicit or secure this Agreement upon an agreement or understanding for a commission,
percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial
agencies established for the purpose of securing such agreements; (c) breached any of the ethical
standards in connection with this Agreement set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County Code
of Ordinances § 2.07; or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not
knowingly influence, in connection with this Agreement, any County officer or employee or
former County officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute
or Salt Lake County ordinances.


                                          Page 11 of 27
         5.10. Additional Requests for County Tax Increment. The Agency agrees that, during
the Tax Increment Collection Period, the Agency will not request a contribution of additional
County Tax Increment from the County relating to the remaining 604 acres of the Project Area—
that is, the 604 acres of the Project Area that are not within the Tax Increment Collection Area—
unless the request relates to a significant economic development project that is not primarily
retail or market-rate housing.

                           ARTICLE 6 -– DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES

       6.1.    Agency Event of Default. Unless otherwise addressed under paragraph 2.6 of this
Agreement, the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall constitute an “Event of
Default” as such term is used herein:

               (a)    Any representation or statement made by (or on behalf of) the Agency in
       this Agreement or in connection with the Agency’s CDA Participation Request proves
       untrue in any material respect.

               (b)    Failure of the Agency to comply with any of the terms, conditions,
       covenants, or provisions of this Agreement that is not fully cured by the Agency on or
       before the expiration of a thirty (30) day period commencing upon the County’s written
       notice to the Agency of the occurrence thereof. In no event shall the County claim an
       Event of Default under this Article 6 or under any other provision of this Agreement
       without providing the written notice set forth herein. Some non-compliance and
       violations may by their nature not be able to be fully cured. Providing such written notice
       does not excuse the Agency’s requirement to fully cure nor imply that such a cure is
       possible.

               (c)    The Agency makes changes to the Project Area Plan or the Proposed
       Amended Project Area Budget without prior written consent from the County, or
       ultimately adopts a Project Area Plan or Project Area Budget that is different from the
       Project Area Plan or Proposed Amended Project Area budget attached hereto.

               (d)    The County reasonably determines that the Agency’s use of County Tax
       Increment or Tax Increment differs materially from the uses identified and contemplated
       by the Project Area Plan and Proposed Amended Project Area Budget.

               (e)    The County reasonably determines that the Agency’s actions or activities
       within the Project Area materially deviate from the actions or activities contemplated by
       the Project Area Plan or the Proposed Amended Project Area Budget.

              (f)      The County reasonably determines that a Material Adverse Change has
       occurred that is not fully cured by the Agency on or before the expiration of a thirty (30)
       day period commencing upon the County’s written notice to the Agency of the
       occurrence thereof.

               (g)    The failure of any developer or contractor that has entered into a
       Participation Agreement with the Agency to complete a material portion of the
       redevelopment within the Project Area, whether such failure is due to bankruptcy,
                                          Page 12 of 27
       insolvency, economic conditions or otherwise, and the failure of the Agency to cause the
       such redevelopment to be completed by a new substitute developer or contractor within
       two-years of the completion date contemplated by the Project Area Plan and Project Area
       Budget for such redevelopment.

       6.2.    County’s Remedies in the Event of Default. Upon the occurrence of any Event of
Default, the County may, in its sole discretion, and in addition to all remedies conferred upon the
County by law or equity and other provisions of this Agreement, pursue any one or more of the
following remedies concurrently or successively, it being the intent hereof that none of such
remedies shall be to the exclusion of any other:

              (a)     Direct the Salt Lake County Auditor and/or Salt Lake County Treasurer to
       withhold further disbursement of County Tax Increment to the Agency; and/or

              (b)    Direct the Salt Lake County Auditor and/or Salt Lake County Treasurer to
       reduce the amount of any disbursement of County Tax Increment to the Agency; and/or

               (c)     Terminate this Agreement.

                               ARTICLE 7 -– GENERAL PROVISIONS

        7.1.   Effective Date. This Agreement will become effective immediately upon the
completion of the following: (i) the approval of the Agreement by the governing bodies of the
County and the Agency, including the adoption of any necessary resolutions or ordinances by the
County and the Agency authorizing the execution of this Agreement by the appropriate
person or persons for the County and the Agency, respectively, (ii) the execution of this
Agreement by a duly authorized official of each of the Parties, (iii) the submission of this
Agreement to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to represent said Party for review as
to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant to Section 11-13-202.5 of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, and the approval of each respective attorney, (iv) the filing of a
copy of this Agreement with the keeper of records of each Party, and (v) the publication of a
summary of this Agreement pursuant to Section 17C-4-202 of the Act (the “Effective Date”).

        7.2.    Termination. This Agreement will terminate on the earlier of the following: (i) 90
days after the Effective Date of this Agreement, if the conditions listed in Section 2.5 have not
been satisfied prior to that date; (ii) the date the Tax Increment Collection Period expires; or (iii)
the date the County terminates this Agreement due to an Event of Default under Section 6.1.

        7.3.   Interlocal Cooperation Act. In satisfaction of the requirements of the Interlocal
Act in connection with this Agreement, the Parties agree as follows:

               (a)     This Agreement shall be authorized by a resolution of the legislative body
       of each Party pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section 11-13-202.5 of
       the Interlocal Act.




                                           Page 13 of 27
              (b)     This Agreement shall be reviewed as to proper form and compliance with
       applicable law by a duly authorized attorney in behalf of each Party pursuant to and in
       accordance with Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act.

               (c)     A duly executed original counterpart of this Agreement shall be filed
       immediately with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-13-209 of
       the Interlocal Act.

               (d)     The term of this Agreement, including any extensions, shall not exceed
       fifty (50) years pursuant to Section 11-13-216 of the Interlocal Act.

              (e)     Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, each Party shall be
       responsible for its own costs of any action done pursuant to this Agreement, and for any
       financing of such costs.

                (f)    No separate legal entity is created by the terms of this Agreement and no
       facility or improvement will be jointly acquired, jointly owned, or jointly operated by the
       Parties under this Agreement.

               (g)      To the extent this Agreement requires administration other than as set
       forth herein, it shall be administered by the chief administrative officer of each Party
       pursuant to Section 11-13-207 of the Interlocal Act.

        7.4.    Publication of Notice. Immediately after execution of this Agreement by the
Parties, the Agency shall cause to be published a notice regarding this Agreement and the
Parties’ resolutions authorizing this Agreement, as provided and allowed pursuant to Section 11-
13-219 of the Interlocal Act and in accordance with Section 17C-4-202 of the Act. The County
agrees that the Agency shall cause such publication of notice to be made on the County’s behalf
and at the Agecny’s expense, in a joint publication.

       7.5.   Notices.

              (a)     Form of Notice. All notices, communications, requests, and waivers
       required or permitted under this Agreement (“Notices”) must be in writing and must be
       signed by a person duly authorized to provide such notice.

               (b)     Method of Notice. All Notices shall be given (i) by delivery in person, (ii)
       by a nationally recognized next day courier service; or (iii) by first class, registered or
       certified mail, postage prepaid. Notices may also be given by electronic mail, provided
       that any such communication is concurrently given by one of the methods set forth in the
       preceding sentence. All Notices shall be addressed in each case as follows (or to such
       other address as either party may specify in writing from time to time):

                      To Agency:             Redevelopment Agency of Riverton City
                                             Attention: Riverton City Manager
                                             12830 South Redwood Road
                                             Riverton, Utah, 84065

                                          Page 14 of 27
               With a copy to:        Riverton City Attorney
                                      12830 South Redwood Road
                                      Riverton, Utah, 84065

               To County:             Salt Lake County
                                      Office of Regional Development
                                      2001 South State Street, S2-100
                                      PO Box 144575
                                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
                                      Attn: Director

               With a copy to:        Office of the District Attorney
                                      2001 South State Street, S3-600
                                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84190-1210
                                      Attn: Jason Rose

        (c)      Recipt of Notice. All Notices sent pursuant to this Section will be deemed
to have been duly given: (i) if delivered in person, on the date of delivery, (ii) if
transmitted by national overnight courier (with confirmation of delivery), on the next
federal banking day immediately following the day sent, or (iii) if sent by registered or
certified mail, then on the earlier of the third federal banking day following the day sent
or when actually received.

7.6.   Governmental Immunity, Liability, and Indemnification.

       (a)     Governmental Immunity. Both Parties are governmental entities under the
Governmental Immunity Act of Utah, §§ 63G-7-101 et seq. (the “Immunity
Act”). Neither Party waives any defenses or limits of liability available under the
Immunity Act and other applicable law. Both Parties maintain all privileges, immunities,
and other rights granted by the Immunity Act and all other applicable law.

         (b)     Liability and Indemnification. The County and the Agency agree to be
liable for their own negligent acts or omissions, or those of their authorized employees,
officers, and agents while engaged in the performance of the obligations under this
Agreement, and neither the County nor the Agency will have any liability whatsoever for
any negligent act or omission of the other Party, its employees, officers, or agents.
However, the Agency shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the County, its officers,
employees and agents (the “Indemnified Parties”) from and against any and all actual or
threatened claims, losses, damages, injuries, debts, and liabilities of, to, or by third
parties, including demands for repayment or penalties, however allegedly caused,
resulting directly or indirectly from, or arising out of: (i) the Agency’s breach of this
Agreement; (ii) any acts or omissions of or by the Agency, its agents, representatives,
officers, employees, or subcontractors in connection with the performance of this
Agreement; (iii) or the Agency’s use of County Tax Increment. The Agency agrees that
its duty to defend and indemnify the Indemnified Parties under this Agreement includes
all attorney’s fees, litigation and court costs, expert witness fees, and any sums expended
                                  Page 15 of 27
       by or assessed against the County for the defense of any claim or to satisfy any
       settlement, arbitration award, debt, penalty, or verdict paid or incurred on behalf of the
       County. The Parties agree that the requirements of this Paragraph will survive the
       expiration or sooner termination of this Agreement.

         7.7.    Modification and Amendment. This Agreement may be amended, enlarged,
modified or altered only by an instrument in writing. The modification or amendment will
become effective immediately upon the completion of the following: (i) the approval of the
amendment by the governing bodies of the County and the Agency, including the adoption of any
necessary resolutions or ordinances by the County and the Agency authorizing the execution of
the amendment by the appropriate person or persons for the County and the Agency,
respectively, (ii) the execution of the amendment by a duly authorized official of each of the
Parties, (iii) the submission of the amendment to an attorney for each Party that is authorized to
represent said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, pursuant
to Section 11-13-202.5 of the Interlocal Act, and the approval of each respective attorney, (iv)
the filing of a copy of the amendment with the keeper of records of each Party, and (v) the
publication of a summary of the amendment pursuant to Section 17C-4-202 of the Act.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, enforcement of any amended or modified provisions set forth
herein, or in any amendment or modification to this Agreement, may occur upon completion of
subsections (i) - (iii) of this section 7.7.

        7.8.    Further Documents and Acts. Each of the Parties hereto agrees to cooperate in
good faith with the other to execute and deliver such further documents and perform such other
acts as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to consummate and carry into effect the
intent and transactions contemplated under this Agreement.

        7.9.   Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the exhibits attached hereto constitute the
entire agreement between the Parties pertaining to the subject matter hereof, and all prior
agreements, representations, negotiations and understandings of the Parties hereto, oral or
written, express or implied, are hereby superseded by this Agreement. This Agreement may not
be enlarged, modified or altered, except in writing, signed by the Parties as explained in Section
7.7 above.

        7.10. No Waiver. The failure of either Party at any time to require performance of any
provision or to resort to any remedy provided under this Agreement will in no way affect the
right of that Party to require performance or to resort to a remedy at any time thereafter.
Additionally, the waiver of any breach of this Agreement by either Party will not constitute a
waiver as to any future breach, and no extension of time for performance of any obligation or act
shall be deemed an extension of the time for performance of any other obligation or act.

        7.11. No Obligations to Third Parties. The Parties agree that the Agency’s obligations
under this Agreement are solely to the County and that the County’s obligations under this
Agreement are solely to the Agency. The Parties do not intend to confer any rights to third
parties unless otherwise expressly provided for under this Agreement.

       7.12.   Agency. No officer, employee, or agent of one Party is intended to be an officer,

                                          Page 16 of 27
employee, or agent of the other Party. None of the benefits provided by one Party to its
employees including, but not limited to, workers’ compensation insurance, health insurance and
unemployment insurance, are available to the officers, employees, or agents of the other Party.
The Agency and the County will each be solely and entirely responsible for its acts and for the
acts of its officers, employees, or agents during the performance of this Agreement.

         7.13. Assignment. No Party may assign its benefits, rights, duties or obligations under
this Agreement without obtaining prior written consent from the other Party. If this Agreement is
assigned, the nonassigning party maintains all rights and benefits provided under this Agreement
as it pertains to the party to whom this Agreement is assigned.

        7.14. Governing Law and Venue. The laws of the State of Utah govern all matters
arising out of this Agreement. Venue for any and all legal actions arising hereunder will lie in
the District Court in and for the County of Salt Lake, State of Utah.

        7.15. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement and any related document shall
be held invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction or as a result of future
legislative action, the Parties agree that:

               (a)    such holding or action will be strictly construed;

               (b)    such provision will be fully severable;

              (c)    this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if such provision had
       never comprised a part hereof;

              (d)      the remaining provisions of this Agreement and related documents will
       remain in full force and effect and will not be affected by the invalid or unenforceable
       provision or by its severance from this Agreement; and

               (e)     in lieu of such illegal, invalid, or unenforceable provision, the Parties
       hereto will use commercially reasonable efforts to negotiate in good faith a substitute,
       legal, valid, and enforceable provision that most nearly effects the Parties’ intent in
       entering into this Agreement.

        7.16. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts and all so
executed will constitute one agreement binding on all the Parties, it being understood that all
parties need not sign the same counterpart. Further, executed copies of this Agreement delivered
by facsimile or email will be deemed an original signed copy of this Agreement.

       Each Party hereby signs this Interlocal Cooperation Agreement on the date written by
each Party on the signature pages attached hereto.

            [The balance of this page was left blank intentionally – Signature pages follow]




                                          Page 17 of 27
      INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR COUNTY


                                                      SALT LAKE COUNTY:


                                                      By _____________________________________
                                                      Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee

                                                      Dated: ______________________, 20____




Approved as to Form and Legality:

SALT LAKE COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY


                       Digitally signed by Jason S.

      Jason S. Rose    Rose
                       Date: 2020.12.10 16:08:43
By_________________________________
                       -07'00'

    Deputy District Attorney




                                     [Signatures continue on next page.]




                                                  Page 18 of 27
      INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR AGENCY



                                         REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF
                                         RIVERTON CITY:


                                         By __________________________________

                                         Name: _______________________________

                                         Title: ________________________________

                                         Dated: ______________________, 20______




Approved as to Form and Legality:

ATTORNEY FOR AGENCY

By_________________________________

Name: _____________________________
           Attorney for Agency
Dated: _______________________, 20____




                                    Page 19 of 27
LIST OF EXHIBITS


EXHIBIT A      Project Area Plan

EXHIBIT B      Proposed Amended Project Area Budget

EXHIBIT C      Redevelopment Agency of Riverton City’s CDA Participation Request

EXHIBIT D      Countywide Policy No. 1155

EXHIBIT E      Infrastrucuture Agreement between Riverton City and Suburban Land
               Reserve, Inc.

EXHIBIT F      Tax Increment Collection Area – Parcel Numbers and Map

EXHIBIT G      Previous INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT for the
               Western Commercial District Community Development Project Area




                                   Page 20 of 27
EXHIBIT A
 Project Area Plan




EXHIBIT A
 Project Area Plan


  Page 21 of 27
    EXHIBIT B
Proposed Amended Project Area Budget




    EXHIBIT B
Proposed Amended Project Area Budget


           Page 22 of 27
EXHIBIT C
CDA Participation Request




EXHIBIT C
CDA Participation Request


      Page 23 of 27
EXHIBIT D
Countywide Policy No. 1155




EXHIBIT D
Countywide Policy No. 1155
      Page 24 of 27
                         EXHIBIT E
Infrastrucuture Agreement between Riverton City and Suburban Land Reserve, Inc.




                         EXHIBIT E
Infrastrucuture Agreement between Riverton City and Suburban Land Reserve, Inc.


                                Page 25 of 27
             EXHIBIT F
 Tax Increment Collection Area – Parcel Numbers and Map




             EXHIBIT F
Tax Increment Collection Area – Parcel Numbers and Map



                    Page 26 of 27
EXHIBIT G
  Previous Agreement




EXHIBIT G
 Previous Agreement



   Page 27 of 27
