                                    MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                    WORKSHOP MEETING
                                          AGENDA
                                       January 14, 2025
                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

  PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a workshop
  meeting on the 14th day of January 2025 at the Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street
  Magna, Utah as follows:

  ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
  of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  Anticipated meeting duration: 1:45

  6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
   1. CALL TO ORDER
   2. Determine Quorum
   3. Pledge of Allegiance

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
           Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
      this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
      Persons signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
      Comment” form. Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give
      their name for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an
      effort to be both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help
      govern public meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during
      public comment. However, Magna City staff will be responsible for responding directly to
      citizens who request a response. Should an item on tonight's agenda generate a question you
      would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance. Please scan the QR code and send
      your question directly to city staff. The City Council will not interrupt the evening's agenda to
      take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has commenced. Comments should
      be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the
      Governing Body.

   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
      A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)
      B. Pleasant Green Cemetery – Sharon Nicholes (5 minutes)

   6. PRESENTATION ITEMS


1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
      A. Audited FY2024 Financial Statement Presentation – Stewart Okobia, Director of Finance
         (10 minutes)
      B. “Communities that Care Magna” Presentation of Grant Opportunity – Council Member Hull,
         Jordan Petersen, and Emily Hamilton (15 minutes)
      C. ChamberWest Presentation - Barbara Riddle, President/CEO ChamberWest (5 minutes)
      D. The City Journal – Bryan Scott (5 minutes)

   7. CONSENT AGENDA
      A. Approve Minutes from the December 10, 2024 City Council Meeting - Diana Baun, City
         Recorder (5 minutes)

   8. COUNCIL BUSINESS: Discussion Items
      A. Discussion Regarding State Required Update to General Plan for Water Elements – Dan
         Torres, Economic Development Manager (5 minutes)
      B. Update on Proposed “Franchise Agreement between Magna City and Magna Water” – Paul
         Ashton, City Attorney (5 minutes)
      C. Discussion Regarding CUP2024-001185 Delay Agreement for Right-of-Way Improvements:
         2100 S. – Justin Smith, Planner (5 minutes)
      D. 2025 Annual Conflict of Interest Forms for Council Members and staff – Diana Baun, City
         Recorder (5 minutes)
      E. Open and Public Meetings Act Training Requirements (5 minutes) – Paul Ashton, City
         Attorney
      F. Discussion Regarding Resolution R2025-01, Fourth Amendment to the Master Interlocal
         Agreement among the MSD, Salt Lake County, Town of Copperton, Emigration Canyon,
         City of Kearns, Magna City and White City for Municipal, Administrative and Operational
         Services. – Paul Ashton, City Attorney (5 minutes)


   9. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (10 minutes)

   10. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

   11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
           individual.
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

   12. ADJOURN


      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

      When: January 14, 2025, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

      Register in advance for this webinar at:
      https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ

2 | P ag e                        M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
      After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
      webinar.

        Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
   meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
   Magna City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
   https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
   participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
   reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED: January 10, 2025




3 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
