                                    MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                  BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                                        January 28, 2025

                                          Webster Center
                                    8952 West Magna Main Street
                                        Magna, Utah 84044

   PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a business meeting
   on the 28th day of January 2025 at the Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah
   as follows:

   ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
   of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

   Anticipated meeting duration: 1:05

   6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
    1. CALL TO ORDER
    2. Determine Quorum
    3. Pledge of Allegiance

     4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
             Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance. Persons
signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public Comment” form.
Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give their name for the record.
The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to be both transparent and
responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help govern public meetings. As such,
Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during public comment. However, Magna City
staff will be responsible for responding directly to citizens who request a response. Should an item on
tonight's agenda generate a question you would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance.
Please scan the QR code and send your question directly to city staff. The City Council will not interrupt
the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has commenced.
Comments should be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by
the Governing Body.

    5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
       A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)
       B. Pleasant Green Cemetery – Sharon Nicholes (5 minutes)
       C. Magna 4th of July - Kari Duckworth (5 minutes)

    6. PRESENTATION ITEMS - None


 1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
   7. CONSENT AGENDA – Mayor Barney (3 minutes)
      A. Approve City Council Meeting Minutes
            a. July 23, 2024 City Council Meeting
            b. January 14, 2025 City Council Meeting
      B. Approve Memorandum of Understanding Between Magna City and KMH Consulting and
         Government Affairs Regarding Legislative Representation during the 2025 Utah Legislative
         Session.
      C. Approve Consulting Agreement between Magna City and Lincoln Hill Partners, LLC.

   8. COUNCIL BUSINESS:
      A. Discussion and Possible Action Regarding CUP2024-001185 Delay Agreement for Right-of-
         Way Improvements: 2100 S. – Justin Smith, Planner (5 minutes)
      B. Discussion and Possible Action Regarding Approval of Resolution R2025-01, Fourth
         Amendment to the Master Interlocal Agreement among the MSD, Salt Lake County, Town
         of Copperton, Emigration Canyon, City of Kearns, Magna City and White City for
         Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services. – Paul Ashton, City Attorney (5
         minutes)
      C. Discussion Only Regarding Potential Membership with ChamberWest – Council Member
         Hull (5 minutes)
      D. Discussion Only Regarding Potential Agreement with The City Journal – Council Member
         Hull (5 minutes)
      E. Acceptance of Tentative Administrative Budget for FY 2026 – Dave Sanderson, Accountant
         (5 minutes)


   9. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (10 minutes)

   10. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

   11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
           individual.
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

   12. ADJOURN


      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

      When: January 28, 2025, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

      Register in advance for this webinar at:
      https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ


2 | P ag e                        M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
      After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
      webinar.

        Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
   meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
   Magna City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
   https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
   participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
   reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED: January 24, 2025




3 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
