                                     MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                      MEETING AGENDA
                                         April 8, 2025

                                          Webster Center
                                    8952 West Magna Main Street
                                        Magna, Utah 84044

   PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a meeting for
   presentation, discussion, and possible action at 6:00 PM on the 8th day of April 2025 at the Webster
   Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

   ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
   of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

   Anticipated meeting duration: 125 Minutes

   6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
    1. CALL TO ORDER
    2. Determine Quorum
    3. Pledge of Allegiance

     4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
             Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance. Persons
signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public Comment” form.
Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give their name for the record.
The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to be both transparent and
responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help govern public meetings. As such,
Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during public comment. However, Magna City
staff will be responsible for responding directly to citizens who request a response. Should an item on
tonight's agenda generate a question you would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance.
Please scan the QR code and send your question directly to city staff. The City Council will not interrupt
the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has commenced.
Comments should be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by
the Governing Body.

    5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
       A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)
       B. Pleasant Green Cemetery – Sharon Nicholes (5 minutes)
       C. Magna 4th of July - Kari Duckworth (5 minutes)




 1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
   6. CONSENT AGENDA – Mayor Eric Barney (3 minutes)
      A. Approve City Council Meeting Minutes
            1) March 25, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes

   7. PRESENTATION ITEMS
      A. Legislative Report – Kory Holdaway (10 minutes)
      B. New Magna Website – Maridene Alexander, Communications Manager (10 minutes)
      C. Discuss Communities That Care (CTC) and Magna City Memorandum of Understanding
         (MOU) – Trish Hull, Council Member (5 minutes)
      D. Discuss Recommendations from Subcommittees Regarding the FY2026 Magna Fee Schedule
         – Mayor Eric Barney (10 minutes)
      E. Discuss Recommendations from Subcommittees Regarding Amending Magna City Code,
         Specifically Title 8, Animals – Brian Tucker, Planning Manager (5 minutes)
      F. Discuss Recommendations from Subcommittees Regarding Amending Magna City Code,
         Specifically Section 11.20, Stopping, Standing and Parking – Daniel Torres, Economic
         Development Manager (10 minutes)
      G. Discussion Regarding Ordinance 2025-O-02, An Ordinance of the Magna City Council
         Amending the Zoning Map to Change the Zone of the Property Located at 7305 W 2100 S
         from A-20 (Agricultural) to M-2 (Manufacturing) – Justin Smith, Planner (10 minutes)
      H. Discussion Regarding Ordinance 2025-O-03, An Ordinance of the Magna City Council
         Amending the Zoning Map to Change the Zone of the Property located at 7563 W 2820 S
         from A-1/ZC (Agricultural) to R-1-8 (Residential) – Justin Smith, Planner (10 minutes)
      I. Discussion Regarding Adoption of Engineering Standards and Specifications – Tamaran
         Woodland, Engineering Manager (5 minutes)

   8. COUNCIL BUSINESS:
      A. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding the FY 2026 Magna City Tentative Budget
         Approval – Dave Sanderson, Accountant (10 minutes)

   9. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (10 minutes)

   10. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

   11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH
       CODE §52-4-205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
           individual.
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

   12. ADJOURN

ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

When: April 8, 2025, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

Register in advance for this webinar at:


2 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ

After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the webinar.

Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, in
support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To request
assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna City
website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at https://www.utah.gov/pmn/.
Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate electronically. Pursuant
to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute.

POSTED: April 6, 2025




3 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
