                              COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
                                 AGENCY OF MAGNA
                                     AGENDA
                                    April 8, 2025
                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

  PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Community Reinvestment Agency (CRA) of
  Magna will hold a business meeting on the 8th day of April, 2025 at the Webster Center, 8952 West
  Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

  ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
  of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  Anticipated meeting duration: 15 minutes

  5:30 PM – COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY
  1. CALL TO ORDER
  2. Determine Quorum
  3. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
            Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing
     on this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
     Person’s signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
     Comment” form. Persons addressing the CRA shall step-up to the microphone and give their
     name for the record. The CRA is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to be
     both transparent and responsive, the CRA Board Members cannot respond directly to comments
     during public comment. However, the CRA Executive Director will be responsible for
     responding directly to citizens who request a response. Should an item on tonight's agenda
     generate a question you would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance. Please
     scan the QR code and send your question directly to CRA Staff. The CRA Board will not
     interrupt the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has
     commenced. Comments should be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional
     time is authorized by the Governing Body.

  4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
        a. Approval of the February 11, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes – Diana Baun, Secretary (2
           minutes)
        b. SLCo. Redevelopment Agency property transfer update – Board Chair Eric Barney (10
           minutes)

  5. CLOSED SESSIONS AS NEEDED PURSUANT TO UTAH STAE CODE §52-4-205
       a. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health
          of an individual.
       b. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       c. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.

1 | P ag e                         M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
         d. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
         e. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

  6. ADJOURN

      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna

      When: April 8, 2025 05:30 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada) Register in

       advance for this webinar at:
    https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ

      After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
    webinar.

        Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
   meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
   Magna City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
   https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
   participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
   reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED:        April 6, 2025




2 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
                                 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
                                 AGENCY OF MAGNA MEETING
                                 FEBRUARY 11, 2025, 5:30 PM
                                 WEBSTER COMMUNITY CENTER
                                 8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN STREET
                                 MAGNA, UTAH 84044


                COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY MEETING MINUTES

Board Members Present:                                   Board Members Excused:
Eric Barney
Steve Prokopis
Audrey Pierce
Mick Sudbury
Trish Hull

Staff Present:
David Brickey, City Manager
Diana Baun, Secretary


Others Present:
None

1. Call to Order

Board Member Eric Barney, presiding, called the meeting to order at 5:30 PM.

2. Determine Quorum

A quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed.

3. PUBLIC COMMENTS

None

4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS

       A. Approval of the 01/14/2025 CRA Meeting Minutes – Diana Baun, Secretary

Board Member Hull moved to approve the January 14, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes as
published. Board Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in
favor. Board Member Pierce was absent from the vote.

B. Salt Lake County Redevelopment Agency Transfer Update – Board Member Eric Barney


                             CRA OF MAGNA BOARD MEMBERS
                             ERIC BARNEY, AUDREY PIERCE, TRISH HULL,
                                  STEVE PROKOPIS, MICK SUDBURY
Board Member Eric Barney met with Kirsten Swinyard from Salt Lake County to discuss the
property transfers, they are all on board.

Board Member Pierce joined the meeting.

All properties previously discussed are being transferred, that includes the three parcels on
9150, also known as Magna Neighborhood Park. Two of those parcels are owned by the RDA,
one is owned by Salt Lake County. Those parcels will be transferred straight to the city from
the current owner entities, as well as the detention basin next to Copper Park. There was no
specific time frame given, as there is some legislative work that has to happen related to the
County Council, but they all appear to be on board. The attorneys on the call did not indicate
they saw any issues holding this up. Regarding the properties on Main Street within the RDA
area, even if county owned, will transfer to the RDA.

Paul Ashton noted that when the county transfers parks, they include a clause that the
property remain a park.

Board Member Barney indicated that in discussion with the attorneys, they share that clause is
not present in any of the current agreements for the above-mentioned park properties.
Regarding the Arbor Park area, there are two RDA-type entities in that area. One that is active
currently, with funding being collected and distributed on. The other has been floating out there
and should have been terminated but wasn’t, so once discovered they are terminating that
property. Since all the increment in the Arbor Park RDA has all been allocated there isn’t really
anything left to do other than let it run its time out.

David Brickey shared the county is sending the Arbor Park RDA to the city, but at the present
time they are terminating the increment to be paid out which is one of the reasons for the
delay. They are doing it this year so the city can see how that allocation takes place and is
calculated, so next year when the city has the obligation there is an example to follow.

Board Member Sudbury asked about the issue with the ditch, piping and cap. Didn’t they get
that stamped off?

David Brickey responded that Don submitted some numbers yesterday, Ms. Allen reviewed
them, and he indicated the rest could be discussed during a closed session.

Board Member Barney indicated that was city business to be discussed in another meeting,
and the matter was dropped.

5.   CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED (AS ALLOWED UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205)

      A. Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental
      Health of an Individual.
      B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
      C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.



      CRA of Magna • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
      D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
      E. Other lawful purposes as listing in Utah Code 52-4-205

No Closed Session necessary.


6.   ADJOURN

Board Member Sudbury moved to adjourn the February 11, 2025 Community
Reinvestment Agency of Magna meeting. Board Member Hull seconded the motion; vote
was 5-0, unanimous in favor.
The February 11, 2025 Magna Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting adjourned at
5:40 PM.


This is a true and correct copy of the February 11, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes, which
were approved on April 8, 2025.


Attest:




                                               Eric Barney, Board Member




Diana Baun, Secretary




      CRA of Magna • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
