                                   MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                    MEETING AGENDA
                                       June 10, 2025
                                      AMENDED AGENDA
                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

      PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a meeting for
      presentation, discussion, and possible action at 6:00 PM on the 10th day of June 2025 at the
      Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

      ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to
      any of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

      Anticipated meeting duration: 80 Minutes

      6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
       1. CALL TO ORDER
       2. Determine Quorum
       3. Pledge of Allegiance

        4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
           Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
   this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
   Persons signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
   Comment” form. Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give their
   name for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to
   be both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help govern public
   meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during public comment.
   However, Magna City staff will be responsible for responding directly to citizens who request a
   response. Should an item on tonight's agenda generate a question you would like answered, there is a
   QR code at the front entrance. Please scan the QR code and send your question directly to city staff.
   The City Council will not interrupt the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once
   the formal meeting has commenced. Comments should be limited to not more than three (3)
   minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Governing Body.

       5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
          A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)
          B. Financial Report – Dave Sanderson, Accountant (5 minutes)

       6. CONSENT AGENDA
          A. Approval of City Council Meeting Minutes
                  • May 27, 2025 City Council Meeting



1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
       7. PRESENTATION ITEMS
          A. Yuzawa Exchange Program Presentation – Connor Hansen (10 minutes)
          B. Discussion of Capital Improvement Projects on Existing Roads with Limited Right-of-
             Way, Configuration Discussion and Determination – Jacob Harris, Engineer (10
             minutes)


       8. COUNCIL BUSINESS:
          A. American Ramp Proposal for Skate Park/Pump Track at Copper Park – David Brickey,
             City Manager (10 minutes)
          B. Oquirrh Hills Performing Arts Alliance/The Empress Theatre Group Fund Request –
             Candice Jorgensen, Applicant (5 minutes)
          C. Discussion Regarding Pickleball Court at Magna Neighborhood Park – Dan Torres,
             Economic Development Manager (5 minutes)
          D. Discussion Regarding Tree/Landscape Plan for Copper and Neighborhood Parks – Dan
             Torres, Economic Development Manager (5 minutes)
          E. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Ordinance 2025-O-09, Adopting the
             FY2026 Magna City Fee Schedule – David Brickey, City Manager

       9. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (10 minutes)

       10. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

       11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH
           CODE §52-4-205
           A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health
               of an individual.
           B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
           C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
           D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
           E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

       12. ADJOURN

    ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

    When: June 10, 2025, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
    Register in advance for this webinar at:
    https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/7lrwgPtKQz20aTBbGEabfg
    After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
    webinar.

    Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District,
    in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To
    request assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

    A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna
    City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
    https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
    participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for

2 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
    reasons allowed by statute.

    POSTED: June 8, 2025




3 | P ag e                        M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
