                              MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                           SPECIAL MEETING AGENDA
                                  June 18, 2024

                                      Webster Center
                                  8952 West Magna Main Street
                                      Magna, Utah 84044

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a special meeting on
the 18th day of June 2024 at the Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as
follows:

** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any of
the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
 1. CALL TO ORDER
 2. Determine Quorum
 3. Pledge of Allegiance

4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
   Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on the
   agenda may address the Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving their name
   for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to be
   both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help govern public
   meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during ‘public comment.’
   However, Magna staff will be responsible for responding directly to citizens who request a response.
   Comments should be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is
   authorized by the Governing Body.

5. DISCUSSION ITEMS
   A. Discussion and Consideration of Resolution No. 2024-06-03 Adopting the 2024 Certified
      Property Tax Rate for Magna City [David Brickey, City Manager]

     B. Discuss Mantle Park Materials for Magna City [David Brickey, City Manager]

     C. Discuss Form or Government (5 Member, 6 Member, Strong Mayor)

     D. Terms and Conditions allowing the use of Beer in City Parks [David Brickey, City Manager]

6. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205)
   A. Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental Health of an
       Individual.
   B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
   C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
   D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
   E. Other lawful purposes as listing in Utah Code 52-4-205

1|Page                             Magna.Utah.gov
7. ADJOURN

    ZOOM MEETING:

    Topic: Magna City Council Special Meeting

    When: Jun 18, 2024 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

    Register in advance for this webinar:
    https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_H0A8O9seSKWKz8UFiMFMQQ

    After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
    webinar.


     Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District,
in support of the Magna Metro Township, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

     A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna
Metro Township website at www.magnametrotownship.org and the State Public Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov . Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate
electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-205, Parts of Meetings may be Closed for Reasons
Allowed by Statute.

POSTED:        June 14, 2024




2|Page                              Magna.Utah.gov
