                                   MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                    MEETING AGENDA
                                       July 8, 2025
                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

      PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a meeting for
      presentation, discussion, and possible action at 6:00 PM on the 8th day of July 2025 at the
      Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

      ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to
      any of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

      Anticipated meeting duration: 70 Minutes

      6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
       1. CALL TO ORDER
       2. Determine Quorum
       3. Pledge of Allegiance

        4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
           Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
   this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
   Persons signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
   Comment” form. Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give their
   name for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to
   be both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help govern public
   meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during public comment.
   However, Magna City staff will be responsible for responding directly to citizens who request a
   response. Should an item on tonight's agenda generate a question you would like answered, there is a
   QR code at the front entrance. Please scan the QR code and send your question directly to city staff.
   The City Council will not interrupt the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once
   the formal meeting has commenced. Comments should be limited to not more than three (3)
   minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Governing Body.

       5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
          A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)

       6. CONSENT AGENDA
          A. Approval of City Council Meeting Minutes (3 minutes)
              • November 26, 2024 City Council Meeting
              • April 22, 2025 City Council Meeting
              • June 24, 2025 City Council Meeting



1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
       7. PRESENTATION ITEMS
          A. Water Supply Issues – Proposed Property Tax Increase by Jordan Valley Water
             Conservancy District for Water Service Purposes – Council Member, Mick Sudbury (10
             minutes)
          B. Park Plan Study Request for $20,000 - Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager
             (5 minutes)
          C. Pavement Management Presentation – Steven Kuhlmeier, Public Works (20 minutes)
          D. Appointing an Alternate for the MSD Board – Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel (5 minutes)
          E. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Resolution R2025-07, Accepting Property
             on Behalf of Magna City from the Magna City Community Reinvestment Agency –
             Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel (5 minutes)

       8. COUNCIL BUSINESS - None

       9. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (10 minutes)

       10. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

       11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH
           CODE §52-4-205
           A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health
               of an individual.
           B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
           C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
           D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
           E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

       12. ADJOURN

    ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

    When: July 8, 2025, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
    Register in advance for this webinar at:
    https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/7lrwgPtKQz20aTBbGEabfg
    After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
    webinar. Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
    District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
    meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.
    A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna
    City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
    https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
    participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
    reasons allowed by statute.

    POSTED: July 5, 2025




2 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
                               MAGNA CITY
                               COUNCIL MEETING
                               NOVEMBER 26, 2024, 6:00 PM
                               WEBSTER COMMUNITY CENTER
                               8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN STREET
                               MAGNA, UTAH 84044


                       MAGNA CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                         **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

Council Members Present:
Eric Barney, Mayor
Trish Hull
Steve Prokopis
Audrey Pierce (via Zoom)
Mick Sudbury

Staff Present:
David Brickey, City Manager
Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel
Daniel Torres, Economic Development Director
Nicole Smedley, Recorder (via zoom)
Brian Tucker, Planning Manager

Others Present:

6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
   1. Call to Order

Mayor Barney, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM.

   2. Determine Quorum

A quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed.

   3. Pledge of Allegiance

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS




                              MAGNA COUNCIL MEMBERS
                    MAYOR ERIC BARNEY, MAYOR PRO TEM AUDREY PIERCE,
                COUNCIL MEMBER TRISH HULL, COUNCIL MEMBER STEVE PROKOPIS,
                             COUNCIL MEMBER MICK SUDBURY
Chris Aleene – Founder of the Utah Islanders here to begin conversation on old Cyprus High
School with students moving into the new school, proposed an ongoing football league at
Cyprus High School once it is vacated as the new high school will soon be used. He stated
that this would allow for students to continue to train and play football beyond high school
bringing tax revenue for football camps. He also mentioned entrepreneurial courses being
offered for the youth in the area to help them advance in life as well outside of football. He
believes this would be a program Magna could be proud of and give the community and state
something that is greatly needed at this time.

Ti Kiny Komy - stated that his family has had businesses in the Magna City area thriving and
working with members of the community with disabilities and the elderly over the last decade.
He has run a camp here in Salt Lake City for the last 25 years with thousands of kids coming
because of the lessons they learn and enjoy in football. With the Utah Football Islanders
program they are hoping to create a platform for all walks of like to come and learn and grow,
creating a map with academics as a priority. He gave his support for the Utah Football
Islanders proposal being held at Cyprus High School. He stated in order to be sustainable they
need a training facility year round. He thanked the city of Magna for what they’ve done for his
family, allowing them to help thousands of people in the city and they want to continue that
partnership.

Alicia Cartier – LDS Church Stake Communication Director. She invited the public to their
Nativity Festival being held December 13-15. December 14th will be from 3-8pm, and Sunday
will be from 5:30pm with a musical devotional at 6:00pm with live entertainment throughout,
refreshments, a children’s room for kids to color and play with age appropriate nativities. They
would like this to be a community event and it will be held at the 3100 s 8400 w, the Magna
Stake Center.

Terry George didn’t sign up on the list, but inquired about the plan for the city in the next 20
years, as well as in the next 2 years. It’s great they are looking to bring growth to the city, but
there is an infrastructure problem right now with getting people in and out of town, which is a
major concern. When they close 9200 off they can’t get in and out of town, all of the traffic
keeps getting pushed further and further to the east.


   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS

       A. Unified Police Department

Lt. Shane Manwaring shared the recent statistics, highlighting that assaults are up with
previous discussions on juvenile fights and fight clubs; that has tapered off now with officers
coming in to hit that hard and stop the issue. Burglaries are down by half, damaged property
and larceny is down. They have identified that public order and public peace are high numbers,
but that has a lot to do with how dispatch is clearing their calls, so they are working on
correcting that for proper statistics in coordination with VECC. Under the direction of Chief
Craig they are going moving to more of a public-oriented policing program, dividing officers in
correspondence with the council districts, based on issues identified in each of those areas.



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
They will be reaching out to individual council members to discuss what they have discovered
as the problems in their area.

Chief Del Craig gave an update regarding towing in the city, noting there have been many
complaints to the City Manager regarding town in Little Valley, Oquirrh Hills, and Valley View
Apartments, which are the primary areas of focus at this time. UPD has towed a few cars, but
the majority of the tows have actually been on private property. All those complexes have
parking issues and he hopes those orchestrating the towing are doing it for the right reasons
and not in a predatory manner.

Council Member Hull noted that she visits those areas frequently and has seen the signs
warning those who park against the rules about towing, they are obvious and easy to
understand.

Chief Craig acknowledged that they do share enforcement with private property in parts of
Little Valley, and they will continue to take care of the public roads, while the other entities will
be responsible for the private roads.

Council Member Hull asked about Cordero Drive, noting that she believes there is only
currently one speed limit sign. As that is in her district she has had people call and complain
that it’s too fast. With the school opening and the seminary building across Cordero, there are
concerns about the safety in the area.

Chief Craig said they share her concerns and traffic officers have asked for an engineering
study on that road in that area, not just for speed issues, but for the volume of traffic.
Discussion ensued regarding speed limits on Cordero. He also noted the commonly known
issues with UDOT regarding crossing that road both now and when school opens.

Council Member Hull said she spoke with them a few weeks ago and UDOT is still committed
to having things ready before school starts, so she’s not too concerned about that piece. She
also mentioned she hasn’t seen any movement on 4100 S either.

       B. Financial Report

Dave Sanderson noted that his report is through October 31, 2024. They are still seeing strong
revenues on building permits, $409,000 for the first four months, which is really good. Interest
rates are still keeping up there so they are earning money off that as well. On the expenditure
side, in the General Fund, there is not much happening other than the basic monthly
occurrences that continue throughout the years without much change. For Communities that
Care, they have received the State Liquor Allotment with almost $25,000 in that fund. On the
expense side of things everything is moving along as normal. Regarding the cemetery, they
have had some revenue for the sale of lots at $4600 with grave openings at $950, along with
the common ordinary expenses related to those services. In January they will be starting the
Fiscal Year 2026 budget, the MSD wants the city to begin in January and complete it by
February to turn in by the end of February. Later in January he will provide a tentative budget
for the council to review, basically mimicking this year’s budget, and changes can be made at



                Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
that time. He also offered to do a workshop if desired by the council in between the tentative
and final budget as they’ve done in the past, but he feels the council is familiar with the
process and probably doesn’t need that at this time.

Mayor Barney indicated that he had a timeline of the process to share with the council during
his council report.

Mr. Sanderson stated the MSD had already sent him a tentative budget to work with and he
plans to begin that work with the council during the January council meetings.

Mayor Barney asked for more information regarding the “other revenue” section of the
Pleasant Green Cemetery budget.

Mr. Sanderson responded that he would look into those details and get back to the Mayor.

       C. Pleasant Green Cemetery

David Brickey reported on Sharon’s behalf, noting that since the last time she reported to the
council she has sold two non-resident plots. She also agreed to meet with the families to
review their wills/trusts so they are comfortable with the locations so when the time comes to
bury those individuals identified in the trust that can be done smoothly.

       D. Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) Potential Tax Increase

Tony Hill, CFO, Rachel Anderson, District Administrator and Legal Counsel, Wade Russell with
Operations

Rachel Anderson noted she was here a few weeks ago to give the presentation for the Salt
Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area tax increase, and this is similar. The big difference
is that, through a weird nuance of the law, the fire service does not require a vote of the
participating cities, just a reporting requirement, which is the reason for her presentation today.
Ms. Anderson continued by reviewing the presentation included in the meeting packet
materials published online prior to the meeting which included a brief history of the United Fire
Service Area, reasons for the proposed increase and the details of the tax increase.

Chief Wade Russell and Tony Hill continued reviewing the prepared presentation, detailing the
rising costs associated with fire services including equipment costs, fuel and medical supplied.

Mayor Barney asked if these costs have increased due to an increase in the amount of
supplies needed or the actual cost of the materials.

Chief Russell responded that, while they have had to increase the amount of supplies being
purchased due to growth, the rising costs are mostly due to the inflation of single item costs.
He shared that the lifespan for turnout sets (or any personal protective equipment) is regulated
by the NFPA, the standard for firefighting ensembles, and it is a 10 year lifecycle. However,
that 10 years is assuming that everything stays perfect without thermal or chemical injuries,



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
and they do try to refurbish equipment as much as possible. He noted their goal is to recruit
and retain the best employees, which explains the rise in costs of personal wages and benefits
over the last six years. He also noted that over the past six years there have been some huge
increases in costs associated with the fleet, and he showed the associated costs in the
prepared presentation, noting that for perspective they are currently maintaining about $90
million worth of fleet and capital assets. Their capital plan is very robust and detailed, and he
shared what is involved in that. He discussed seismic upgrades to all their stations and noted
that in 2016 they bonded for six brand new stations which included rebuilding three current
stations that had outlived their lifecycle, and three were to increase service in certain areas
within the organization. In 2021 they secured a second bond to build three additional stations,
and one additional station in Eagle Mountain; the bond was required to make those stations
seismically safe and to accommodate for future growth, especially out in Eagle Mountain. He
then detailed the costs of a station built with the 2016 bond with the costs of the current Eagle
Mountain station, noting that there was a 91% increase on construction costs alone. The
current proposed tax increase is meant to address the continued growth and subsequent call
volumes being seen, and he shared the statistics. He talked about their process when
addressing the potential need for additional stations, including call volume and response time.
The presentation included the numbers for each of their communities served, noting Kearns
had the highest population being served by one station, meaning that in any given hear the
station in Kearns is unable to respond to 20% of their calls for service, requiring other agencies
to come in for assistance. To help with this they are adding additional equipment such as an
apparatus at Station 107. They are aiming for a seven minutes response time from dispatch to
arrival on the scene, and they do really well organization wide with hitting that time mark.
However, he noted that in Eagle Mountain they are seeing average times of 10 minutes due to
the large size of the city at 50 square miles. He discussed the changes being made there as
they quickly change from a rural area to more urban and suburban living. He discussed how
adding their new station and truck there will not completely fix the problem, but it will drastically
help with those response times.

Tony Hill took continued the presentation, discussing the costs for Phase 2 of their increase
which includes additional staffing in Kearns and Eagle Mountain as a cost of $6.3 million. He
reviewed the previous increases and the details behind their costs back to 2008 as shown in
the presentation. He discussed the fund balance, noting that they did not have a minimum fund
balance policy at the beginning. That was created by the board at a later time with the policy
level being 15% of the total revenue, and he shared a slide detailing where things would need
to be now to meet that fund balance policy requirement. He discussed property tax rates for
the service area back to 2008, shown in the presentation, and the revenues generated from
levies. He also reminded everyone that property taxes are the only real revenue source for
their services with a less than 10% revenue from impact fees. He shared details of the public
hearing on December 10, 2024 at 6:00pm at the UFA headquarters.

   6. PUBLIC HEARING
      A. Public Hearing for a Petition to Vacate Dora Street

Paul Ashton stated that this was first presented to the council in June of 2024. He reviewed the
requirements for a petition for vacation to be granted, including requirements for sewer service



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
to future development. He noted that the water district serving this area refused issuing a
formal letter assuring the service until the city made the decision whether to vacate the street,
which held things up for a while. After that delay, Mr. Ashton has recommended moving
forward with the public hearing, which was noticed for tonight, to receive input from those
affected by the vacations decision. The decision on vacation is not scheduled currently.

Council Member Sudbury moved to open the public hearing for the petition to vacate Dora
Street. Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Miguel Munabar – He has been here a few times and noted that they have been trying to get
the letter from Magna Water but they will not provide the letter because he doesn’t own the
property. In conversation with Trevor, an engineer with Magna Water, Miguel sent his proposal
to which they received the response that “it would work,” but even though they have the plans
ready, Magna Water would not sign the letter, despite Miguel paying $20,000 to have the plan
created. The three items mentioned by the council were that he needed the letter from Magna
Water, which he is unable to get until he gets the option to buy the land and invest in the civil
engineering plan. The second item was that the city receives appropriate compensation, and
his appraisal would cost $3000 and take three weeks according to his contacts, which is yet
another investment on top of everything else that he has done to keep the piece of property
clean and free of debris and garbage from the neighbors. Detective Holt has confirmed that
area is a focus of theirs in regards to criminal activity, and neighbors in the area not many of
the high school kids in the area use the area. He referenced the tax costs on his lot to estimate
the cost of the street area, and sent that proposal to the city for $100,000. He can get an
official appraisal, but he needs some guarantee. In regards to the dirt form, he has tried to
contact the neighbors and invite them here to hear about the proposal and has given them an
idea of what he is trying to build there. His proposal is to at least get an optional sale, or a sale
“subject to” the city’s requirements, including the sewer plan approval from Magna Water he
can at least move forward towards closing this sale.

Roy Christensen - was a little concerned about what vacating means, and asked if that was
just doing away with the street – to which the mayor confirmed that is correct. He asked to
confirm that the street runs all the way down the property along the property, about 280 feet in
length. He believes there is a public safety issue here with fire. If there were to be a fire, there
is no way to get a firetruck down into that area, and they have had a few fires. If they had a
major fire, like on Robin Street, and it’s so narrow there, how could you get fire equipment in
there and be able to get back out. He lives right on the other side of the property there,
adjacent to the street, and weeds have been a real problem throughout the time that property
has been there. It seems like he’s nervous every year about having a major fire, but now it
looks like it’s even worse because they can’t even get in there because it has all this dirt put in
there. I thought it was good dirt, but it has garbage in it, and now it’s a real mess. Then what
happens if this street just disappears, then he knows the interested owner doesn’t want people
on his property, so all he’d have to do is put a fence all the way across Robin Street with it all
sealed in and nobody could get in there – not the fire department, no one. We need that street
access for people that come from the apartments to get to the school. They wouldn’t have to
use that, but he thinks they are forming a big bottleneck there if they were to have a major fire
along that street there.



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
Mayor Barney asked for a motion to close the public hearing, and Mr. Manubar asked from the
audience if he could say something at this point in the meeting. Mayor Barney indicated that he
had already opened the hearing up and those interested in speaking have already had their
three minutes to speak.

Council Member Sudbury moved to close the public hearing. Council Member Hull
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   7. COUNCIL BUSINESS
      A. Consider Resolution 2024-11-04 Approving a 2025 Tax Rate in Excess of the
         Certified Tax Rate by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
         (SLVLESA)

Council Member Prokopis believes this should have been brought up a few weeks ago, noting
he believes the county council already voted today with 100% of the entities voting in favor of
this tax increase. They also voted last year to do this same thing, increasing to the cap of the
district. The county then did a reevaluation of property values, which revealed such a large
increases in values that they were below the cap. SLVLESA believes that in the long term they
will need to go to the legislature to raise that cap, allowing for some solvency in this special
service district, and to do that they believe they need to be at the cap for the legislature to
entertain those conversations. He has been in all the meetings, he feels they have tightened
where possible. There will be new asks, like with the UFA and costs drastically rising, including
the separation from the Sheriff.

Paul Ashton added that the everyone recognizes the Metro Townships were transformed into
cities, and that if SLVLESA couldn’t find movement of the cap the cities themselves would
have to impose their own property tax. Ultimately, it’s the question of who pays and that falls
on the residents.

David Brickey interjected that Copperton has not voted, that is scheduled for December 18;
Emigration Canyon has already voted yes; Kearns has voted yes; White City has voted yes;
the unincorporated vote has not yet taken place, and SLVLESA is scheduled to vote on
December 19. Magna does have one last meeting this year and he asked if the council
decides not to take action tonight, they put it back on the agenda for December 10.

Council Member Prokopis stated the county council voted on this today, with the public hearing
still being scheduled on December 19. If the county council didn’t have 100% support from all
entities, that triggers a 2/3 vote on the county council. With Magna and Copperton having not
voted, they invoked the 2/3 majority rule of the county council and he believes that passed with
the county council being told that four of the six who had their vote had passed it.

Council Member Hull moved to approve Resolution 2024-11-04, Approving a 2025 Tax
Rate in Excess of the Certified Tax Rate by SLVLESA. Council Member Sudbury
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.




               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
Council Member Sudbury noted that in the future this needs to be addressed sooner to allow
for direct participation in the larger vote.

       B. Consider CUP2024-001185 Delay Agreement for Right-of-Way Improvements: 2100
          S.

Justin Smith reviewed the proposed site from the prepared presentation included in the
meeting packet. There will be an access on the east side that is highlighted in blue, with a west
side access that is not highlighted but will be done through an easement. He shared the
proposed development plan showing the proposed north and south accesses, which are
proposed to be asphalt. This property is zoned M-2, and with the easement and access within
the property lines the two combined are about 126 feet of street frontage. Public Works
provided a letter of recommendation for the delay request, along with the Magna Planning
Commission recommending approval of the request on October 3. The delay agreement also
requires the mayor’s approval, and the agreement would be for 10 years. If the city were to put
in the right-of-way improvements within 10 years, the developer or applicant would be the ones
responsible for payment. Of that 126 feet, roughly 56 feet of that will be paved as access.
Mayor Barney asked if this requires a vote from the council, or just the mayor’s signature.
Mr. Smith indicated the code only indicates the mayor’s approval, however Mayor Barney
responded he would want the blessing of the council before agreeing to anything.
Council Member Prokopis asked to review the presentation, noting this is in his district. He
referred to the curb, gutter and sidewalk coming from the west and noted that it goes all the
way to the corner. If it were a sidewalk to nowhere he would agree with the delay agreement,
but there is curb, gutter and sidewalk to that corner from the property to the west. That side
could tie in at this time to existing sidewalk, but he understands delaying the other sections
that have no valid connections at this time.
Mayor Barney asked if this is an all or nothing agreement, or if the areas could be separated in
terms of required timing.
Council Member Prokopis noted it’s only about 75 feet of curb, gutter and sidewalk between
the two entrances – which isn’t a ton of space.
Council Member Hull agreed with the idea of connecting what’s already there.
Council Member Prokopis noted that his frustration is with the fact that this is already built out.
He also asked if there are any current delay agreements out there for adjacent properties that
could be called out to attach to this property and finish the waiting space.
The council then had a brief discussion about the storm water retention in the area.
Mr. Smith noted there could be a current sidewalk in the area to the west under construction
based on his maps, but it was hard to tell at this time. The council then tried to look at Google
Maps to get a better idea of what’s in the area and what’s being planned. Mayor Barney
believes this was forced with Whittaker Construction in the past, but was not 100% sure.



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
The council finally decided to table this decision to a future council meeting, date
undetermined. Brian Tucker offered to have staff do some research on surrounding plans and
visit the physical site to take pictures.
Council Member Sudbury moved to table a decision on CUP2024-001185, Delay
Agreement for Right-of-Way Improvements: 2100 S. to a future council meeting, date
undetermined. Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.
Brian Tucker suggested that the council request a drone flight of the area to get a better view
of what’s going on as a whole.
      C. Consider Ordinance 2024-O-16 Amending Section 16.02.340 Glass Requirements
         in Overpressure Areas (OAM2024-001294 – Applicant: Magna Staff)

Planning Manager Brian Tucker shared his prepared presentation that was included in the
published meeting packet. He stated that there was a property owner in Magna attempting to
build a home in the overpressure zone, in the least impactful of the overpressure zones
labeled as the 0.2 area. The ordinance doesn’t allow windowpanes more than 15 sq. ft., and
he wants to do bigger windows and sliding glass doors. He can do that under the current
ordinance, but the requirement is that no single windowpane can exceed the 15 sq. ft. The
Council adopted the ordinance in 2021, as a joint effort between planning staff, county
engineering, legal counsel and Northup Grumman. Chapters were consolidated, and added
safety items specific to Magna that Northrup Grumman believed the language lacked. A memo
to MSD staff was included in the meeting packet. The owner has reached out to his council
representative and city manager, asking to potentially adopt a West Valley version of the
ordinance regarding the glass panes. Magna adopted the county’s code on the overpressure
zone, and in 2021 the ordinance was amended. The only thing related to glass that was
amended had to do with a requirement for tempered or laminated glass. West Valley’s code
allows for larger openings, but the larger the opening the thicker and more robust the glass is
required to be. Mr. Tucker reached out to West Valley, and was sent the 1983 ordinance that
adopted West Valley’s standards. There are no additional scientific studies related to this, just
the ordinance originally adopting the code; the ordinance has not been amended since 1983 in
West Valley. Magna’s 1987 version is newer than West Valley’s from 1983 that has not been
updated, and Magna actually revisited this code in 2021. There has been no response from
Northrup Grumman, the city was hoping for some scientific studies or other data explaining the
reasons for the types of glass and sizes. He believe West Valley also required the tempered or
laminated glass, and repeated that in their code the larger the space the more robust the glass
has to be.

Council Member Prokopis asked to clarify that Magna added the tempered/laminated glass
requirement more recently, but did not address the size of the window at that time.

Mr. Tucker responded that he was correct. West Valley’s code is very long and difficult to
summarize, but once you get to a large enough opening, tempered or laminated glass is
required. He did not remember the exact size that triggered that requirement.




               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
Council Member Hull noted that she was involved during this process with Northrop, and that it
was a long process. The city didn’t want to do anything at the time that Northrup did not
support and agree to. She believes they discussed changing the sizes, but Northrup insisted
that the size mattered; the bigger the size the higher risk of damage or injury if something
exploded in the area. She doesn’t believe that West Valley ever had discussions with local
experts at the time, and she is confident that they did look at the sizes during those
discussions.

Council Member Prokopis noted that Northrup has adjusted their zones since the codes were
initially written, and believes that Magna has adjusted accordingly.

Mr. Tucker agreed with Council Member Prokopis’ statement and added that he didn’t believe
West Valley had done that over the years.

Council Member Hull stated that Northrup has also had additional buildings added, closer to
the city, and neither party has approached each other with those changes. She disclosed that
her husband works for Northrup and shared that he is appalled at how close Little Valley and
the High School are to those buildings.

Council Member Prokopis added that West Valley has also built newer higher end homes up
closer to the facilities as well.

Mayor Barney has a hard time considering an ordinance that impacts safety, without having
solid scientific evidence or justification to support the change. It sounds like this was
adequately vetted by Magna a few years ago, which makes him nervous changing the code to
anything less restrictive, without strong evidence or justification from engineers and those
involved.

Council Member Hull added that none of the research or evidence was taken into
consideration when West Valley created their ordinance either, so copying them doesn’t seem
like a good path.

Council Member Prokopis noted that if the owners are willing to upgrade the quality of glass,
the size allowed ought to be larger. However, it sounds like the current code doesn’t even
allow for that.

Mr. Tucker responded that no, the current code does not allow for that. For a single pane they
can’t exceed the 15 sq. ft., but they can have multiple panes in the same opening to get
around that rule.

Council Member Prokopis asked if the applicant has had the concept of multiple panes to
make the window space larger has been explained to him.

Mr. Tucker said they have explained that to the building staff, and he assumes that has been
passed on to the applicant, but he is not completely sure.




              Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
Council Member Prokopis shared his belief that if someone is willing to upgrade their glass to
the required thickness, they should be allowed the larger opening. Council Member Sudbury
agreed with that comment.

Mayor Barney agrees with that in theory as well, but he would like to see the evidence or proof
showing that is an acceptable option.

Council Member Hull noted the city would be on the hook if something happened in that area
and that family in that home was killed because their glass didn’t protect them, especially if the
ordinance is changed to reflect an ordinance that hasn’t been reviewed since the 1980s.

The council discussed the expectations for all southern facing windows in the area, and the
new Mahogany Ridge development. Mayor Barney confirmed that all properties along 4100
South have smaller windows along that side. Council Member Hull shared that she lives in one
of those overpressure zones, and the houses in her area only face east and west, none face
south.

Mr. Tucker said he lives in an overpressure zone as well, and his home faces south, but he
does have smaller windows on that side and where there are larger windows there are smaller
single panes. He referenced a rezone he did with Northrup a few years ago with the county,
including a product associated with their overpressure and from the three specific spots.
However, with the new work along the mountainside, they are doing a different kind of rocket
there that is not associated with the overpressure, which is why there are times they can be
close and not worry about it, but in other areas there are still concerns. Staff’s recommendation
was not to change anything until and unless they are given something else to go off of. One
concern of the planning commission was someone wanting to change the whole frame and
window would have to do all laminated or tempered glass. Noting that even if the opening
wasn’t changed and even if more efficient glass was used, that glass would have to be
upgraded to tempered or laminated; they have asked staff to look into that requirement so he
asked the council for guidance on potentially making changes to requirements for those
replacing current windows rather than adding new windows.

There was a discussion on what window work required permits, and the requirements for that
kind of work. The council was asked if they ultimately wanted to leave the code as is, or if they
wanted to direct staff to get more information.

Mr. Tucker clarified the two issues before the council with the first being the decision whether
or not the council wanted to adjust Magna code to reflect West Valley’s overpressure zone
requirements. On the other hand, currently you can replace the glass in a window without a
permit and with whatever material you choose. However, if you replace the frame, you are
required to have a permit and the replacement must be up to current code.

Council Member Prokopis shared that he doesn’t believe the applicant understands that
multiple smaller panes could be used to create a larger window area, and suggested making
that clear to the applicant and seeing what he says. If the applicant is not happy with that
option, then the council should wait to hear back from Northrup before taking things to the next



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
step.

Council Member Prokopis said the applicant got tired of waiting around so he went and bought
his windows, replacing them as he desired. He cited poor communication with the MSD, but
did pay the extra money for the upgraded window materials. He also noted that not all of the
applicant’s home was in the overpressure zone, and he didn’t feel he needed to use the same
materials for the windows not in the overpressure zone.

Council Member Hull shared that there have been explosions out there, and within her first 5
years of moving into her home in 1980 something happened up there. They did have cracked
windows, and the company had to come in to fix all the windows damaged in the area. She
suggested instructing staff to get more information but allowing them to take their time since
the urgency is now gone.

Mr. Tucker noted the planning commission did ask the staff to look at amending the ordinance,
allowing for the replacement of one type of frame with another and using whatever materials
were used for the glass originally, rather than having to upgrade materials.

Mayor Barney noted that part of this discussion has not been discussed in a workshop and
should probably be held until another time.

Mr. Ashton noted that the council could motion to deny the amending of the ordinance to
match West Valley, but instruct staff to look at other issues raised by the planning commission.

The council discussed options and the concept that things have changed since originally
adopting ordinances, noting that West Valley and Magna’s ordinances should match.

Council Member Hull moved to deny Ordinance 2024-O-16, Amending Section 16.02.340
Glass Requirements in Overpressure Areas. Council Member Prokopis seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

        D. Consider Ordinance 2024-O-17 Amending the Magna Zoning Ordinance, Title 19 of
           the Magna Municipal Code, related to residential off-street parking regulations
           (OAM2024-001231 – Applicant: Magna Staff)

Brian Tucker stated there have been complaints about the parking in Magna. He noted that
due to the housing market and families living together, Magna has had a tough time enforcing
parking. This amendment is intended to create on-premise parking that ensures front yard
continue to promote an attractive streetscape, while allowing parking in other spots on the
property. Working with the Magna precinct of code enforcement they created a code that
allows for parking on a gravel pad between the driveway and nearest lot line. Driveways are
currently required to be at least five feet away from a property line, but this would allow
someone to gravel that area and park on it as an exception.

Council Member Sudbury has no problem with the gravel, but he does want a barrier under
that gravel to abate weeds, which makes it a code enforcement violation.



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
Mr. Tucker believes the ordinance requires the area to be kept weed free, and would also
allow gravel parking on the side of your yard when it’s located behind a view obscuring fence
or gate. This would allow for up to 60% of a front yard to be used for parking, if the whole lot
including buildings, rooftops, sheds, asphalt, concrete and patios doesn’t exceed 60% of the
lot area. There is also a caveat for going over 50%, which requires a stormwater analysis. He
shared terms that were not previously defined adequately or at all, noting the Planning
Commission has recommended approval of this Ordinance.

Mayor Barney asked if the effects of allowing parking in non-standard areas with gravel, rather
than concrete, have been looked into and why the decision to allow 60%.

Mr. Tucker noted that currently you can have 50% of specific areas paved separately, however
this pulls it together and notes that no more than 60% of your entire lot can be paved or
hardscaped. He also pointed out that they require compacted gravel rather than loose gravel,
and oil or other car liquids do take longer to permeate that type of surface. He also noted this
is the first time the council has seen this item.

The council had a discussion on the current workshop/business format and options for passing
items without waiting additional time. The council agreed to discuss this more at their retreat
early 2025. The intention is to have this heard today with a decision at the next council
meeting.

Council Member Sudbury moved to delay a decision on Ordinance 2024-O-17 to the
December 10, 2024 Council Meeting. Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote
was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

        E.     Consider Ordinance 2024-O-18 Amending Titles 18 and 19 to replace Magna
Township with Magna or Magna City, as appropriate; clarifying when infrastructure and public
improvements must be installed by a developer subject to the limitations on exactions in Utah
Code; clarifying that Internal and Attached Dwelling Units may only be constructed on single
family lots with 6,000 square feet or greater; amending the definition of Commercial Vehicles
and clarifying the circumstances in which Commercial Vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2
zones; clarifying 1 acre minimum for new development in the A-1 zone; clarifying that a lot
must include 20,000 square feet to have "animal rights"; requiring an "all weather surface" in
Storage and Salvage Yards; requiring trees and landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the
street; and adding or clarifying definitions for "Off Premise Signs", "Animal Rights", "Alteration",
"Clustering", "Expansion", "Grading", Natural Open Space", "Net Developable Acreage",
"Retaining Wall", "Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream, Ephemeral", "Stream, Perennial", "Stream
Corridor", "Substantial economic hardship", "Undevelopable", and "Waiver" (OAM2024-001293
– Applicant: Magna Staff)

Brian Tucker reviewed background information from the meeting packet, noting that this would
change all references to Magna Township in Titles 18 and 19 to either Magna or Magna City
as appropriate, they would require an all weather surface in storage and salvage yards areas
that are not asphalt or cement, requires trees and landscape to be trimmed to 14.5 feet above
the street as opposed to the current 13.5 feet requirement, and added back amended



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
requirements for infrastructure responsibilities.

The council discussed instances where curb and gutter would be required, and they are still
working on more details for that.

Mr. Tucker continued noting that the change would require internal and attached ADUs to be in
R-1.6 or larger zone with lot size requirements. It also discusses commercial vehicles in the R-
1 and R-2 zones with clarifications on definitions and categories of commercial vehicles, pulled
from the Department of Transportation. In a workshop in 2022 or 2023 there were discussions
and changes to the code that allowed a 10,000 square foot lots in an A-1 zone. Over time, it
was discovered that wasn’t as clear and concise as it should have been, and in those cases
the tie goes to the applicant, so they wanted to lock down requiring one acre minimum lots in
the A-1 zone. He continued reviewing the changes for animal rights for food production, and
definition of additional terms.

Council Member Sudbury moved to delay a decision on Ordinance 2024-O-18 to the
December 10, 2024 Council Meeting. Council Member Prokopis seconded the motion;
vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   8. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES

David Brickey shared that all three properties the council previously authorized him to facilitate
the purchase of have been acquired, and he was able to meet with former Mayor Dan Peay to
have him sign over the Webster Center to be under Magna City’s name. There is now also an
agreement signed to put signage at Magna Copper Park as described and authorized by the
council, as well as at historic Pleasant Green Cemetery.
City Attorney had no updates at this time.
   9. COUNCIL REPORTS

Council Member Trish Hull did some research on city journals and that information will be sent
out by David Brickey for further discussion.

Council Member Mick Sudbury had nothing to report at this time.

Council Member Steve Prokopis noted UPD met last week with a resignation on the UPD
Board, the Mayor of Midvale, who was replaced by the representative from Emigration
Canyon. They will have their truth in taxation meeting on December 19.

Mayor Eric Barney discussed the MSD requesting budgets for the new schedule, and the
calendar provided. They have asked the city to provide proposed fiscal year 2026 budget to
the MSD by February 26, 2025. The goal is approval of the Capital and MSD Budgets by May
14, 2025. Occupancy at the Salt Lake County offices ends the end of January or beginning of
February, moving to the new facilities in Taylorsville. Updated on Capital Improvement
Projects, specifically Magna Main Street, noting the last install failed. He shared the results of



               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
that study, that at the base there was too much clay and fines and stilts, with not enough
gravel to provide sufficient structural support. That was made worse by water seeping into
pavement cracks and infiltrating the substrate with more fines. The root cause best guess was
poor construction with insufficient inspection of the original base and sub-base installation of
the road. The groundwater was also 5-7 feet deep or not observed at all at the 10 foot boring
depth, it is unlikely that drainage was the driving factor for the poor quality. There are two
storm drain crossing identified for replacement and those have been included in the project. He
reviewed the options for fixing the road with their pros and cons.

   10. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental
          health of an individual.
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205


   11. ADJOURN

Council Member Hull moved to adjourn the November 26, 2024 Magna City Council
Meeting. Council Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

Adjourned at 8:17pm

This is a true and correct copy of the November 26, 2024 City Council Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on July 8, 2025.

Attest:


                                                       Eric Barney, Magna City Mayor

Diana Baun, Magna City Recorder




               Magna City •8952 West Magna Main St. •Magna, UT 84044• 385-977-2275
                               MAGNA CITY
                               COUNCIL MEETING
                               APRIL 22, 2025 @ 6:00 PM
                               WEBSTER COMMUNITY CENTER
                               8952 West Magna Main Street
                               Magna, Utah 84044


                       MAGNA CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                                   April 22, 2025

Council Members Present:                                   Council Member(s) Excused:
Eric Barney, Mayor                                         Audrey Pierce
Steve Prokopis
Trish Hull
Mick Sudbury

Staff Present:
David Brickey, City Manager
Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel
Diana Baun, City Recorder
Daniel Torres, Economic Development Manager
Brian Tucker, Planning Manager
Justin Smith, Engineer
Dave Sanderson, Accountant


Others Present:
Lincoln Shurtz, Danny Trujillo, Caron Crowe, Sharon Nicholes


6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
  1.   Call to Order

Mayor Barney, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm. He excused Council Member
Pierce who was not present.

   2. Determine Quorum

A quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed.

   3. Pledge of Allegiance



                              MAGNA COUNCIL MEMBERS
                    MAYOR ERIC BARNEY, MAYOR PRO TEM AUDREY PIERCE,
                COUNCIL MEMBER TRISH HULL, COUNCIL MEMBER STEVE PROKOPIS,
                             COUNCIL MEMBER MICK SUDBURY
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS

Danny Trujillo addressed the council to express gratitude for their time and for responding to
previous emails regarding a neighborhood park located at 2905 South 9150 West. He
explained having played at this park during youth and described how the removal of
playground equipment in the past had made the park feel neglected and outdated, although
residents continued to use the space for various recreational activities. Mr. Trujillo detailed
efforts over the past six months to advocate for improvements, including contacting the city
manager of Magna and Salt Lake County officials to confirm the transfer of the park property
from the county to Magna City. He shared that the transfer had been completed but raised
concern upon learning that the park space might be considered for other, unspecified uses.
Expressing a desire for the space to remain a park for the benefit of local residents, he
requested that the council provide clarity on what other uses were being contemplated and
urged them to preserve the park for the community’s continued enjoyment and well-being.

Caron Crowe the CEO of Habitat for Humanity for the greater Salt Lake area, addressed the
council to express appreciation for the ongoing opportunity to request a rezone for their
property. She conveyed gratitude on behalf of the entire staff for the continued partnership with
Magna City, highlighting their collaboration on both critical home repair projects and new home
construction. She Crowe concluded by thanking the council for their consideration and stated a
willingness to answer any questions that might arise.

   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
      A. Unified Police Department

Chief Del Craig addressed the council and noted it was good to be back after a leave of
absence. Chief Craig explained having remained engaged during the leave by attending
budget meetings and participating in the employee award selection process to stay informed
about departmental matters. He reported on collaborative efforts with school officials to
establish safe walking routes in light of changing school boundaries and the upcoming opening
of Brockbank as a junior high school. It was emphasized that work was ongoing with city
officials, the police department, and the school district to finalize these routes. Chief Craig
addressed concerns raised at a previous meeting regarding the potential loss of crossing
guards, clarifying that there would be no reduction in crossing guards and that staffing levels
would remain stable. He also acknowledged that crime statistics had been presented by
Lieutenant Manwaring at the last council meeting and concluded by offering to answer any
further questions before yielding the floor.

       B. Pleasant Green Cemetery
Sharon Nicholes, representing Pleasant Green Cemetery, reported to the council that the cemetery had
recently conducted two burials, sold three plots, installed fourteen headstones, and had five additional
burials scheduled in the coming ten days, noting that operations remained very busy. She then raised a
concern about signage installed by Magna in Motion, mentioning that one sign appeared to be



    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
significantly bent—likely due to a vehicle incident during a snowstorm—and suggested it needed repair
or replacement. Council Member Trish Hull confirmed that the sign had been part of a Healthy Utah
Grant project and requested that Public Works inspect and address the damaged signs, with staff
acknowledging the directive.
Ms. Nicholes further described an ongoing issue with trespassing on the northeast side of the cemetery
property, where individuals—mostly youths—had been accessing adjacent Kennecott-owned land to
ride motorbikes, build fires, and engage in other activities, including shooting near the cemetery and
gathering for events such as prom photos. She emphasized the serious fire risk posed by these
activities, particularly in dry conditions. Council Member Mick Sudbury, Mayor Eric Barney, and other
council members discussed the challenges of enforcing trespassing restrictions on the private property,
noting that the area falls under the jurisdiction of the county sheriff rather than the city or Unified Police
Department. It was clarified that Kennecott owns the property and has private security, but the lack of
fencing or effective barriers made it easy for trespassers to gain access despite posted no trespassing
signs. Council members acknowledged the risk of damage to city assets like the cemetery should a fire
occur and agreed that cooperation among the city, the sheriff’s office, Kennecott, and private security
would be needed to better address the issue. Ms. Nicholes agreed to work with David Brickey to
coordinate further discussions with Kennecott about additional measures to prevent unauthorized
access and mitigate fire hazards.

       C. Magna 4th of July – None


   6. CONSENT AGENDA
      A. Approve City Council Minutes – None
      B. B. Approve Communities That Care (CTC) and Magna City Memorandum of
         Understanding (MOU)

Council Member Sudbury moved to approve the Communities that Care and Magna City
Memorandum of Understanding as published and presented. Council Member Hull
seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council Member Pierce
absent from the vote.

Council Member Sudbury moved to suspend the agenda and go back to the Public
Comment Section to allow a late arrival the opportunity to speak. Council Member hull
seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council Member Pierce
absent from the vote.

Steve Anderson, the new owner of Peel Funeral Home, addressed the council to introduce
himself and express his appreciation for the warm welcome he had received from the Magna
community. He explained that Council Member Trish Hull had suggested he attend the
meeting and apologized for arriving late, not realizing how quickly the public comment portion
would proceed. He stated his intention to be actively involved in the community and offered to
help wherever possible, emphasizing that he and his family planned to remain in Magna for the
long term. Mr. Anderson also commended Sharon Nicholes for her work with the cemetery,



    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
describing her as excellent to work with. He concluded by thanking the council for their time
and invited anyone with questions or feedback to speak with him afterward.

   7. PRESENTATION ITEMS
      A. Legislative Report

Lincoln Shurtz addressed the council to provide an update on legislative outcomes and funding
opportunities relevant to Magna City following the conclusion of the 2025 legislative session.
He reported that House Bill 502 had successfully passed both the legislature and the
governor’s desk, securing $1.4 million in funding to be administered by the Department of
Transportation for road improvement projects on 80th West at 3500 South. He noted that this
funding was in addition to $1.8 million previously secured for improvements at 80th West and
4100 South. Lincoln Shurtz emphasized that these funds were on a reimbursement basis,
requiring the city to begin work and then submit invoices to the Department of Transportation
for reimbursement. He confirmed that he and David Brickey had already met with UDOT to
ensure the necessary processes were in place for smooth administration of the funds. Mr.
Shurtz also highlighted additional funding opportunities available to Magna. He described an
annual state fund of approximately $15–20 million to support outdoor recreation infrastructure,
encouraging the city to identify potential parks or recreation projects that could benefit from this
funding. He explained that applications for the 2025 grant cycle would open later this year, with
awards finalized by April 2026. Mr. Shurtz also outlined a new program created under House
Bill 502 that allocates $70 million statewide for infrastructure supporting affordable housing
projects. He detailed that this funding would be administered prospectively by the Governor’s
Office of Economic Opportunity and could be used to cover costs for infrastructure such as
water, sewer, or roads supporting housing for residents earning between 80% and 120% of the
area median income. He clarified that for this funding, projects must demonstrate they will
provide at least 50 units of affordable housing to qualify, and he confirmed that developments
already underway but not yet completed could still be eligible. He informed the council about
the legislative interim committee meetings beginning in May, explaining that these sessions
would shape the legislative agenda for the 2026 session. He noted that topics of likely interest
to Magna included tax increment financing for economic development, infrastructure
investment impacts on housing affordability, water resources, and conservation. He stated he
was preparing a full report summarizing expectations for the upcoming session and offered to
meet with city staff and the council to develop a “wish list” for potential legislative requests.

In closing, Mr. Shurtz invited questions from the council and clarified that while the road project
funds were reimbursement-based, the new affordable housing infrastructure funding would be
distributed prospectively once an application was approved, with potential clawback only if the
required housing metrics were not met. Mayor Eric Barney and Council Member Trish Hull
expressed appreciation for the legislative support and asked follow-up questions about
reimbursement processes and eligibility for projects already in progress. Mr. Shurtz confirmed
that ongoing affordable housing projects could qualify for the new funding and offered to
facilitate discussions with the Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity. In response to a
question about a potential county split, Lincoln Shurtz stated that there had been minimal
progress and that financial impact analyses were still pending.



    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
      B. Discussion Regarding Amending Magna City Code, Specifically Title 8, Animals

Brian Tucker, Planning Manager, addressed the council to provide an update and seek
guidance regarding proposed changes to the city’s animal ordinances. He explained that the
current discussion focused on reconciling inconsistencies between Title 8, which covers animal
permitting and care requirements, and Title 19, which addresses land use and zoning,
including limits on the number of animals allowed. He noted that Magna’s Title 8 had been
adopted from the county’s version in 2017, but the county had since substantially revised its
code in 2021, creating some discrepancies. He detailed that his research showed the county’s
current practice defers specific limits on animals like chickens and ducks to the zoning
ordinance in Title 19, rather than duplicating those limits in the animal care ordinance. He
noted that while the county’s updated code does not clearly define limits for household pets
under Title 8, it does so under Title 19 by limiting household pets to two, with the option of
obtaining a kennel permit for three to five dogs if zoning requirements are met. Mr. Tucker
suggested this same approach would be clearer for Magna, since Title 19 already includes
land use-based animal limits. He recommended that Magna remove references to animal
quantity limits from Title 8 and maintain those provisions solely in Title 19 to avoid confusion
for residents and enforcement personnel.

Council members discussed the matter, confirming that Title 19 currently limits household pets
to two, with an option to apply for a kennel or cattery permit to keep up to five animals,
depending on zoning.

Council Member Trish Hull raised questions about enforcement and whether animal control
officers would be aware of the distinction.

Mr. Tucker acknowledged the need for better communication but noted that the county’s
ordinance had the same structural arrangement. Council members agreed that having a single,
clear source for animal limits in Title 19 was preferable, while Title 8 should focus on animal
care, cruelty prevention, and enforcement processes.

There was general consensus, supported by Mayor Eric Barney and David Brickey, that the
proposed change would streamline the ordinances. Brian Tucker stated that he would prepare
a revised draft of Title 8 removing any language regarding limits on animal numbers while
leaving Title 19 unchanged. He explained that since this adjustment did not require planning
commission review, it would be brought back to the council for final consideration at an
upcoming meeting.

      C. Discussion Regarding a Third Amendment to the Magna United Communities That
         Care (CTC) Substance Abuse Block Grant Agreement with Salt Lake County Health
         Department

David Brickey presented the third amendment to the Magna United Communities That Care
(CTC) substance abuse block grant agreement with the Salt Lake County Health Department.
He explained that the agreement involved a $10,000 contribution from Magna City, which was


    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
covered by local alcohol tax revenue as required by state law. In return, the Health Department
would contribute $100,000 toward the program. He clarified that this amendment was part of
an ongoing five-year grant, which must be renewed annually.

Council Member Trish Hull noted that this was the fourth year the city had received the funding
and emphasized that the local contribution had consistently been funded through the beer tax,
which is specifically earmarked for prevention and cessation programs.

Mayor Eric Barney and council members confirmed that the arrangement aligned with state
code requirements.

Paul Ashton clarified the procedural details, explaining that although the agreement was over
$2,500 and therefore required council approval, the memorandum of understanding
designated Council Member Trish Hull, as chair of the CTC, to sign on behalf of the committee
while the mayor’s approval would be on record for compliance.

Council Member Sudbury moved to authorize the mayor signing the third amendment to
the Magna United Communities that Care Substance Abuse Block Grant Agreement with
Salt Lake County Health Department. Council Member Prokopis seconded the motion;
vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council Member Pierce absent from the vote.

   8. COUNCIL BUSINESS
      A. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Ordinance 2025-O-04 - Amending
         Magna City Code, Specifically Title 8, ALJ Process

Brian Tucker informed the council that he had prepared a revised, clean draft of the proposed
changes specific to the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) provisions, as requested by David
Brickey. He clarified that the updated draft contained only the adjustments needed to move
enforcement responsibilities for Title 8 matters—such as animal care and related violations—to
the ALJ system, along with some clarifying language to support that change.

Mayor Eric Barney confirmed that the purpose of this revision was to ensure that enforcement
of Title 8 issues would fall under the jurisdiction of the ALJ, streamlining the process.

Council Member Trish Hull sought clarification on whether this was separate from the
previously discussed revisions regarding animal limits.

Mayor Eric Barney explained that the animal limit discussion had been split off and would be
handled separately, noting that the council had deliberately bifurcated the ordinance updates
to keep the ALJ enforcement changes distinct from other Title 8 amendments.

Council Member Steve Prokopis confirmed the understanding and supported moving forward
with the clean draft focused solely on the ALJ provisions.




    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
Council Member Hull moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-04, Amending the Magna City
Code, Specifically Title 8, ALJ Process. Council Member Prokopis seconded the motion;
vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council Member Pierce absent from the vote.

       B. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Ordinance 2025-O-05 - Amending
          Magna City Code, Specifically Section 11.20, Stopping, Standing and Parking

Dan Torres addressed the council to bring forward an item that had come before them
previously but had not yet been formally codified into an ordinance. He explained that although
there were no comments or requested changes at its last presentation, an ordinance still
needed to be prepared by the city’s legal counsel to make the action official.

Paul Ashton, City Attorney, confirmed that the council could approve the matter now with the
understanding that an ordinance would be drafted to codify it.

Council Member Sudbury moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-05, Amending Magna
City Code, Specifically Section 11.20, Stopping, Standing and Parking with the note that
approval is given for the ordinance as prepared after this meeting by legal counsel.
Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with
Council Member Pierce absent from the vote.

       C. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Ordinance 2025-O-02, An Ordinance of
          the Magna City Council Amending the Zoning Map to Change the Zone of the
          Property Located at 7305 W 2100 S from A-20 (Agricultural) to M-2 (Manufacturing)

Justin Smith explained that the ordinance proposed amending the zoning map to change the
zoning designation of a 4.76-acre parcel located at 7305 West 2100 South from A-2
Agricultural to M-2 Manufacturing. Justin Smith described the area as an established industrial
corridor situated south of 2100 South and north of State Route 201, across from Salt Lake
City. He noted that much of the surrounding property was already zoned or recently rezoned to
M-2, making this proposed change consistent with neighboring land uses and the area’s
industrial character. He clarified that the parcel was currently undeveloped and that the
applicant had not yet provided a site plan but intended to lease the land for industrial purposes.
He confirmed that the property met all applicable lot standards for the M-2 zone and stated that
the Magna Planning Commission had recommended approval of the rezoning on March 20.

Council Member Steve Prokopis asked whether it would be possible to require site
improvements at the time of the rezone. Mr. Smith explained that such conditions would
typically be imposed later during the subdivision process or when a permitted or conditional
use application is submitted, not during the rezoning phase.

Council Member Sudbury moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-02, Amending the
Zoning Map for property located at 7305 W 2100 S as discussed. Council Member Hull
seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council Member Pierce
absent from the vote.


    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
       D. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Ordinance 2025-O-03, An Ordinance of
          the Magna City Council Amending the Zoning Map to Change the Zone of the
          Property located at 7563 W 2820 S from A-1/ZC (Agricultural) to R-1-8 (Residential)

Justin Smith presented a rezone application to the council, explaining that the property in
question was currently zoned A-1-ZC, which is an agricultural zone with a zoning condition that
restricts the development of dwelling groups and twin homes. He noted that the applicant had
previously submitted applications requesting other residential zones, including R-2-6.5 and R-
1-5, but was now seeking to rezone the property to R-1-8. He further explained that the R-1-8
zone would establish a minimum lot size of 8,000 square feet per parcel, with each lot required
to be at least 65 feet wide, and that the maximum residential density permitted would be
approximately four and a half units per acre. He added that this proposal aligned with the city’s
general plan, which calls for densities ranging from R-2-6.5 to R-1-10 in this area, making the
requested R-1-8 designation consistent with surrounding land uses and development patterns.
Mr. Smith also clarified that the restriction in the city’s code concerning frequent rezones would
not apply in this case because it pertains only to repeat requests for the exact same zone
classification. He confirmed that the Magna Planning Commission had reviewed the
application on March 20 and recommended its approval. In response to Mayor Eric Barney’s
question about the number of units that could be developed under the new zoning, Justin
Smith indicated that the applicant intended to build two units on the site under the proposed R-
1-8 zoning.

Council Member Sudbury moved to approve Ordinance 2025-O-03, Amending the
Zoning Map for property located at 7563 W 2820 S as discussed. Council Member Hull
seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council Member Pierce
absent from the vote.

Following the vote of the rezone application, Council Member Steve Prokopis asked for
clarification about the property’s address, noting that the listed address, 7563 West 2820
South, appeared to be an odd number, which would typically place it on the south side of 2820
South, while he believed the parcel in question — the Habitat for Humanity project site — was
actually on the north side of the street. He stated he wanted to ensure the council was
considering the correct parcel, referencing that he initially thought they were discussing a
different larger parcel nearby.

Mayor Eric Barney invited representatives from Habitat for Humanity to confirm the address.
Brian Tucker confirmed that, despite the numbering irregularity, the address currently listed for
the property was indeed 7563 West 2820 South. Mayor Eric Barney acknowledged the
clarification, and Council Member Prokopis agreed it was acceptable as long as everyone
understood which parcel was under consideration, noting that the listed number was probably
the closest usable address for the undeveloped site.

       E. Discussion and Potential Action Regarding Authorizing the Mayor to Sign a Contract
          with AJC Architects for the Magna Webster Center and Instructing Staff to Come




    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
          Back with a Budget Amount for the Webster Center Remodel as a Budget
          Amendment

David Brickey updated the council on progress with the Webster Center project, explaining that
the subcommittee and the design team had met to identify additional needs, including the
necessity of an assessment of the existing building since there were no original design prints
available. He stated that the assessment would cost an additional $10,000. David Brickey
requested that the council authorize the mayor to sign the contract with AJC Architects for the
base project amount of $650,000, along with the budget amendment to cover the assessment.
He outlined the project timeline, noting that an assessment of the building was scheduled with
the subcommittee for April 28. Initial design concepts would be shared with the subcommittee
on May 19, followed by a preferred design on June 2 and a final draft design on June 16. The
timeline was structured to allow the subcommittee to review each stage before council
meetings, providing opportunities for immediate feedback.

Council Member Steve Prokopis suggested approving the original $650,000 base amount plus
the $10,000 for the building assessment now, and then revisiting the total project cost once
design options were available, ensuring that the city could consider different cost tiers before
committing to any larger expenditure.

David Brickey agreed that this approach was reasonable.

Council Member Trish Hull added that the design team should provide clear options showing
what different budget levels — such as $650,000, $1 million, or $1.5 million — would achieve
for the project.

Mayor Eric Barney summarized the request and invited a motion to authorize the mayor’s
signature on the contract with AJC Architects for the Webster Center project, along with the
$10,000 budget adjustment to fund the assessment study.

Council Member Hull moved to authorize the Mayor to sign a contract with AJC
Architects for the Magna Webster Center as detailed in the discussion above. Council
Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council
Member pierce absent from the vote.

   9. CITY MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES

David Brickey provided the council with a comprehensive update on several related items
concerning the city’s property acquisitions, the ongoing environmental site assessments, and
plans for park improvements using ARPA funds and other resources. He explained that the
Phase One Environmental Site Assessment for the four parcels the city is in the process of
acquiring from the county and the County Redevelopment Agency (CRA) had moved forward.
He noted that the assessment, which runs over 420 pages, flagged new federal lead level
standards that now require further evaluation on all parcels, although no immediate threats had
been identified. Paul Ashton clarified that this was a federal regulatory requirement and did not


    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
necessarily indicate confirmed contamination. David Brickey confirmed that the transfer of
these parcels, including the small neighborhood park area discussed during public comment,
was expected to be finalized by June, pending remaining approvals from involved taxing
entities and the county council. He assured the council that no other intended use for the park
parcel had been raised by the current council or community beyond its continued use as a
park.

Turning to the Copper Park improvement discussion, David Brickey and Dan Torres outlined
several ideas for how to responsibly spend ARPA funds before the federal deadline, while also
addressing long-term park needs. Dan Torres shared cost estimates for new playground
structures, pickleball courts, skate park upgrades, and a potential pump track, emphasizing
that the city would need to move quickly to secure contracts before December to retain ARPA
eligibility. Council members discussed options such as converting an existing tennis court into
pickleball courts, replacing aging playground equipment at Copper Park, and developing a
more complete plan for the underutilized neighborhood park at 9150 West.

There was consensus that improvements for teenagers—such as a modern skate park or
pump track—were especially important to keep older youth engaged and protect newer
playgrounds for smaller children. Council members also emphasized the need to finish the dog
park area and address tree removal and replacement at Copper Park for safety and shade.
Mayor Eric Barney strongly supported incorporating an urban canopy plan to expand tree
cover, referencing successful models from Salt Lake City and highlighting the long-term
community benefits of shade and green space.

Dan Torres confirmed he would return with more detailed cost breakdowns, procurement
options, and potential grant opportunities, including for park planning, playground upgrades,
and tree planting. He noted the city’s new MSD grant writer could help pursue state recreation
grants for larger projects like the 9150 West park so that funding could be used strategically
rather than in a piecemeal fashion.

David Brickey closed by updating the council that the Main Street contract had been reviewed
by MSD engineers and sent on for final approval, with hopes of providing final dates and
details shortly.

The council expressed support for moving forward with detailed planning, additional site visits
to similar facilities, and securing grant applications while ensuring that all projects align with
deadlines for spending ARPA funds. Council members agreed that any improvements should
be done thoughtfully and to a high standard, avoiding patchwork approaches whenever
possible.

No City Attorney Updates at this time.
   10. COUNCIL UPDATES

Council Member Trish Hull provided an update highlighting the introduction of a new
specialized support truck for the fire department, which she described as an impressive



    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
resource she hadn’t realized existed. She explained that the truck’s primary function was to
support firefighters during extended incidents by providing lighting at fire scenes, refilling air
packs (SCBAs), supplying replacement protective suits to reduce carcinogen exposure, and
even preparing food on-site for crews working long hours. She emphasized the value of this
equipment in helping reduce the health risks firefighters face from cancer-causing
contaminants. She also noted that the fire department’s budget process was now underway,
with larger budget meetings to come. She added that 33 new firefighters would soon complete
training, graduating on May 14, after which those without EMT certification would attend EMT
school, while certified recruits would move to operational assignments. This staffing expansion
supports the opening of two new engine companies this year, one in Kearns and one in Eagle
Mountain.

Council Member Steve Prokopis provided a brief update for UPD, explaining that their meeting
had been rescheduled to Thursday of the current week, so there were no new updates beyond
his last report. He added that UPD was also in the middle of its budget planning process.

Council Member Mick Sudbury noted that the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling meeting
was scheduled for the coming Monday.

Mayor Eric Barney reported on the Municipal Services District (MSD) open house for its new
facility on Levoy Avenue in Taylorsville, highlighting that the building offered improved
workspaces, lighting, and room for future growth. He shared that the MSD’s tentative budget
was reviewed and tentatively approved, with the final public hearing and potential final
approval set for the following day. He clarified that while the overall budget showed about a 2%
increase compared to last year, the operational portion alone reflected an 8% increase due to
the removal of last year’s one-time expenses related to the new facility. He noted that bringing
engineering services in-house had already generated a net cost savings compared to the
previous arrangement with Salt Lake County. Mayor Barney reminded everyone that the MSD
is funded solely by sales tax revenue from participating municipalities, Class B and C road
funds, and related fee income.

Additionally, Council Member Sudbury reminded everyone about the upcoming Unified Fire
Authority pancake breakfast, which Council Member Prokopis confirmed would be held on May
17 at the new station on Main Street from 7:00 to 10:00 a.m. Council members encouraged the
community to attend, see the new fire station, meet firefighters, and help Magna have a strong
showing for what has become a friendly competition among cities for turnout. Council Member
Trish Hull added that the breakfast had been well-attended in past years, and children would
again have the chance to explore fire trucks during the event.

Council Member Sudbury moved to recess the Council Meeting and moved to a Closed
Session for the reasons highlighted below. Council Member Hull seconded the motion;
vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with Council Member Pierce absent from the vote.

   11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205



    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
      A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental
         health of an individual.
      B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
      C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
      D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
      E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

No need for Closed Session

   12. ADJOURN

Council Member Hull moved to adjourn the April 22, 2025 Magna City Council Meeting.
Council Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor with
Council Member Pierce absent from the vote.

The April 22, 2025 Magna City Council Meeting adjourned at 7:49 PM


This is a true and correct copy of the April 22, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes, which
were approved on July 8, 2025.


Attest:


                                                       Eric Barney, Magna City Mayor

Diana Baun, Magna City Recorder




   Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
                                MAGNA CITY
                                COUNCIL MEETING
                                JUNE 24, 2025 @ 6:00 PM
                                WEBSTER COMMUNITY CENTER
                                8952 West Magna Main Street
                                Magna, Utah 84044


                        MAGNA CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES
                             NO AUDIO 6-24-2025 MEETING
                         **DRAFT MINUTES – NOT APPROVED**

Council Members Present:                                     Council Member(s) Excused:
Eric Barney, Mayor
Audrey Pierce
Trish Hull
Steve Prokopis
Mick Sudbury

Staff Present:
David Brickey, City Manager
Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel
Daniel Torres, Economic Development Manager

Others Present:


6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
  1.   Call to Order

Mayor Barney, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 pm.

   2. Determine Quorum

A quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed.

   3. Pledge of Allegiance

The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS

Gregg Boyer – Discussed streetlight issues in Gateway to Little Valley as well as a lack of


                               MAGNA COUNCIL MEMBERS
                    MAYOR ERIC BARNEY, MAYOR PRO TEM AUDREY PIERCE,
                COUNCIL MEMBER TRISH HULL, COUNCIL MEMBER STEVE PROKOPIS,
                             COUNCIL MEMBER MICK SUDBURY
stop signs and parking enforcement.

Stan Pappas – Asked for follow-up on his previous comments regarding the city noise
ordinance and shared suggestions and a handout (Attachment A) regarding using tennis
courts as pickleball courts to save money.

   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
      A. Unified Police Department
      B. 4th of July
      C. Pleasant Green Cemetery


   6. CONSENT AGENDA
      A. Approve City Council Minutes
              1. June 10, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes

Council Member Hull moved to approve the June 10, 2025 Meeting Minutes as
published. Council Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

   7. PRESENTATION ITEMS
      A. Webster Center Renovations

Heber Slabbert with AJC Architects reviewed his presentation regarding the proposed
renovations (Attachment B).

      B. Discussion on Reporting of 0% Tax Rate

Council and staff discussed the letter attached to the meeting packet regarding reporting the
current tax rate.

   8. COUNCIL BUSINESS - None


   9. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES

David Brickey discussed the parade route, starting at 8400 W and 3100 S, moving west at
8560 W, turning north and heading toward Main Street. Once at Main Street parade turns west
on Main Street until it reaches 8950 W, where it will turn North toward Copper Park. At 2600 S
(frontage of park) the parade will turn west and finish in the area of 9180 W.

He then addressed a question from Magna City candidate:
Question: “Why did the council elect to become a city?”
Answer: The council did not have a role in the determination that was made by the Utah
Legislature. HB35 (during the 2024 session) lines 229-230 made the conversion “automatic” in


    Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
May 2024.

Additional updates:
  - The Cordero intersection will begin conversion to an intersection with lights June 30,
       2025, next Monday.
  - Parks has been working on getting the lights in Copper Park operational by July 4.
  - Magna Main St. construction has uncovered two significant issues that the Engineering
       teams are working to resolve. One is a storm drain near 8400 N and the other is a
       private property issue that was uncovered close to the intersection of 9040 W.
  - URS has confirmed eligibility – further discussions and analysis has been undertaken
       and the reality is that once the determination of eligibility was confirmed the way to
       “cure” the contribution requirement is that URS is entitled to 10% of stipend paid to
       elected official, a late fee and interest.
  - Salt Lake County has mailed the titles from transfer of properties to Magna.
  - Applications have been coming in for the Assistant City Manager Position, with 40
       submissions to the MSD.


   10. COUNCIL REPORTS

No updates recorded.

Council Member Sudbury moved to recess the City Council Meeting and move to
Closed Session. Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

   11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-
      4-205
      A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or
         mental health of an individual.
      B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
      C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
      D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
      E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

Council Member Hull moved to adjourn the Closed Session and return to the Council
Meeting. Council Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

   12. ADJOURN

Council Member Hull moved to adjourn the June 24, 2025 Magna City Council Meeting.
Council Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

The June 10, 2025 Magna City Council Meeting adjourned at 7:52 PM



   Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
This is a true and correct copy of the June 24, 2025 City Council Meeting Minutes, which
were approved on July 8, 2025.


Attest:


                                                       Eric Barney, Magna City Mayor

Diana Baun, Magna City Recorder




   Magna City Council • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
June 10, 2025


David Brickey
City Manager
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, UT 84044

Subject: Request to present information about Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District proposed property
tax increase

Dear David:
       On June 4, 2025, the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD) Board adopted a tentative
budget that includes an increase in the property tax levy which exceeds the projected certified tax rate for
tax year 2025. Pursuant to Utah law, JVWCD Board Member Mick Sudbury representing Magna City
requests the opportunity to report to the City Council during an upcoming public meeting about the JVWCD’s
proposed tax increase. This report will include the dollar amount of and purposes for the additional tax
revenues, the approximate percentage increase in proposed tax revenues for the JVWCD, and any other
information requested by the City Council. The report is not expected to take more than ten minutes.
        Utah Code Section 17B-1-1003 includes several requirements related to the report to the City
Council. First, the report should be listed as a separate item on your Council’s agenda. Second, the report
to the Council should be scheduled for a meeting within 40 days of your receipt of this request with an
opportunity for members of the public to comment on the property tax proposal. Finally, Mr. Sudbury would
also be ready to address questions from the City Council and receive the Council’s sentiment regarding the
property tax proposal. If needed, an alternate assigned by the JVWCD Board chair may make the report in
place of Mr. Sudbury.
       A suggested entry for the Council’s meeting agenda could be this simple:
                1.      Water Supply Issues
                           a) Report by Mick Sudbury of a proposed property tax increase by Jordan Valley
                               Water Conservancy District for water service purposes.
                           b) Comment on the report by members of the public and/or the City Council.
Alternatively, you could place the report prior to the normal public comments item on the City Council meeting
agenda to provide the opportunity to receive public comments on the property tax increase proposal. Please
advise me of the date and time of the City Council meeting you schedule for Mr. Sudbury to report.
       Thank you. I appreciate the good working relationship that exists between Magna City and JVWCD.
Sincerely,




Alan E. Packard, P.E.
General Manager
cc: Mick Sudbury
TENTATIVE FINANCIAL PLAN
         FOR THE
    2025/2026 BUDGET

   July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026
                                                                              Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget


                           PARAMETERS FOR 2025/2026 BUDGET PREPARATION

Preparation of the fiscal year 2025/2026 budget will be based upon the following budget parameters, derived from the document
Establishing a Level of Service for the fiscal year 2025/2026 budget and preliminary assumptions from the 10-year Financial Plan.


  WATER DELIVERIES
   Budgeted water deliveries do not include an adjustment for minimum purchase contracts either missed or carried over, as
   historically those adjustments have been immaterial.
                                                                                              Preliminary           Final
     BUDGETED WATER DELIVERIES (acre-feet)                                  2024/2025          2025/2026         2025/2026
         Wholesale water deliveries                                                         95,500                 98,500           98,600
         Retail water deliveries                                                             8,500                  8,000            7,900
             Total budgeted water deliveries                                               104,000                106,500         106,500

  WATER RATE ADJUSTMENTS
   A water rate study update will be completed by HDR Engineering, including the calculated revenue requirement and any
   needed water rate adjustment. Transfers from the Short-Term Operating Reserve and Revenue Stabilization Funds may be
   included in the budget, at the desired amount, to offset the water rate adjustment. Proposed updated water rates for wholesale
   member agencies and retail customers will be calculated by HDR Engineering. The Board may approve these rates on a
   tentative basis during the April board meeting, when approving the tentative budget. Final water rates will be approved at the
   June board meeting.
                                                                                                 Preliminary            Final
     BUDGETED WATER RATE ADJUSTMENT                                              2024/2025        2025/2026           2025/2026
         Average water rate adjustment                                                    6.0%               5.0% - 6.0% *        4.90%
                * range includes use of funds available from the Short-Term Operating Reserve and Revenue Stabilization Funds


  SHORT-TERM OPERATING RESERVE AND REVENUE STABILIZATION FUNDS
   The Short-Term Operating Reserve and Revenue Stabilization Funds are funded by year-end annual transfers of PayGo
   Capital from operations. The District intends to use amounts in those funds, when available, as a source of funds when
   budgeting and calculating water rates.
                                                                                                 Preliminary           Final
                                                                              Balance as of    reserves to use reserves to use
     BUDGETED USE OF RESERVE FUNDS                                             11/30/2024         2025/2026         2025/2026
         Short-Term Operating Reserve Fund                                          $      4,062,666     $        4,062,666   $    4,062,666
         Revenue Stabilization Fund                                                        2,918,220          1.0 – 2.0 M          1,571,063

  PROPERTY TAX RATE AND TAX REVENUE
   By State statute, the District may levy a maximum property tax rate of 0.0004 for operation and maintenance expenses. The
   District has sought to maintain its tax rate at or near the maximum, holding Truth in Taxation public hearings when needed.
   The District will reserve the date of its August 2025 Board meeting for a possible hearing, pending receipt of the actual certified
   tax rate, and decision by the Board. The current version of the 10-year Financial Plan assumes a tax rate increase.
                                                                                Preliminary                         Final
     BUDGETED TAX RATE                              2024/2025                   2025/2026                       2025/2026
     AND TAX REVENUE                          Tax Rate   Tax Revenue     Tax Rate      Tax Revenue       Tax Rate      Tax Revenue
         Certified tax rate                  0.000321       $ 27,612,531       0.000311        $ 28,300,000            Tax rates are not
         Adopted tax rate                    0.000321        27,612,531        0.000340          30,900,000           released until June
         Tax rate increase                     0.0%                    0         9.3%             2,600,000
                Note: Net of RDA outlays; includes new growth; excludes vehicle flat tax, redemptions, interest

                                                                    1
                                                                       Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget


                       PARAMETERS FOR 2025/2026 BUDGET PREPARATION

OTHER RESERVE FUND BALANCES
                                                                              Balance as of          Preliminary            Final
  OTHER RESERVE FUND BALANCES TO BE MAINTAINED                                 11/30/2024            2025/2026            2025/2026
      Operation & Maintenance Fund minimum balance of three-
      months working capital (required by bond covenants)                    $      7,900,000    $      8,200,000     $     8,200,000
      Revenue Fund minimum balance of 25% of annual debt service
      amount (required by bond covenants)                                           7,123,625           7,759,838           7,759,838
      Emergency Reserve/Self-Insurance Fund (proposed to be
      increased over the next several years)                                        5,988,314           6,040,000           6,040,000

OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES
Budgeted Operation and Maintenance expenses will be based on level of service with inflationary increases and cost variations
related to changing water demands.
  BUDGETED OPERATION AND                                                         Preliminary                         Final
  MAINTENANCE EXPENSES                         2024/2025                         2025/2026                         2025/2026
      Total Operation & Maint.                     1.1%                          4.0% - 6.0%                          7.0%
      Personnel compensation adj.                  5.0%                          4.2% - 5.5%                          5.0%
      New personnel positions                   3 full-time                       3 full-time                      3 full-time
                                          2 Maintenance Workers            Elec. & Instr. Tech III          Elec. & Instr. Tech III
                                            Maintenance Lead             Meter Service Technician         Meter Service Technician
                                                                         Corrosion Control Tech II        Corrosion Control Tech II

CAPITAL PROJECT EXPENDITURES
                                                                                                     Preliminary            Final
  BUDGETED CAPITAL PROJECT EXPENDITURES (BY CATEGORY                             2024/2025           2025/2026            2025/2026
CP1: Major rehabilitation or replacement of existing facilities              $     11,883,725    $     11,646,000     $    12,820,373
CP2: New facilities needed for compliance or functional upgrades
     (no new capacity)                                                              6,270,576          10,563,000          10,175,028
CP3: New water supply, treatment, conveyance, or storage facilities
     (new capacity)                                                                47,623,898          75,925,000          58,337,919
CP4: Projects to serve lands currently outside current boundaries                     902,000             913,000           1,122,500
CP5: Landscape conversion projects                                                    557,500             375,000             540,450
    Total budgeted net capital project expenditures                          $     67,237,699    $     99,422,000     $    82,996,270
Major projects include: JVWTP expansion and seismic upgrades, Southwest Aqueduct extension, two new storage reservoirs,
four new wells, transmission facilities and distribution pipeline replacements.
      Note: CP1 and CP5 projects are funded by the Replacement Reserve Fund through annual PayGo Capital transfers (see below). All
      other capital projects are funded by either new bonds issued or fund balances available in the Capital Projects Fund.

PAYGO CAPITAL FROM OPERATIONS
                                                                                                     Preliminary            Final
  BUDGETED PAYGO CAPITAL TRANSFERS FROM OPERATIONS                               2024/2025           2025/2026            2025/2026
      Amount generated from operations for PayGo Capital to be
      budgeted as a year-end funding transfer.                               $     19,991,123    $     19,200,000     $    21,322,682
      Funds to receive budgeted PayGo Capital funding transfer:
        ▪ Replacement Reserve Fund                                   ▪ Emergency Reserve/Self-Insurance Fund
        ▪ Development Fee Fund                                       ▪ Operation & Maintenance and Revenue Funds minimum reserve
        ▪ General Equipment Fund                                     requirements
                                                              2
                                                                      Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget


                                          OVERVIEW - 2025/2026 BUDGET

                                   2023/2024                   2024/2025                   2025/2026       Budget to Budget
SOURCES OF FUNDS                     Actual            Projected        Budget              Budget        $ Variance   % Var.
Water Sales - Wholesale         $ 55,846,116       $ 60,675,608      $ 58,959,984      $ 62,757,782      $ 3,797,798     6.4%
Water Sales - Retail               7,477,432          7,949,989         7,743,193         8,718,976           975,783 12.6%
Property Tax Revenue              29,868,863         29,484,156        29,461,200        33,400,913         3,939,713 13.4%
Investment Income                  6,611,115          7,510,060         5,575,700         4,563,000        (1,012,700) -18.2%
Impact Fees - Retail                 345,294            382,319           416,000           386,000           (30,000) -7.2%
Other                             17,962,654          1,469,328         1,530,000         1,520,000           (10,000) -0.7%
  Subtotal                        118,111,474          107,471,460       103,686,077       111,346,671         7,660,594     7.4%
Short-Term Operating Res                   -             3,386,936         3,386,936         4,062,666           675,730 20.0%
Revenue Stabiliz. Fund               5,663,452           1,800,748         1,800,748         1,571,063          (229,685) -12.8%
Capital Projects Fd. (net)          42,114,546          44,232,331        67,237,699        82,996,270        15,758,571 23.4%
Capital Projects (reimb.)            1,090,408           2,237,128         6,547,432         7,614,538         1,067,106 16.3%
TOTAL SOURCES                   $ 166,979,880      $ 159,128,603     $ 182,658,892     $ 207,591,208      $ 24,932,316       13.6%

USES OF FUNDS
Operation and Maintenance $         55,515,421     $ 57,882,528      $ 60,388,138      $ 64,618,368      $ 4,230,230         7.0%
Bond Principal and Interest         24,739,364       28,330,230        28,494,500        31,039,350        2,544,850         8.9%
Transfers to Reserve Funds:
  Replacement Reserve Fd.           14,328,572          13,703,323        13,703,323        15,659,882         1,956,559 14.3%
  Capital Projects Fund             16,773,703             525,487               -                 -                 -       N/A
  Development Fee Fund                 345,294             382,319           416,000           386,000           (30,000) -7.2%
  General Equipment Fund               900,000             700,000           700,000         1,000,000           300,000 42.9%
  Emergency Reserve Fund               300,000             200,000           200,000           200,000               -      0.0%
  Interest Allocated to Funds        4,787,110           5,550,000         3,971,800         2,976,800          (995,000) -25.1%
  Short-Term Operating Res.          4,062,666           2,669,880               -                 -                 -       N/A
  Revenue Stabilization Fd.          1,522,796           1,715,377               -                 -                 -       N/A
  Revenue Fund                         200,000             700,000           700,000           600,000          (100,000) -14.3%
  Operation & Maint. Fund              300,000             300,000           300,000           500,000           200,000 66.7%
Total Transfers                     43,520,141          26,446,386        19,991,123        21,322,682         1,331,559     6.7%
  Subtotal                        123,774,926          112,659,144       108,873,761       116,980,400         8,106,639     7.4%
Capital Projects (gross)            43,204,954          46,469,459        73,785,131        90,610,808        16,825,677     22.8%
TOTAL USES                      $ 166,979,880      $ 159,128,603     $ 182,658,892     $ 207,591,208      $ 24,932,316       13.6%

Non-Operating and Non-Cash Expenses and Accruals*
 Depreciation & Amortiz.   $ 10,004,639 $ 9,500,000 $                      9,500,000 $ 10,200,000 $              700,000    7.4%
 Net Pension Expense           (419,317)     (1,000,000)                  (1,000,000)    (800,000)               200,000 -20.0%
 OPEB Expense                   451,447         440,000                      440,000      450,000                 10,000    2.3%
 Self Insurance Claims           29,906          70,000                      100,000      100,000                    -      0.0%
 Bond Issuance Costs            731,256         770,000                      300,000          -                 (300,000)-100.0%
                                $ 10,797,931       $     9,780,000   $     9,340,000   $     9,950,000    $     610,000      6.5%
* These are non-operating and non-cash expenses and accruals, not included in the operating budget, but disclosed here for
reference. The operating budget is prepared on a modified accrual basis.


                                                              3
                                                             Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget


                       OVERVIEW - 2025/2026 BUDGET (SOURCES & USES)



                                               SOURCES                     Impact Fees - Retail,
                                                                               $386,000
                                      Investment Income,
              Property Tax Revenue,       $4,563,000                     Other, $1,520,000
                  $33,400,913                                                       Revenue Stabilization Fund,
                                                                                           $5,633,729
                                                                                   Replacement Reserve Fund,
   Water Sales - Retail,
                                                                                          $13,360,823
      $8,718,976                                                                          Capital Projects Fund,
                                                                                               $4,149,104
                                                                                             Development Fee Fund,
                                                                                                     $386,000




                                                                                             Bond Proceeds,
                                                                                              $65,100,343
     Water Sales - Wholesale,
          $62,757,782

                                                            Project Reimbursements,
                                                                    7,614,538




                                                   USES
                                                      Transfers to Reserve Funds,
                                                             $21,322,682              CP1: Existing Facilities
  Bond Principal and Interest,                                                      Replacement, $14,091,300
         $31,039,350
                                                                                        CP2: New Facilities / No New
                                                                                           Capacity, $12,841,561




                                                                                             CP3: New Facilities / New
                                                                                              Capacity, $59,752,997

Operation and Maintenance,                                                        CP4: Outside District
        $64,618,368                                                              Boundaries, $1,122,500
                                                               CP5: Landscape Conversion
                                                                  Projects, $2,802,450
                                                       4
                                                               Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget


                                  REVENUE DETAIL - 2025/2026 BUDGET

                                                                                          Budgeted
                                                                               Rate       Revenues         Total
WATER SALES - WHOLESALE                                 Deliveries AF         per AF
  Wholesale Deliveries                                          98,600        $634.25    $ 62,537,050
  Meter Base Charges                                                                          220,732   $ 62,757,782
WATER SALES - RETAIL
  Retail Deliveries                                              7,900        1,043.98     8,247,442
  Meter Base Charges                                                                         388,572
  Other Fees                                                                                  26,300
  Fire Line Charges                                                                           56,662       8,718,976
PROPERTY TAX REVENUE (S.L. & Utah Co.)                 Prop. Valuation
  2024 Certified Tax Rate Value                        $88,211,519,104
  x Collection Rate (97.55%)                            86,050,336,886
     x 2024 Adopted Tax Rate (0.000321)                                                  $27,622,200
   2025 New Growth (5-year avg.) x Collection Rate     2,028,200,564
      New Growth x 2025 Estimated Certified Tax Rate (0.000311)                              630,913
   Truth In Taxation (CTR of 0.000311 to 0.000345)
   Tax Increase on 2024 Taxable Value                        2,134,200
   Tax Increase on 2025 Est. Reappraisal (2-yr avg.)         1,043,600
                                                             3,177,800                     3,177,800
   + Vehicles Flat Tax (2024=$1,519,368)                                                   1,520,000
   + Redemptions (2024=$371,566)                                                             380,000
   + Interest (2024=$73,156)                                                                  70,000      33,400,913
INVESTMENT INCOME                                       Average Bal.
   Revenue Fund                                           $16,070,000           3.83%       $615,700
   Opertaion & Maintenance Fund                            19,000,000           3.95%        751,000
   General Equipment Fund                                     800,000           4.00%         32,000
   Emg. Reserve/Self Insurance Fund                         5,900,000           4.13%        243,500
   Other Maintenance Reserve Funds                            433,000           4.00%         17,300
   Revenue Stabilization Fund                               5,000,000           4.00%        200,000
   Capital Projects and R&R Funds                          46,100,000           4.00%      1,844,000
   Bond Projects Fund                                      16,000,000           4.00%        640,000
   Bond Debt Service Reserve Funds                          5,165,000           4.25%        219,500       4,563,000
RETAIL IMPACT FEES
  Retail Impact Fees (3/4" to 8" size) - Restricted to Development Fee Fund
      5-Year Average Impact Fee Revenue                                                                      386,000
OTHER
  Operation & Maintenance Cost Sharing                                                      $750,000
  Site Leases (Cell Towers)                                                                  250,000
  Land Leases/Home Rentals/Conserv. Bldg Rental/Easements                                    160,000
  Grant Revenue                                                                              110,000
  Sale of Assets/Scrap/Surplus                                                               100,000
  Board Service/Other                                                                         65,000
  Miscellaneous Water Sales                                                                   50,000
  Lab Services                                                                                35,000       1,520,000
       TOTAL REVENUES                                                                                   $ 111,346,671
                                                        5
                                                         Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget


                                          REVENUE DETAIL



                            2023/2024             2024/2025               2025/2026      Budget to Budget
REVENUE SOURCE                Actual       Projected      Budget           Budget       $ Variance % Var.
Water Sales
 Wholesale Deliveries      $ 55,625,090   $ 60,457,260    $ 58,740,733   $ 62,537,050   $ 3,796,317     6.5%
 Wholesale Meter Charges        221,026        218,348         219,251        220,732         1,481     0.7%
 Retail Deliveries            7,029,098      7,496,255       7,288,467      8,247,442       958,975    13.2%
 Retail Meter Charges           385,980        385,221         386,000        388,572         2,572     0.7%
 Other Fees                      20,270         24,987          25,034         26,300         1,266     5.1%
 Fire Line Charges               42,084         43,526          43,692         56,662        12,970    29.7%

                            63,323,548     68,625,597      66,703,177     71,476,758      4,773,581    7.2%

Property Tax Revenue        29,868,863     29,484,156      29,461,200     33,400,913      3,939,713    13.4%

Interest Income              6,611,115      7,510,060       5,575,700      4,563,000     (1,012,700) -18.2%

Impact Fees - Retail           345,294        382,319         416,000        386,000        (30,000)   -7.2%

Miscellaneous Revenue
 O&M Cost Sharing              698,554        712,525         720,000        750,000         30,000     4.2%
 Grant Revenue                 702,889        114,061         120,000        110,000        (10,000)   -8.3%
 Other Revenues             16,561,211        642,742         690,000        660,000        (30,000)   -4.3%
                            17,962,654      1,469,328       1,530,000      1,520,000        (10,000)   -0.7%
Total Revenues             $118,111,474   $107,471,460    $103,686,077   $111,346,671   $ 7,660,594    7.4%




                                                  6
                                                             Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget


                               OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE DETAIL



Obj                             2023/2024             2024/2025               2025/2026      Budget to Budget
No.    Description                Actual       Projected      Budget           Budget       $ Variance % Var.
5110 Emp. Wages & Benefits $ 20,117,439       $ 20,647,652    $ 21,442,591   $ 23,437,454   $ 1,994,863    9.3%
5170 Gen. Admin. & Uniforms     302,515            408,652         411,005        358,260       (52,745) -12.8%
5180 Tuition Assistance          33,743             26,061          40,000         40,000           -      0.0%
5210 Insurance                1,275,527          1,357,817       1,374,378      1,430,636        56,258    4.1%
5220 Office Supplies             44,787             47,130          51,076         51,336           260    0.5%
5230 Computer Equipment         743,102            892,812         916,159      1,022,941       106,782 11.7%
5250 Mailing                     96,595             97,398         104,700        110,900         6,200    5.9%
5260 Safety                     108,685            100,281         106,163        130,665        24,502 23.1%
5270 Public Relations              186,227        182,491         185,500        240,900        55,400 29.9%
5280 Prof Consulting               248,010        311,185         409,200        506,072        96,872 23.7%
5282 Prof Consulting - Audit        19,500         18,200          35,900         34,500        (1,400) -3.9%
5284 Prof Consulting - Legal       367,172        396,847         452,300        478,300        26,000   5.7%
5286 Bond and Bank Fees            407,774        399,092         402,300        399,200        (3,100) -0.8%
5290 Training & Education          269,074        290,940         378,221        396,919        18,698   4.9%
5310 Tools & Equipment             394,302        345,626         345,305        361,494        16,189    4.7%
5330 Parts - General Equip.        125,942        124,966         140,925        159,690        18,765 13.3%
5340 Fuel                          152,348        163,674         201,660        180,300       (21,360) -10.6%
5350 Bldg. & Grounds Maint.        391,772        417,157         440,700        468,030        27,330    6.2%
5360 Scheduled Maint.              566,258        601,794         663,477        758,817        95,340 14.4%
5380 Repair & Replacement          797,994      1,510,680       1,837,670      2,059,566       221,896 12.1%
5390 Utility Location               29,491         32,994          37,050         41,300         4,250 11.5%
5400 General Property               75,615         94,227         168,270        155,270        (13,000) -7.7%
5410 Electrical Power            3,475,726      4,242,586       4,566,568      5,609,502      1,042,934 22.8%
5420 Heat                          222,831        187,481         192,081        200,793          8,712    4.5%
5430 Sewer                          34,905         35,135          36,353         41,663          5,310 14.6%
5440 Water                          79,828         56,502          52,158         61,559          9,401 18.0%
5450 Phone & Telemetry              40,213         60,737          26,904         31,104          4,200 15.6%
5530 Lease                          37,928         55,170          65,826         46,576        (19,250) -29.2%
5670 Conservation Programs       2,257,746        469,508         520,830        544,613         23,783    4.6%
5710 Chemicals                   2,801,347      3,270,648       3,611,101      3,493,571       (117,530)   -3.3%
5720 Lab                           162,678        169,756         201,660        218,900         17,240     8.5%
5750 Water Qual. - Field             4,423          7,465          15,170         13,970         (1,200)   -7.9%
5770 Water Qual. - Analysis        298,865        307,461         467,516        457,624         (9,892)   -2.1%
5810 Water Purchases            18,022,362     19,014,376      19,082,090     19,262,920       180,830      0.9%
5820 Water stock assess.         1,322,697      1,538,027       1,405,331      1,813,023       407,692     29.0%
      Total Expenses           $ 55,515,421   $ 57,882,528    $ 60,388,138   $ 64,618,368   $ 4,230,230    7.0%




                                                     7
                                                    Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                     OPERATING FUNDS - CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS




                                                         Operation &      General
                                          Revenue        Maintenance     Equipment
                                           Fund             Fund           Fund
Beginning Balance July 1, 2025            $13,500,000     $14,700,000      $500,000

SOURCES OF FUNDS:
Water Sales                                71,476,758
Property Tax Receipts                                      33,400,913
Transfer from Short-Term Oper Res Fd        4,062,666
Transfer from Revenue Stabilization Fd      1,571,063                       200,000
Transfer from DSRF's (Interest Income)        219,500
Transfer from Revenue Fund                                 27,300,000
2024/2025 PayGo Capital Transfer                                            700,000
Connection Fees / Miscellaneous             1,906,000
Interest Income                               615,700        751,000         32,000
 Total Sources                             79,851,687      61,451,913       932,000


USES OF FUNDS:
Debt Service Payments                     (31,039,350)
Operation and Maintenance Expenses                        (64,618,368)
General Equipment Fund Purchases                                          (1,316,678)
Transfer to O&M Fund                      (27,000,000)
Transfer to O&M Reserve                      (300,000)
Transfer to Replacement Reserve Fund      (13,703,323)
Transfer to Development Fee Fund             (416,000)
Transfer to General Equipment Fund           (700,000)
Transfer to Self Ins./ Emer. Reserve Fd      (200,000)
Transfer to Short-Term Oper Res Fd         (2,669,880)
Transfer to Revenue Stabilization Fund     (1,715,377)
 Total Uses                               (77,743,930)    (64,618,368)    (1,316,678)

Ending Balance June 30, 2026              $15,607,757     $11,533,545      $115,322




                                                8
                                                  Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                      CAPITAL FUNDS - CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS




                                       Capital        Replacement     Development
                                       Projects         Reserve           Fee
                                        Fund             Fund            Fund
Beginning Balance July 1, 2025         $62,000,000      $9,000,000             $0

SOURCES OF FUNDS:
2024/2025 PayGo Capital Transfer                        13,703,323        416,000
Transfer from Bond Project Fund         31,140,000
Transfer from Capital Projects Fund
Transfer from Bond DSR Funds                     0
Reimbursement - from other agencies      3,080,043       3,467,389
Interest Income                          1,106,400         719,160         18,440
 Total Sources                          35,326,443      17,889,872        434,440


USES OF FUNDS:
Transfer to Replacement Reserve Fund
CP1 Capital Projects (gross)                           (14,091,300)
CP2 Capital Projects (gross)           (12,841,561)
CP3 Capital Projects (gross)           (59,318,557)
CP4 Capital Projects (gross)            (1,122,500)
CP5 Capital Projects (gross)                            (2,802,450)
Development Fee Fund expenditures                                         (434,440)
 Total Uses                            (73,282,618)    (16,893,750)       (434,440)

Ending Balance June 30, 2026           $24,043,825      $9,996,122             $0




                                             9
                                                            Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                        RESERVE FUNDS - CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS




                                           Emg. Reserve/        Maintenance       Short-Term          Revenue
                                           Self Insurance        Reserve           Operating        Stabilization
                                                Fund              Funds          Reserve Fund          Fund
Beginning Balance July 1, 2025                    $5,900,000        $433,000        $4,062,666        $3,160,000

SOURCES OF FUNDS:
2024/2025 PayGo Capital Transfer                    200,000                             2,669,880      1,715,377
Interest Income                                     243,500            17,300                            200,000
 Total Sources                                      443,500            17,300           2,669,880      1,915,377


USES OF FUNDS:
Self Insurance claims                               (100,000)
Transfer to Revenue Fund                                                             (4,062,666)       (1,571,063)
Transfer to Capital Projects Fund
Transfer to General Equipment Fund                                                                       (200,000)
Other expenditures
 Total Uses                                         (100,000)                0       (4,062,666)       (1,771,063)

Ending Balance June 30, 2026                      $6,243,500        $450,300        $2,669,880        $3,304,314



REVENUE STABILIZATION FUND TRANSFER FOR JULY 1, 2025
   Transfer to Revenue Fund - Prior Year Unspent O&M Funds 1                        $4,062,666                $0
   Transfer to Revenue Fund - Additional Funding Transfer 1                                  0         1,571,063
   Transfer to Capital Projects Fund 2                                                       0                 0
   Transfer to General Equipment Fund 3                                                      0           200,000
                                                                                    $4,062,666        $1,771,063

              1 Transfer amount determined by the Board to be used as an operating source to
               reduce the water rate adjustment
              2 Transfer amount determined by the Board to be used as an additional source to
               fund the Capital Projects Fund or Replacement Reserve Fund
              3 Transfer any additional amount needed to fund general equipment items




                                                       10
                                               Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                    RESTRICTED FUNDS - CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS




                                     2008 B-1       2009C         2024A Bond
                                    DSR Fund       DSR Fund       Project Fund
Beginning Balance July 1, 2025       $5,005,000       $165,000     $30,500,000

SOURCES OF FUNDS:
New Money Bond Issue
Transfer from Other Fund
Interest Income                        212,500           7,000         640,000
 Total Sources                         212,500           7,000         640,000


USES OF FUNDS:
Bond Issuance Costs
Transfer to Capital Projects Fund                                  (31,140,000)
Transfer Interest to Revenue Fund      (212,500)        (7,000)
Transfer to Bond Fund
 Total Uses                            (212,500)        (7,000)    (31,140,000)

Ending Balance June 30, 2026         $5,005,000       $165,000              $0




                                          11
                                                                                                 Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                                                               SUMMARY OF FUND PURPOSES

                                                                                      REVENUE FUND
                                                           Purpose                                                                             Balance
                  Established by bond covenants in 1982. All cash receipts, except property tax receipts and O&M       Bond covenants require that a minimum balance of 25% of
                  reimbursements, are deposited into this fund. Money is transferred from this fund to the Principal   total annual debt service (currently defined in the 2025/2026
                  and Interest Funds to make debt service payments and to the O&M Fund to pay operating                budget as $7,123,625) be maintained in the fund at all times.
                  expenses. At year-end, PayGo Capital from operations may be transferred to the Capital               (Master Resolution 6.12(ii))
                  Projects Fund and other reserve funds, or used for other purposes as authorized by the Board.
OPERATING FUNDS




                                                                    OPERATION & MAINTENANCE FUND
                                                           Purpose                                                                             Balance
                  Established by bond covenants in 1982. All operation and maintenance expenses are paid from          Bond covenants require that a minimum balance of three
                  this fund. Property tax receipts, O&M reimbursements, and transfers from the Revenue Fund are        months working capital (currently defined as $7,900,000) be
                  the sources of funding.                                                                              maintained in the fund at all times. (Master Resolution 5.05e)


                  In accordance with Utah law, including but not limited to Utah Code Ann. (1953) § 17B-1-642, and with the internal policies and practices of the District, all
                  expenditures exceeding $75,000 shall be brought to the Board for approval, with the exception of routine and budgeted expenditures exceeding that dollar amount
                  that involve payroll, payroll-related expenses, insurance premiums, utilities, debt service and related bond expenses, supplies, materials, chemicals, water
                  purchases, and software maintenance.

                                                                          GENERAL EQUIPMENT FUND
                                                           Purpose                                                                             Balance
                  Established by the Board in 1993, this fund facilitates the budgeting and funding of vehicles and    The maximum balance will be determined by the cost of
                  other depreciable assets over $10,000. Items under $10,000 are budgeted and expensed from            designated general equipment purchses approved by the
                  the O&M Fund. Expenditures from the fund are approved according to the procurement policy.           Board in the 2025/2026 budget.




                                                                            CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
                                                           Purpose                                                                             Balance
                  Established in 1989 in conjunction with the 1990 budget. Capital projects authorized by the          The maximum balance will be determined by the cost of
                  Board are paid from this fund. Bond proceeds and capital reimbursements are transferred into         designated projects approved by the Board. This fund has a
                  the fund as projects are completed. At year-end, PayGo Capital from operations may be                target balance of approximately one to two years future project
CAPITAL FUNDS




                  transferred from the Revenue Fund, when approved by the Board.                                       costs. Interest earnings accrue in the fund.


                                                                       REPLACEMENT RESERVE FUND
                                                           Purpose                                                                             Balance
                  Established in 2016 to ensure a sustainable ongoing source of funding to rehabilitate and            Upon Board approval, PayGo Capital from operations may be
                  replace capital assets, as required by a new Utah Legislature enacted policy. The goal is to fund    transferred from the Revenue Fund or Revenue Stabilization
                  all replacements of qualified capital assets.                                                        Fund at the end of each fiscal year.


                                                                             DEVELOPMENT FEE FUND
                                                           Purpose                                                                             Balance
                  Established by the Board in 1992 to receive retail impact fees that will be used to fund expansion   The balance in this fund is determined by impact and
                  or improvements of the retail system. For example, the 5600 West Pipeline Project loan from the      development fees collected. Fees collected in the 2025/2026
                  Board of Water Resources was repaid from this fund, also well development and other new              budget period will be transferred to this fund from the Revenue
                  water sources.                                                                                       Fund, upon Board approval.




                                                                                          12
                                                                                                  Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                                                                SUMMARY OF FUND PURPOSES

                                                        EMERGENCY RESERVE / SELF-INSURANCE FUND
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established by the Board in 1987. All self-insured claims and deductibles are paid from this fund.   Interest will be allowed to accumulate, when possible.
                   In addition, this fund will be used to begin repairs in the case of catastrophic events.             Additional funding may be budgeted as needed.

                                                             BOND RENEWAL AND REPLACEMENT FUND
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established by bond covenants in 1982. Separate funds are maintained for bond issues and the         Bond covenants require a balance of $100,000, subject to the
                   Jordan Aqueduct Repayment Contract. This fund is used in the case of extraordinary O&M               periodic revision by a qualified engineer. Interest earnings
                   expenses or major repairs not covered by insurance.                                                  have continued to accrue in the fund.

                                                               JORDAN AQUEDUCT MAINTENANCE FUND
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
RESERVE FUNDS




                   Established by contract with the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation in 1986. Separate funds are              The current balance for the Jordan Aqueduct Repayment
                   maintained for bond issues and the Jordan Aqueduct Repayment Contract. This fund is used in          contract portion is approximately $136,000. Interest earnings
                   the case of extraordinary O&M expenses or major repairs not covered by insurance.                    continue to accrue in the fund.


                                                                           JVWTP MAINTENANCE FUND
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established by the Operation and Maintenance Agreement for the JVWTP and Terminal                    The District added $10,000 annually to its portion of the fund
                   Reservoir in 1993, through a contract between JVWCD, MWDSL&S, and CUWCD. This fund is                until the fund reached a balance of $50,000. Interest earnings
                   used to cover unforeseen extraordinary O&M expenses and repair & maintenance costs at the            have continued to accrue in the fund.
                   treatment plant.


                                                              SHORT-TERM OPERATING RESERVE FUND
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established by the Board in 2023. Uses PayGo Capital generated by unspent budgeted                   Upon Board approval, funds may be transferred into this fund
                   expenditures from the prior year, to be used as a source of funds for the subsequent year.           at the end of the fiscal year, and then transferred out at the
                                                                                                                        beginning of the next fiscal year.

                                                                        REVENUE STABILIZATION FUND
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established by the Board in 2019. Used to fund the Replacement Reserve Fund and Capital              Upon Board approval, PayGo Capital from operations (in
                   Projects Fund, General Equipment Fund, to reduce water rate adjustments, pay off debt, or            excess of budgeted) may be transferred from the Revenue
                   other purpose approved by the Board.                                                                 Fund at the end of the fiscal year.



                                                                      PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST FUNDS
RESTRICTED FUNDS




                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established by bond covenant in 1982. Semiannual debt service payments are paid from these           The balance is generally $0. Funds are deposited and
                   funds after money is transferred from the Revenue Fund.                                              dispersed on April 1st and October 1st.

                                                                       DEBT SERVICE RESERVE FUNDS
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established by bond covenants for each applicable bond issue. Maintained as a reserve, in case       The balance must equal the average aggregate debt service
                   revenues are not sufficient to meet debt service payments.                                           payment.

                                                                BOND PROJECT CONSTRUCTION FUNDS
                                                            Purpose                                                                             Balance
                   Established through the issuance of bonds. The fund holds the bond proceeds until transferred        The balance in the fund is the remaining amount of bond
                   to the Capital Projects Fund for payment of project costs.                                           proceeds from the bond issue.


                                                                                           13
                                                 Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                                      SUMMARY OF FEES


   Approved fees charged by the District are included and described in the District's Administrative
   Policy and Procedures Manual, Rules and Regulations for Wholesale Water Service, and Rules and
   Regulations for Retail Water Service documents. The following is a summary of those fees.

                                                                          2024/2025       2025/2026
                                                                            Fees            Fees
GRAMA REQUEST FEES
  Copies:
       Paper (per sheet)                                                  $      0.25    $       0.25

   Personnel time (charged in 15 minute increments):
        First 15 minutes                                                    No fee         No fee
        Administrative Assistant (per hour)                                    40.00          40.00
        Records Manager (per hour)                                             40.00          40.00
        Consultant                                                        Actual cost    Actual cost

   Conversion and mailing costs                                           Actual cost    Actual cost


COMMUTING VALUATION FEE
  Employees assigned District vehicles to commute to and from work
  have a "Commuting Valuation" fee added to their semi-monthly
  paycheck (set by I.R.S.)
       Commuting valuation fee (each one-way)                                    1.50            1.50


ENCROACHMENT FEES
  Processing fee for the following easement encroachment applications:         300.00         300.00
       Southwest Aqueduct Reaches 1 & 2
       150th South Pipeline
       134th South Pipeline
       5600 West Pipeline
       Central Pipeline
       Wasatch Front Regional Pipeline right-of-way


JORDAN AQUEDUCT LICENSE AGREEMENT FEES
  Processing fee for all Jordan Aqueduct easement encroachments:
       District fee                                                            150.00         150.00
       U.S. Bureau of Reclamation fee                                          100.00         100.00




                                               14
                                                        Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                                SUMMARY OF FEES (CONTINUED)

                  WHOLESALE AND RETAIL WATER RATES AND FIRE LINES

WHOLESALE AND RETAIL WATER RATES
   Wholesale and retail water rates are reviewed and updated annually by a water rate consultant
   performing a comprehensive water rate study. The updated wholesale and retail water rates for this
   proposed budget and financial plan are included in a separate accompanying document.


METER BASE CHARGE/FLAT FEES
    Meter base charges/flat fees are based on meter capacity and charged monthly to wholesale
    member agencies and retail customers for each active meter, regardless of the actual volume of
    water taken through the meter. Meter base charges/flat fees for this proposed budget and financial
    plan are included in a separate accompanying document.


FEE IN LIEU OF TAX
     A fee approximating property tax is charged to customers outside the District's boundaries.


IN LIEU OF FEE
     A fee enabling the District to aquire water in-lieu of water interest conveyance. Calculated when paid.


RETAIL IMPACT AND CONNECTION FEES
                 FISCAL YEAR 2024/2025                                    FISCAL YEAR 2025/2026
 Meter    Impact     Meter    Install. Inspec.                    Impact      Meter   Install.  Inspec.
  Size     Fee        Fee       Fee      Fee                        Fee        Fee      Fee       Fee
  5/8"   $ 2,907 $      370 $     200 $    200                   $ 2,907 $       370 $    200 $     200
  3/4"      4,153       370       200      200                       4,153       370      200       200
   1"       8,305       456       200      200                       8,305       456      200       200
 1-1/2"    16,611       781       200      200                     16,611        781      200       200
   2"      26,577       841       200      200                     26,577        841      200       200
   3"      64,782       (a)       (a)      200                     64,782        (a)      (a)       200
   4"     118,767       (a)       (a)      200                    118,767        (a)      (a)       200
   6"     237,533       (a)       (a)      200                    237,533        (a)      (a)       200
   8"     472,575       (a)       (a)      200                    472,575        (a)      (a)       200
      Note: An impact fee for non-standard use can be calculated by the District using the following formula:
                               Estimated Peak Usage (gpm) x $4,153 = Impact Fee
             a) Meters larger than 2" are purchased independently by, and installed by, a contractor.



UPGRADING CONNECTION SIZE
(Refer to Connection Fees above for amounts)
     New connection fee is based on meter size
     Existing meter credit and impact fee are based on meter size


                                                     15
                                                  Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                                  SUMMARY OF FEES (CONTINUED)

                                   OTHER RETAIL CUSTOMER FEES
                                                                             2024/2025        2025/2026
                                                                               Fees             Fees
TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS
  Temporary connection fee:
      Actual charges for services rendered, cost of District's           $       202.00   $       202.00
      labor and materials, plus ten percent
  Deposit (if meter provided by customer)                                        300.00           300.00
  Deposit (if meter provided by District)                                      1,500.00         1,500.00


LINE EXTENSION
                                                                          Applicant        Applicant
   Cost of extending facilities
                                                                         pays all exp.    pays all exp.
   Deposit from applicant                                                    2% of cost    2% of cost


FIRE HYDRANTS, FIRE LINES, AND DETECTOR CHECK SYSTEMS
                                                                          Actual cost      Actual cost
   Installation and materials cost
                                                                         paid by cust.    paid by cust.
   Inspecting and maintaining fire lines:
        Initial installation inspection fee                                      200.00           200.00
        Annual fire line charges by meter size                      2"             5.96             7.50
                                                                    4"            36.90            46.40
                                                                    6"           107.20           134.78
                                                                    8"           228.44           287.21
                                                                   10"           410.82           516.51


RETAIL CUSTOMER ACCOUNT FEES
  Past due interest fee                                                           18%              18%
  Collection charge for past due service fee                                      20.00            20.00
  Service charge for dishonored checks                                            20.00            20.00
  Service restoration fee                                                         75.00            75.00
  Damage to existing connection (fee plus cost of labor and materials)            75.00            75.00
  Unauthorized use of services charge (fee plus water usage)                     200.00           200.00
  Water-efficient landscaping performance bond (per sq. foot)                      2.00             2.00




                                                 16
                                                  Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                        GENERAL EQUIPMENT FUND OVERVIEW




Beginning Balance July 1, 2025                                   $   500,000

SOURCES OF FUNDS:
Transfer from Revenue Stabilization Fund                             200,000
Budgeted 2024/2025 PayGo Capital Transfer                            700,000
Conservation Garden Park fundraising                                       0
Interest Income                                                       32,000
 Total Sources                                                   $   932,000



USES OF FUNDS:
                                                   Budgeted      Budgeted       Budget to Budget
 Account                    Description            2024/2025     2025/2026     $ Variance % Var.
140 6010               Conservation Assets         $         -   $         -   $         -     N/A
190 6010               IS Equipment                    162,000       162,000            0    0.0%
192 6010               Office Equipment                     0         46,000        46,000     N/A
194 6010               Telemetry Equipment              68,000       100,200        32,200   47.4%
196 6010               General Equipment               242,000       330,478        88,478   36.6%
198 6010               New Vehicles                    509,000       678,000       169,000   33.2%
 Total Uses                                        $   981,000   $ 1,316,678   $   335,678   34.2%

Ending Balance June 30, 2026                                     $   115,322




                                             17
                                                       Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                            GENERAL EQUIPMENT FUND DETAIL


                                                                                  Unit           Total
 Account                        Description                         Qty   Unit    Price         Amount

140 6010 Conservation Assets
          MOVED TO CAPITAL PROJECTS BUDGET                                                  $            -
                                                                                            $            - *

190 6010 IS Equipment
           Network servers                                           2    EA     $ 31,000   $     62,000
           Storage server                                            1    EA       50,000         50,000
           Security video server                                     1    EA       50,000         50,000
                                                                                            $    162,000

192 6010 Office Equipment
           Mezzanine cubicle furniture and shades (ADMIN)            4    EA     $ 11,500   $     46,000
                                                                                            $     46,000

194 6010 Telemetry Equipment
           Variable Frequency Drives for 3 sites                     3    EA     $ 33,400   $    100,200
                                                                                            $    100,200

196 6010 General Equipment
          Polaris Ranger Crew SP570 UTV (JVWTP)                      1    EA     $ 25,000   $     25,000
          Adv Metering Infrastructure base station (SYS OPS)         1    EA       46,000         46,000
          THM auto sampler/purge and trap (LAB)                      1    EA       72,000         72,000
          Equipment tilt deck trailer (MAINT)                        1    EA       15,000         15,000
          Dump bed trailer (MAINT)                                   1    EA       12,000         12,000
          Pressure washer (MAINT)                                    1    EA       20,000         20,000
          UTV incld. plow, sprayer, salter, light bar (MAINT)        1    EA       46,000         46,000
          Mobile 4000 lb gantry crane, trolley & hoist (MAINT)       1    EA       18,000         18,000
          Forklift for new WVC site (MAINT)                          1    EA       46,000         46,000
          Front-end loader lease to own (MAINT)                      1    EA       30,478         30,478
                                                                                            $    330,478

198 6010 New Vehicles
          Light duty pickup truck (MAINT)                            4    EA     $ 54,000   $    216,000
          Utility truck and attachments (MAINT)                      1    EA       70,000         70,000
          Service truck and body (MAINT)                             2    EA      196,000        392,000
                                                                                            $    678,000

Total General Equipment Fund Purchases                                                      $ 1,316,678

           * Fundraising donations will be applied to garden exhibits.




                                                  18
                                                                                 Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                        DEBT SERVICE SCHEDULE & LONG-TERM DEBT SUMMARY



Debt Service Payment Due:                                              October 1, 2025                 April 1, 2026               Total
                        Orig. Issue   Maturity   Outstanding
                         Amount        Date      Bal. 7/1/2025       Principal         Interest    Principal       Interest

2008 B1 Ref. Bonds* $64,665,000       10/1/37      $45,065,000   $    4,000,000    $     800,000   $     -     $     800,000   $   5,600,000

2009C Bonds
                          3,600,000   10/1/34        1,557,000          157,000              -           -               -          157,000
(Utah Brd of Wtr Res)

2016A&B Bonds &
                         63,920,000   10/1/46       32,310,000          715,000          807,750         -           789,875       2,312,625
Refunding Bonds

2017A Ref. Bonds          9,880,000   10/1/28        4,140,000          960,000          103,500         -            79,500       1,143,000


2017B Ref. Bonds         77,140,000   10/1/41       63,600,000        5,220,000        1,335,275         -         1,263,500       7,818,775


2019A Bonds              29,030,000   10/1/49       26,615,000          555,000          659,825         -           651,500       1,866,325

2021A Bonds &
                         61,855,000   10/1/51       52,380,000        2,985,000        1,126,000         -         1,051,375       5,162,375
Refunding Bonds

2024A Bonds              90,865,000   10/1/54       90,865,000        1,340,000        2,271,625         -         2,238,125       5,849,750


2025A Ref. Bonds         22,590,000   10/1/44       22,590,000               -           564,750         -           564,750       1,129,500


                                                                                                                                           -


    TOTAL                                        $339,122,000    $ 15,932,000      $ 7,668,725     $     -     $ 7,438,625     $ 31,039,350


                                                                         $23,600,725                    $7,438,625
    * Variable rate debt, interest paid monthly




                                                                        19
                                                               Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



                 SUMMARY OF CAPITAL PROJECT EXPENDITURES BUDGET



CP1 Category: Major rehabilitation or replacement of existing
facilities                                                                      $ 14,091,300
    Example Projects: JVWTP filter media replacement, distribution pipeline       (1,270,927) *
    replacement, rehabilitation and replacement on transmission system                             $ 12,820,373
    vaults, pump stations, HVAC systems, and wells.

CP2 Category: New facilities needed for compliance or functional
upgrades, but provide no new system capacity                                     12,841,561
    Example Projects: Vehicle and equipment storage building, generator           (2,666,533) *
    installations, system evaluation plans, and landscape improvements.                             10,175,028


CP3 Category: New water supply, treatment, conveyance, or
storage facilities which provide new system capacity                             59,752,997
    Example Projects: Design and construction of four new wells, Southwest        (1,415,078) *
    Aqueduct Reach 2, 11800 S 7000 W storage reservoir, and JVWTP filter                            58,337,919
    and chemical feed upgrades.

CP4 Category: Projects to serve lands currently outside current
District boundaries                                                               1,122,500
    Example Projects: WFRP right-of-way acquisition.                                     -     *
                                                                                                      1,122,500

CP5 Category: Landscape conversion projects                                       2,802,450
    Example Projects: Landscape conversion to water-wise.                         (2,262,000) *
                                                                                                       540,450


TOTAL OF ALL CATEGORIES (GROSS)                                                                    $ 90,610,808

    *amounts shown in red are reimbursements (MWDSLS, grants, etc.)                                $ (7,614,538)
TOTAL OF ALL CATEGORIES (NET)                                                                      $ 82,996,270




                             PROJECTED CAPITAL PROJECTS FUNDING
                                                                Replacement Reserve Fund           $ 13,360,823    14.8%
                                                                       Capital Projects Fund          4,149,104    4.6%
                                                                     Development Fee Fund             $386,000     0.4%
                                                                              Bond Proceeds         65,100,343     71.9%
                                                                   Project Reimbursements             7,614,538    8.4%
                                                                                                   $ 90,610,808 100.0%



                                                        20
                                             Financial Plan for the 2025/2026 Budget



              SUMMARY OF CAPITAL PROJECT EXPENDITURES BUDGET




              CAPITAL PROJECT EXPENDITURES
                               Gross Total $90,610,808



                                                             CP3: New Facilities / New
                                                             Capacity, $59,752,997

CP2: New Facilities / No New
Capacity, $12,841,561




                                                          CP4: Outside District
                                                          Boundaries, $1,122,500


           CP1: Existing Facilities                CP5: Landscape Conversion
           Replacement, $14,091,300                   Projects, $2,802,450




                                        21
                JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT
                          2025/2026 ADOPTED Water Rates Summary
                                                                                      4.9% AVE
                          WHOLESALE WATER RATES (NON-PUMPED)                          RATE ADJ
      MEMBER AGENCY                   PUMP            2024/2025     2025/2026      $       %
     (Rate per Acre Foot)             ZONES             RATES         RATES     CHANGE CHANGE
Bluffdale City Water                    JVWTP         $592.09       $598.12      $6.03    1.0%

Draper City                                             597.28       624.77      27.49    4.6%

Draper Irrigation (Water Pro)                           762.35       759.95      (2.40)   -0.3%

Granger-Hunter Impr. District          B North          616.30       633.95      17.65    2.9%
                                      C South,
Herriman City                                           696.93       686.57     (10.36)   -1.5%
                                      D South
Hexcel Corporation                     B North          461.25       497.50      36.25    7.9%

Kearns Improvement District            B North          624.50       671.82      47.32    7.6%

Magna Water District                   B North          438.72       453.45      14.73    3.4%

Midvale City Water                                      551.54       609.24      57.70    10.5%

Riverton City                          C South          513.76       527.47      13.71    2.7%
                                    B North/South,
City of South Jordan                                    597.28       627.28      30.00    5.0%
                                   C South, D South
City of South Salt Lake                                 440.83       456.08      15.25    3.5%

Taylorsville-Bennion Impr. Dist.       B North          436.66       451.16      14.50    3.3%

Utah Div. of Fac. Const. Mgmt.                          441.99       458.16      16.17    3.7%
                                    B North/South,
City of West Jordan                                     591.09       614.12      23.03    3.9%
                                   C South, D South

BLOCK 2 RATE                        Plus Pumping      1,146.44      1,197.49     51.05    4.5%
BCWTP RATE                                              531.75       535.90       4.15    0.8%

                                       ZONE                       PUMP ZONE SURCHARGE
                                      B North           $21.07       $22.01     $0.94      4.5%
                                      B South            35.62        36.73      1.11      3.1%
                                      C South            54.64        55.87      1.23      2.3%
                                      D South            85.08        80.54     (4.54)    -5.3%
                                      JVWTP              25.21        26.41      1.20      4.8%

                                    METER SIZE              METER BASE CHARGE (MONTHLY)
                                        4"              $25.00      $25.00   $0.00    0.0%
                                        6"               50.00       50.00     0.00   0.0%
                                        8"               78.00       78.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       10"              114.00      114.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       12"              168.00      168.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       14"              228.00      228.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       16"              300.00      300.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       18"              378.00      378.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       20"              462.00      462.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       24"              672.00      672.00     0.00   0.0%
                                       30"            1,050.00    1,050.00     0.00   0.0%
                  JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT
                           2025/2026 ADOPTED Water Rates Summary

                  RETAIL WATER RATES (Overall Average 11.2% Rate Increase)
     RETAIL SYSTEM                        TIER /   2024/2025   2025/2026      $        %
   (Rate per 1,000 Gal.)                   SIZE      RATES       RATES     CHANGE    CHANGE
    Non-Pumped Water Rate                 Tier 1      $1.70       $1.73      $0.03    1.8%
                                          Tier 2       2.58        2.78       0.20    7.8%
                                          Tier 3       4.20        4.75       0.55    13.1%
                                          Tier 4       5.19        6.64       1.45    27.9%
PUMP ZONE SURCHARGE / SERVICE AREA
  Zone C South (Riverton Foothills) Charged            0.17        0.17       0.00    0.0%
  Casto/Upper Willow Creek          all Tiers          0.75        0.75       0.00    0.0%
PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION
   Fireline Charges (Annual)                2"        $5.96       $7.50      $1.54    25.8%
                                            4"        36.90       46.40       9.50    25.7%
                                            6"       107.20      134.78      27.58    25.7%
                                            8"       228.44      287.21      58.77    25.7%
                                           10"       410.82      516.51     105.69    25.7%




                    TIER THRESHOLDS                     METER BASE CHARGES (MONTHLY)
Meter               1,000 gallon usage             2024/2025   2025/2026      $        %
 Size    Tier 1     Tier 2       Tier 3   Tier 4     RATES       RATES     CHANGE    CHANGE
 5/8"      1-6      7-16      17-37         38+       $3.00       $3.00     $0.00     0.0%
 3/4"      1-9      10-23     24-53         54+        3.00        3.00      0.00     0.0%
  1"      1-18      19-46    47-106        107+        4.00        4.00      0.00     0.0%
1-1/2"    1-36      37-92    93-212        213+        5.00        5.00      0.00     0.0%
  2"      1-58     59-147    148-339       340+        8.00        8.00      0.00     0.0%
  3"     1-140     141-359   360-827       828+       15.00       15.00      0.00     0.0%
  4"     1-257     258-658  659-1516      1517+       25.00       25.00      0.00     0.0%
  6"     1-515    516-1316 1317-3032      3033+       50.00       50.00      0.00     0.0%
  8"     1-1024   1025-2617 2618-6031     6032+       78.00       78.00      0.00     0.0%
Magna Pavement
 Management
    July 2025
Public Works Operations Provides the Following
Services:
• Road inspections (3-year rotation)
• Data management
• Mill and overlays of asphalt surface (2”)
• Repairs
   • Potholes
   • Crack sealing
   • Mastic patch
   • Asphalt patch
• Micropave (contracted)
• Slurry seals (contracted)



  Pavement Preservation
                                                                                    Magna Pavement Condition

                                                                                                 7%           11%

             Very Good    Good        Fair       Poor      Very Poor     Total          8%


Condition      11%         27%       46%          8%          7%         100%

Centerline                                                               89.66
               9.49       24.82      41.20       7.83        6.30                                                           27%
  Miles
  Area
 Square      1,578,247   3,944,509 6,693,808   1,193,034   1,085,343   14,494,941
  Feet                                                                                  46%




Average Road Segment OCI = 73.86
                                                                                    Very Good   Good   Fair    Poor   Very Poor




      Magna Current Condition
Magna Current Condition
Budget Forecast Assumptions:

• Does not consider concrete improvements, asphalt
  maintenance only.
• Class B&C road fund allocations to jurisdiction set at 2024
  allocations plus 3% annual growth (avg. statewide from
  past 5-yrs)
• Linear deterioration rate of asphalt vs. 20-yr service life
• Construction inflation of 6.5%
• Engineering reconstruction projects available every
  ~ 3 years up to approximately ~200,000 – 300,000 SF.




   2025-2045 Budget Forecast
                       White City,   Brighton Town,
                       18.15, 6%        1.53, 1%

                                              City of Kearns,
     Unincorporated                             94.26, 33%
    SLCo, 68.33, 24%




                                                 Copperton
                                                 , 2.80, 1%


                                           Emigration Canyon,
               Magna City,                     12.95, 4%
               89.66, 31%




GSLMSD Road Miles (July 2025)
                                                                                  Minimum                 Average                 Maximum
 Treatment Type
                                                                                  (yrs)                   (yrs)                   (yrs)
 Thin (< 2.5-inch) Hot-Mix Asphalt (HMA) Overlay                                  2                       8                       12

 Thick (≥ 2.5-inch) HMA Overlay                                                   6                       10                      17

 Single Chip Seal                                                                 1                       6                       12
 Double Chip Seal                                                                 4                       9                       15

 Thin (< 2.5-inch) Mill and Fill                                                  4                       8                       20

 Thick (≥ 2.5-inch) Mill and Fill                                                 6                       10                      17

 Cold-In-Place HMA Recycling                                                      5                       10                      20

 Crack Sealing                                                                    2                       3                       10
 Microsurfacing                                                                   4                       6                       10
 Source: Federal Highway Administration. (2017). Pavement performance measures and forecasting and the effects of maintenance and rehabilitation strategy on
 treatment effectiveness (Revised) (FHWA-HRT-17-095). U.S. Department of Transportation.
 https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/research/infrastructure/pavements/ltpp/17095/003.cfm




Treatment Performance
Pavement Preservation
                                                                                        Average PCI vs Budget
                                       90                                                                                                                                                       $4,500,000


                                       80                                                                                                                                                       $4,000,000


                                                                                                                                                                                                $3,500,000
                                       70

                     AVG NETWORK PCI                                                                                                                                                            $3,000,000
                                       60
                                                                                                                                                                                                $2,500,000
                                       50
                                                                                                                                                                                                $2,000,000
                                       40
                                                                                                                                                                                                $1,500,000

                                       30
                                                                                                                                                                                                $1,000,000

                                       20
*All of B&C road fund                                                                                                                                                                           $500,000
allocations may not be
available for asphalt                  10                                                                                                                                                       $-
treatment. Other
maintenance obligations
may exist.                              -                                                                                                                                                       $(500,000)
                                              Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5      Year 6      Year 8    Year 10    Year 12    Year 14    Year 16     Year 18    Year 20
     Supplemental Funding Needed $1,611,955 $1,086,133 $1,125,054 $1,119,260             $(3,412)   $1,159,227   $145,899   $353,226   $515,611   $496,695   $852,185   $1,098,086 $1,595,506
     B & C Funding                          $1,236,000 $1,276,746 $1,318,835 $1,362,312 $1,407,221 $1,453,612 $1,551,031 $1,654,978 $1,765,893 $1,884,240 $2,010,519 $2,145,261 $2,289,034
     Average PCI                              78.49      79.07      80.40      81.15      80.04       79.64       81.32      81.11      81.01      80.65      80.48       80.24      79.41




           2025-2045 Budget Forecast
                                                                            Pavement Treatment Area by Type(sq. ft.)
                                       1,600,000


                                       1,400,000


                                       1,200,000
             Pavement Area (sq. ft.)


                                       1,000,000


                                        800,000


                                        600,000


                                        400,000


                                        200,000


                                              0
                                                    Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Year 6      Year 8     Year 10     Year 12     Year 14     Year 16     Year 18     Year 20
Routine                                            350,460   1,002,831   1,196,735   1,493,572   1,389,051   1,469,817   1,386,713   1,243,148   1,237,467   1,513,841   1,322,742   1,326,485   1,137,945
Preventative (Slurry or Micropave) 1,062,000                 1,447,169   1,253,265   956,428     1,060,949   630,183     1,063,287   1,206,852   1,212,533   936,159     1,127,258   1,123,515   1,312,055
Rehabilitation (Mill and Overlay)                  394,000   723,550     723,550     223,550     223,550     723,550     223,550     223,550     223,550     223,550     223,550     223,550     223,550
Reconstruction                                     220,000      0           0        142,521        0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0           0




          2025-2045 Budget Forecast
                                   1,000,000
                                                                                        Supplemental Pavement Maintenance by Type
                                           900,000

                                           800,000
                 Pavement Treatment (SF)
                                           700,000

                                           600,000

                                           500,000

                                           400,000

                                           300,000

                                           200,000

                                           100,000

                                                0
                                                     Year 1   Year 2   Year 3     Year 4      Year 5   Year 6   Year 8   Year 10   Year 12   Year 14   Year 16   Year 18   Year 20
Contract Routine Maintenance                                    0        0          0           0        0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0
Contract Preventative Maintenance                      0      350000   350000     350000      350000     0      350000   350000    350000    350000    350000    350000    350000
Contract Rehabilitation                                0      500000   500000       0           0      500000     0        0         0         0         0         0         0
Contract Reconstruction                              220000     0        0      142520.7867     0        0        0        0         0         0         0         0         0




         2025-2045 Budget Forecast
• Supplemental mill & overlay until network achieves PCI or “good” condition
  in first 5 to 6 years, then is maintained through remaining 20-year period
  within Operations current level of service (for overlays)

• Equilibrium of “good” condition achieved with 1/5th of road network
  receiving maintenance each year

• Supplemental preventative maintenance suggested beyond Operations
  current level of service by approximately 20%




Model Takeaways
Interactive Web Map:
• Provide current pavement condition index (composite of 3-year data)
• Show planned Operations performed/managed:
    • Mill and Overlays (Red)
    • Micropave (Purple)
    • Slurry Seals (Blue)
• Includes recommended capital projects for MSD Engineering
    • Proposed (Orange)
    • Known funded capital projects (Green)

Link: Operations Pavement Management Plan




FY26-FY28 Pavement Plan
QUESTIONS?
​July 8, 2025:​​Number 1​

​ uestion​​: Could you provide an overarching explanation of how property taxes work in Utah,​
Q
​and how they apply to cities like Magna? I’m interested in your perspective on whatever aspects​
 ​you think would be most useful to understand.​

​Answer​​: Utah Property Taxes Explained:​

I​n Utah, property taxes are the responsibility of the county governments, which handle the​
 ​assessment, collection, and distribution of revenue to local entities, like Magna City.​

​Here's a breakdown of how taxes are collected & distributed:​

​1. ​Valuation​​:
            ​The County Assessor determines the fair market value (FMV) of all real and personal​
 ​property within their county.​
             ​Real property includes land and buildings, while personal property includes business​
  ​equipment.​
              ​The Assessor physically inspect and appraise properties at least every five years,​
   ​adjusting values between appraisals based on market data.​
               ​Residential properties are assessed at 100% of fair market value.​

​2. ​Taxable Value and Exemptions​​:
           ​Primary residences in Utah receive a 45% property tax exemption, meaning taxes are​
 ​calculated on only 55% of the property's fair market value. A calculation unique w/n the USA.​
            ​This exemption applies to the house and up to one acre of land used for residential​
  ​purposes.​
             ​Properties that are not primary residences (e.g., secondary homes, vacation homes) are​
   ​taxed at 100% of fair market value. A Utahn may claim only one primary residence.​

​3. ​Setting Tax Rates​​:
                ​Local taxing entities like school districts, cities, and special service districts determine​
 ​the tax rates based on their budget requirements. This is an annual determination.​
                 ​These rates are applied to the taxable value of the property to calculate the tax amount​
  ​due. The amount collected can not exceed the amount set by the taxing entity from the​
   ​previous year. If additional funding is needed, an entity must consider utilizing the Truth in​
    ​Taxation process as set out by the Utah Legislature.​
                  ​Utah's Truth in Taxation laws require taxing entities to hold public hearings if they plan to​
     ​increase property tax revenues. A process that politicians equate to “crawling across broken​
      ​glass.”​

​4. ​Calculation​​:
          ​Property tax is calculated by multiplying the taxable value of your property by each​
 ​taxing entity's tax rate and then summing those amounts.​


                                                                                                               ​1​
​5. ​Payment​​:
        ​Property tax bills are typically issued annually.​
         ​The County Treasurer sends out the final tax bill, collects payments, and distributes​
 ​revenue to the various taxing entities.​

                ​ roperty taxes help to pay for a variety of public services as required by the collecting​
                P
    ​entity. In Utah, additional property tax revenue is not a simple matter of raising property values​
     ​to increase revenue. Rather, the base property tax revenue is the​​same from the prior year​​.​
      ​Assuming everything else remains equal, an increase in property value would mean​​a decrease​
       ​in the tax rate​​, and therefore, the total dollar amount​​in taxes would​​stay the same​​. The taxing​
​process in Utah is one of the most unique in the United States, and residents find the process​
 ​difficult to appreciate and understand. I make this statement because a significant portion of the​
  ​residents in Magna believe the City is collecting a property tax. The City is NOT currently​
   ​collecting any property taxes.​




                                                                                                             ​2​
‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 2‬

‭ uestion‬‭: Where can I access Magna’s 2024–2025 City Budget, as well as the draft or working‬
Q
‭documents for 2025–2026? Are there also detailed expense reports for prior years or the‬
 ‭current year? Currently, the latest budget report is from 2023 and I have not been able to find‬
  ‭any expense reports.‬

‭Answer‬‭: Magna City’s Budget process explained:‬

‭ agna City’s budget, as well as finances, are handled by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal‬
M
‭Service District (MSD). Yearly financial reports and budget are published on the State’s‬
 ‭Auditor’s web site. One of the statements on the annual audited financial report outlines the‬
  ‭specific balance of each of the members of MSD. (See attached latest report). Magna City has‬
   ‭an administrative budget (part of the overall whole) that the City Council reviews monthly. (See‬
    ‭attached report as of May 31, 2025).‬

‭Utah Auditor Audit Report Link:‬‭https://auditor.utah.gov/audit-reports/‬

‭Exhibit A: Magna City Yearly Budget projection dated May 31, 2025 (6 pages)‬

‭Exhibit B: MSD FY 2025 Amended budget (15 pages)‬

‭Exhibit C: MSD Audit Report ending June 30 2024 (4 pages)‬

‭Exhibit D: Magna City FY26 Administration Budget Summary (1 page)‬




                                                                                                        ‭3‬
Exhibit A: Magna City Yearly Budget projection dated May 31, 2025
Magna City
Yearly Budget                                  91.70%                       5/31/2025
                                          Actual to           FY 2024
Revenues                                  5/31/2025            Budget               Projected
Sales taxes                                   5,811,297         5,450,000              6,400,000
Grants                                                -           200,000                      -
Transportation sales tax                        517,705           525,000                550,000
Class C road funds                            1,165,198         1,200,000              1,275,000
Corridor preservation funds                     112,500                 -                112,500
Business License                                 59,443            50,000                 60,000
Building permits                                834,553         1,250,000              1,000,000
Other permits                                         -            21,000                      -
Sewer and water permits                               -             5,000                      -
Zoning - land use permit                            200            75,000                    500
Engineering services                             53,682            50,000                 57,500
Planning service                                169,310           500,000                175,000
Storm drain fee                                       -                 -                      -
Code enforcement fines                            6,362             5,000                  6,500
Justice court fines                             194,179           175,000                195,000
Interest earnings                                62,485            75,000                 75,000
Miscellaneous                                         7            15,000                     10
Transfers in                                  1,060,009         1,060,009              1,060,009
Total Revenues                        $     10,046,930    $    10,656,009       $    10,967,019
Expenses - Administration
Wages                                          243,522            279,700                279,700
Employee Benefits                               70,352             79,030                 79,030
Awards, promotional & meals                        919              2,000                  2,000
Subscriptions/Memberships                        4,355             24,330                 24,330
Printing/Publications/Advertising                4,712              8,000                  8,000
Travel/Mileage                                   1,627              2,500                  2,500
Cell phone and telephone                         3,600                  -                  3,750
Office expense and supplies                        772              6,200   *              6,200
Computer equipment/Software                      4,600             10,000                 10,000
Attorney-Civil                                  50,094             75,000                 75,000
Lobbyist                                        26,000                  -                 26,000
Attorney-Land use                                    -             30,000                      -
Training & Seminars                              1,271             17,500                  1,500
Web page development/Maintenance                11,167             19,745                 15,000
Software/Streaming                              24,238              5,000   *             25,000
Payroll processing fees                            437              5,000                  1,000
Grant charged expense                                -                  -                      -
Communications                                      50             10,000                     50
Credit card and bank expenses                      325                  -                    500
Contribution/Special events                     90,222            172,000                100,000
Insurance                                       21,104             26,000                 22,000
Workers comp insurance                             130              2,500                    130
Postage                                          9,347             20,000                 11,000
Professional and technical                      17,334             89,504                 22,500
Grant related                                    1,000                  -                  1,000
SL (Client) County Support Services                  -             30,500                      -
Equipment/Computer purchases                         -              7,500                      -
Code enforcement mitigation                      7,347                  -                  7,347
Utilities                                        3,370                  -                  3,370
Rent                                             8,179            133,000                 15,000
Non classified expenses                              -              5,000                      -
Total Administration                  $       606,074     $     1,060,009       $       741,907
Budget Report Yearly                91.70%                      5/31/2025
Expenses - Transfers
Contribution to GF                 8,874,419        9,596,000         9,596,000
Transfer to Capital projects         112,500                -           112,500
Operational transfer out               4,297                -             4,297
Total Transfers                $   8,991,216   $    9,596,000   $    9,712,797

Total Expenses                 $   9,597,290   $   10,656,009   $   10,454,704

Surplus/Deficit                $   449,640     $           -    $     512,315
Magna City (Designated Fund)
Yearly Budget                        83.60%                      4/30/2025
                                Actual to          FY 2024
Revenues                        4/30/2025           Budget           Projected
Municipal Energy                         268                 -              2,500
Municipal Telecom                     37,892                 -             50,000
Municipal Power                      366,501                 -            425,000
Municipal Natural Gas                308,687                 -            400,000
Google franchise tax                  30,932                 -             35,000
ARPA funding                         579,035                 -            579,035
Interest earnings                    109,520                 -            125,000
Miscellaneous                          2,765                 -              5,000
Transfers in                           4,297                 -              4,297
Total Revenues              $      1,439,897   $             -   $     1,625,832

Expenses - Administration
ARPA Expense                         609,578                 -            609,578
Non classified expenses                    -                 -              5,000
Total Administration        $       609,578    $             -   $       614,578

Surplus/Deficit             $      830,319     $             -   $    1,011,254
Pleasant Green Cemetery
Yearly Budget                         91.70%                              5/31/2025
                                  Actual to          FY 2024
Revenues                          5/31/2025           Budget           Projected
Sale of lots                            30,679            20,000             32,500
Grave openings                           9,450            20,000             10,000
Other revenue                            8,644             4,500              9,127
Transfers In                                 -                 -                  -
Total Revenues                $         48,773   $       44,500    $        51,627
Expenses - Administration
Grave opening expenses                   9,225                 -              9,500
Cremation expenses                       3,450                 -              3,450
Office supplies                            549                 -                549
Propety tax                              7,536                 -              8,000
Travel/Mileage                               -                 -                  -
Computer equipment/Software                139             2,500                500
Professional and technical              53,362            42,000             55,000
Sundry charges                               -                 -                  -
Total Administration          $         74,261   $       44,500    $        76,999

Total Expenses                $         74,261   $       44,500    $        76,999

Surplus/Deficit               $      (25,488)    $             -   $      (25,372)
Communities that Care
Yearly Budget                            91.70%                              5/31/2025
                                     Actual to          FY 2024
Revenues                             5/31/2025           Budget           Projected
Intergovernmental                               -                 -                  -
Operating transfers in                          -                 -                  -
State Liquor allotment                     56,162            20,000             56,162
Grants -Substane Use Disorder              85,000           125,000             90,000
Grants - Magna CTC                              -           125,000                  -
Grants- Safety & Success                  370,403           500,000            370,403
Grants- Youth advocay                      31,885                 -             35,000
Donations                                       -                 -                  -
Other revenue                                   -                 -                  -
Total Revenues                   $       543,450    $      770,000    $       551,565

Expenses - Administration
Wages                                      53,801            65,000             58,000
Employee Benefits                          20,857            30,000             22,500
Awards                                      3,505                 -              3,750
Subscriptions\Memberships                       -                 -                  -
Travel/Mileage                             62,009                 -             62,500
Office Expense and Supplies                 1,504                 -              1,600
Training and seminars                           -                 -                  -
Contractors                                 6,708                 -              6,800
Programs (Afterschool)                      3,714                 -              4,000
Communications & PR                           959                 -              1,000
Events                                      7,677                 -              7,800
Youth coalition                             3,464                 -              3,500
Sponsorships                               14,033                 -             15,000
Safety and success youth court              2,923                 -              3,000
Youth court                                 5,427                 -              5,500
Safety & success                          193,183           500,000            220,000
Safety & success contractors               12,435                 -             12,500
Beer funds                                      -            20,000             20,000
Reserves                                        -            30,000             30,000
Total Administration             $       392,199    $      645,000    $       477,450


Total Expenses                   $       392,199    $      645,000    $       477,450

Surplus/Deficit                  $      151,251     $     125,000     $       74,115
Magna Community Reinvestment Area
Yearly Budget                   91.70%                                    5/31/2025
                                 Actual to           FY 2024
Revenues                         5/31/2025            Budget           Projected
Property taxes                               -                 -                   -
Other revenue                                -                 -                   -
Transfers In                                 -                 -                   -
Total Revenues               $               -   $             -   $               -

Expenses - Administration
General attorney                       20,220                  -             22,500
Arbor Park development                  3,308                  -              3,308
Professional and technical              2,750                  -              2,750
Utilities - water                           -                  -                  -
Sundry charges                              -                  -                  -
Total Administration         $         26,278    $             -   $        28,558


Total Expenses               $         26,278    $             -   $        28,558

Surplus/Deficit              $      (26,278)     $             -   $      (28,558)
Exhibit B: MSD FY 2025 Amended budget
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                             FY2025          FY2025
                                                                           2024 Approved    Approved        Amended
                                                          2023 Actuals        Budget         Budget          Budget                               Notes/Comments
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:

  Interest
   3600.100 Interest Earnings                              1,267,919.18       750,000.00    1,000,000.00    1,000,000.00
  Total Interest                                           1,267,919.18       750,000.00    1,000,000.00    1,000,000.00

  Miscellaneous revenue
   Miscellaneous other
    3600.880 Credit Card Service Fee                          45,760.00        50,000.00       50,000.00      50,000.00
    3600.900 Bond Proceeds                                          -                -               -              -
    3600.990 Other Revenues                                    -7,603.01             -               -              -
   Total Miscellaneous other                                  38,156.99        50,000.00       50,000.00      50,000.00

  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                 38,156.99        50,000.00       50,000.00      50,000.00

  Contributions and transfers
   3700.104 COVID Reimbursement Transfers In Emigration             -                -               -               -
   3700.105 COVID Reimbursement Transfers In Kearns                 -                -               -               -
   3700.107 COVID Reimbursement Transfers In White City             -                -               -               -
   3800.102 Contribution from Brighton                      1,092,375.55      909,800.00      909,800.00      909,800.00
   3800.103 Contribution from Copperton                       225,466.59      160,050.00      160,450.00      160,450.00
   3800.104 Contribution from Emigration Canyon               533,745.82      485,300.00      487,000.00      487,000.00
   3800.105 Contribution from Kearns                        9,635,519.80    8,871,000.00    8,871,000.00    8,871,000.00
   3800.106 Contribution from Magna                        10,059,181.49    8,415,632.00    8,415,632.00    8,415,632.00
   3800.107 Contribution from White City                    1,406,435.73    1,318,900.00    1,318,900.00    1,318,900.00
   3800.109 Contribution from Unincorporated               10,312,427.93    9,518,000.00    9,518,000.00    9,518,000.00
   3800.900 Beginning Fund Balance Appropriation                    0.00    7,749,689.49    7,581,230.18    7,581,230.18
  Total Contributions and transfers                       33,265,152.91    37,428,371.49   37,262,012.18   37,262,012.18

                                                                                                                         Present Value of total lease payments of $4,907,152.88 over 10 year
   Other Funding Source - NPV of Levoy Lease                                         -                      3,340,759.49 8 month. Used Zions Bank's loan rate of 6.88%.

 Total Revenue:                                           34,571,229.08    38,228,371.49   38,312,012.18   41,652,771.67

 Expenditures:
  Administration




                                                                                  05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                     FY2025           FY2025
                                                                    2024 Approved   Approved         Amended
                                                    2023 Actuals       Budget        Budget           Budget                                 Notes/Comments

                                                                                                                  Includes 3 new positions (Clerk Recorder, City Administrator, and
   4100.100 Admin Wages                              1,298,617.77    1,391,803.38   1,737,020.89     1,737,020.89 Assistant Controller) From Salary worksheet Column M
                                                                                                                  Life, STD, and Fitness (Columns U, W, X); Include $7,500 place holder
   4100.130 Employee Benefits                            9,665.46       13,406.96        14,004.20      14,004.20 for child care benefits.
   4100.133 Employee Reimbursement                         874.04             -                -              -
   4100.150 Social Security Tax                         82,687.70       86,291.81       107,695.30     107,695.30 From Salary worksheet Column N
   4100.160 Medicare                                    19,518.15       20,181.15        25,186.80      25,186.80 From Salary worksheet Column O
   4100.170 Unemployment Contribution                                   10,000.00        10,000.00      10,000.00 For 1 FTE
   4100.175 LTD                                          6,297.98        6,959.02         8,685.10       8,685.10 From Salary worksheet Column V
                                                                                                                  From Salary worksheet Columns R, S, T; includes 10% increase
   4100.180 Medical Insurance                          256,203.11      261,588.92       370,058.70     370,058.70 estimate
   4100.181 Retirement Contribution                    229,763.14      291,861.17       346,883.07     346,883.07 From Salary worksheet Column P, Q
   4100.190 FUTA                                           610.68             -                -              -
   4100.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals                  7,992.47        7,500.00        10,000.00      10,000.00 Long-term service awards
   4100.201 Uniform Allowance                              347.56        1,500.00         1,500.00       1,500.00 MSD shirts and hats
                                                                                                                  UASD $15,000; ICMA $1,000 x2; SHRM $250; GFOA $600; UCMA
                                                                                                                  $200; UACPA $700; Newspaper $250; CIA $500; Technology Net
   4100.210 Subscriptions/Memberships                   18,030.85       30,000.00        30,000.00      30,000.00 $200; Misc $1,250
                                                                                                                  Printed newsletter 2x/yr ($20,000). We are a City postcards
                                                                                                                  ($10,000), Booth ($500), Misc. printing ($5,000), Advertising and
   4100.220 Printing/Publications/Advertising           22,516.20       47,000.00        37,500.00      37,500.00 marketing ($2,000)
   4100.230 Travel/Mileage                               3,834.40        7,500.00         7,500.00       7,500.00 Pelorus, SHRM, UASD, UCMA, ULCT, Utah PIO Conf

   4100.240 Office Supplies and Services                25,140.38       25,000.00        25,000.00      25,000.00   For all paper, ink, misc. office supplies. Combined PDS and Admin.
   4100.241 Background checks                              724.45        1,000.00         1,000.00       1,000.00   New hire background checks
   4100.330 Training and Seminars                       23,690.09        8,000.00         8,000.00       8,000.00   Pelorus, SHRM, UASD, UCMA, ULCT, Utah PIO Conf
   4100.390 Payroll Processing Fees                     15,633.50       22,000.00        20,000.00      20,000.00   GoCo charges $1400/month=$16,800 plus processing fee

   4100.410 Communications                               3,802.65        3,000.00         1,500.00       1,500.00 Translation Services ($300), Design Services ($1,000), Istock ($200)

                                                                                                                   Picnic for stakeholders/elected officials ($500), Media lunch/tour
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events                 1,296.43        2,500.00         2,500.00       2,500.00 ($200), Event booth handouts/information ($500)
   4100.470 Credit card and Bank Expenses               49,531.95       50,000.00        52,000.00      52,000.00 Includes $2,000 for UsBank administration fee

                                                                                                                  Full Liability, Property, and Auto policies for the MSD with Utah
   4100.510 Insurance - Auto, Liability, Property       27,300.18       29,750.00        30,450.00      30,450.00 Trust (paid Jul 1) 35% of $85,000 plus $2,000 for deductibles.
                                                                                                                  Full WC policy with Utah Trust for all MSD employees 35% of
   4100.520 Insurance Workers Comp                      11,667.14        7,000.00         7,000.00       7,000.00 $20,000



                                                                           05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                    FY2025           FY2025
                                                                 2024 Approved     Approved         Amended
                                                 2023 Actuals       Budget          Budget           Budget                                Notes/Comments
                                                                                                                 Newsletter 2x/yr ($14,000), We are a City postcards ($6,000), Misc.
   4100.590 Postage                                  15,925.23       25,000.00        25,000.00        25,000.00 postage $5,000
   4100.600 Sundry Charges                                            3,000.00         3,000.00         3,000.00
   4100.605 Earthquake related expenses                   0.00             -                -                -
   4100.650 UTA van pool                             10,919.96       11,112.00         8,800.00         8,800.00 From Salary worksheet Column Y.
   4100.651 Tuition Reimbursement                    3,186.51        15,000.00        15,000.00        15,000.00
   4100.740 Equipment Purchases                           -                -                -                -
   4155.190 FUTA                                     1,547.80              -                -                -
  Total Administration                           2,147,325.78     2,377,954.40     2,905,284.07     2,905,284.07

  COVID Related Expenses
   4100.601 COVID 19 expenses                             -                -                -                -
   4100.602 CARES 2 Supplies & Equipment                  -                -                -                -
   4120.340 Attorney - COVID CARES                        -                -                -                -
  Total COVID Related Expenses                            -                -                -                -

  Contracted Services
   Interlocal other
    4110.700 Fleet Vehicle Replacement              34,094.00        40,000.00        40,000.00        40,000.00
   Total Interlocal other                           34,094.00        40,000.00        40,000.00        40,000.00

   Interlocal
                                                                                                                 For Economic Development services that will continue to be
    4110.800 Interlocal-Economic Development       110,000.00        40,000.00        40,000.00        40,000.00 performed by SLCO
   Total Interlocal                                110,000.00        40,000.00        40,000.00        40,000.00

   Animal services
    4110.812 Animal Services Brighton                 3,900.84        4,551.00         5,109.00        5,109.00
    4110.813 Animal Services Copperton                7,664.45        8,641.00         9,731.00        9,731.00
    4110.814 Animal Services Emigration Canyon       13,703.14       15,312.00        17,192.00       17,192.00
    4110.815 Animal Services Kearns                 347,939.15      383,528.00       431,516.00      431,516.00
    4110.816 Animal Services Magna                  277,104.32      305,470.00       343,693.00      343,693.00
    4110.817 Animal Services White City              52,154.01       57,675.00        64,851.00       64,851.00
    4110.819 Animal Services Unincorporated        108,389.09       111,216.00       124,604.00      124,604.00
   Total Animal services                           810,855.00       886,393.00       996,696.00      996,696.00

   DA Prosecution
    4110.822 DA Prosecution Brighton                  1,316.13        2,200.00 $       2,086.53 $       2,086.53
    4110.823 DA Prosecution Copperton                 2,536.08        4,268.00 $       4,047.86 $       4,047.86



                                                                        05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                                 FY2025            FY2025
                                                                            2024 Approved       Approved          Amended
                                                            2023 Actuals       Budget            Budget            Budget                              Notes/Comments
    4110.824 DA Prosecution Emigration Canyon                    4,479.85        7,524.00   $      7,135.92   $      7,135.92
    4110.825 DA Prosecution Kearns                             112,293.08      188,578.00   $    178,851.35   $    178,851.35
    4110.826 DA Prosecution Magna                               89,446.70      150,211.00   $    142,463.28   $    142,463.28
    4110.827 DA Prosecution White City                          16,898.90       28,379.00   $     26,915.24   $     26,915.24
    4110.829 DA Prosecution Unincorporated                     35,029.26        58,826.00         55,791.82         55,791.82
   Total DA Prosecution                                       262,000.00       439,986.00        417,292.00        417,292.00

   PWE Engineering - Planning & Development Services
                                                                                                                              PWE budget is in the Capital Fund. $600,000 from the budget is
    4110.770 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs                                   600,000.00        600,000.00        600,000.00 allocated here for Development Services
    4110.772 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs Brighton
    4110.773 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs Copperton
    4110.774 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs Emigration
    4110.775 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs Kearns
    4110.776 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs Magna
    4110.777 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs White City
    4110.779 Engineering Planning & Dev Svcs Unincorporat
    4110.830 Engineering Svcs                                   11,438.26
    4110.832 Engineering Svcs Brighton                          29,146.46             -                 -                 -
    4110.833 Engineering Svcs Copperton                        121,150.66             -                 -                 -
    4110.834 Engineering Svcs Emigration Canyon                179,315.46             -                 -                 -
    4110.835 Engineering Svcs Kearns                           427,016.54             -                 -                 -
    4110.836 Engineering Svcs Magna                            797,360.63             -                 -                 -
    4110.837 Engineering Svcs White City                       139,240.33             -                 -                 -
    4110.839 Engineering Svcs Unincorporated                   314,782.03             -                 -                 -
   Total Engineering - Planning & Development Services      2,019,450.37       600,000.00        600,000.00        600,000.00

   Indigent legal
    4110.842 Indigent Legal Brighton                              982.00           982.00   $      1,021.28   $      1,021.28
    4110.843 Indigent Legal Copperton                           1,885.00         1,885.00   $      1,960.40   $      1,960.40
    4110.844 Indigent Legal Emigration Canyon                   3,334.00         3,334.00   $      3,467.36   $      3,467.36
    4110.845 Indigent Legal Kearns                             83,505.00        83,505.00   $     86,845.23   $     86,845.23
    4110.846 Indigent Legal Magna                              66,515.00        66,515.00   $     69,175.63   $     69,175.63
    4110.847 Indigent Legal White City                         12,557.00        12,557.00   $     13,059.29   $     13,059.29
    4110.849 Indigent Legal Unincorporated                     26,045.00        26,045.00         27,086.81         27,086.81
   Total Indigent legal                                       194,823.00       194,823.00        202,616.00        202,616.00

   Justice courts
    4110.852 Justice Courts Brighton                            9,756.14         9,288.56 $        8,703.56 $        8,703.56



                                                                                   05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                                     FY2025              FY2025
                                                                               2024 Approved        Approved            Amended
                                                               2023 Actuals       Budget             Budget              Budget                               Notes/Comments
    4110.853 Justice Courts Copperton                              2,163.87        18,019.90   $      16,706.93    $      16,706.93
    4110.854 Justice Courts Emigration Canyon                      2,193.79        31,767.84   $      29,549.55    $      29,549.55
    4110.855 Justice Courts Kearns                               234,250.52       797,157.70   $     740,112.42    $     740,112.42
    4110.856 Justice Courts Magna                                305,538.78       632,748.06   $     589,528.51    $     589,528.51
    4110.857 Justice Courts White City                            20,041.93       119,824.23   $     111,293.84    $     111,293.84
    4110.859 Justice Courts Unincorporated                       526,054.97       248,567.23   $     230,839.21    $     230,839.21
   Total Justice courts                                         1,100,000.00    1,857,373.52        1,726,734.00        1,726,734.00

   Parks maintenance
    4110.860 Parks Maintenance - Tree Removal & Replacement        22,645.00      100,000.00           50,000.00           50,000.00   Copperton park tree replacements
    4110.861 Parks Maintenance - Neighborhood & Pocket parks       16,339.56       50,000.00           50,000.00           50,000.00
    4110.863 Parks Maintenance Copperton                          196,701.96      148,944.00          148,944.00          148,944.00   SLCo Parks Budget
    4110.865 Parks Maintenance Kearns                             429,414.53      575,862.00          475,862.00          475,862.00   SLCo Parks Budget
    4110.866 Parks Maintenance Magna                              355,008.26      329,325.00          270,244.00          270,244.00   SLCo Parks Budget
    4110.867 Parks Maintenance White City                         169,068.29      207,367.00          207,367.00          207,367.00   SLCo Parks Budget
   4110.869 Parks Maintenance Unincorporated                       98,748.70             -            100,000.00          100,000.00   SLCo Parks Budget
   Total Parks maintenance                                     1,287,926.30     1,411,498.00        1,302,417.00        1,302,417.00


   PW operations
    4110.870 PW Operations                                       -129,692.00   11,282,418.00       11,755,993.00       11,755,993.00
    4110.872 PW Operations Brighton                                 3,094.20             -                   -                   -
    4110.873 PW Operations Copperton                               37,139.74             -                   -                   -
    4110.874 PW Operations Emigration Canyon                      323,889.27             -                   -                   -
    4110.875 PW Operations Kearns                               4,027,844.17             -                   -                   -
    4110.876 PW Operations Magna                                2,925,308.67             -                   -                   -
    4110.877 PW Operations White City                             337,617.95             -                   -                   -
    4110.879 PW Operations Unincorporated                       2,125,560.18             -                   -                   -
    4110.880 Survey and Addressing                                                       -                   -                   -
    4110.882 Surveyor-Brighton                                      1,500.00             -                   -                   -
    4110.883 Surveyor-Copperton                                                          -                   -                   -
    4110.884 Surveyor-Emigration                                      240.00             -                   -                   -
    4110.885 Surveyor-Kearns                                          750.00             -                   -                   -
    4110.886 Surveyor-Magna                                         5,370.00             -                   -                   -
    4110.887 Surveyor-White City                                      150.00             -                   -                   -
    4110.889 Surveyor and Addressing-Unincorporated                 3,990.00             -                   -                   -




                                                                                      05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                             FY2025           FY2025
                                                                           2024 Approved    Approved         Amended
                                                           2023 Actuals       Budget         Budget           Budget                              Notes/Comments
                                                                                                                          5% budget increase from year to year (FY2025 increase - 2.5%)
                                                                                                                          $1,850,000 from 2023 budget was allocated to Magna Main.
                                                                                                                          $225,000 from 2024 budget was allocated to Unincorporated for
    4110.900 PW Operations B&C Contracted MX                                3,900,000.00    2,152,500.00     2,152,500.00 1300 E project with Sandy.
    4110.909 PW Operations B&C-Unincorporated
    4110.999 PW Operations B&C Contracted MX Contingency       82,159.78      250,000.00      250,000.00       250,000.00 $250K for “Maintenance Contingency.”
   Total PW operations                                      9,744,921.96   15,432,418.00   14,158,493.00    14,158,493.00

  Total Contracted Services                                15,564,070.63   20,902,491.52   19,484,248.00    19,484,248.00

  Professional services
   4120.310 Attorney-Civil                                    193,489.93      300,000.00       400,000.00     400,000.00
   4120.3102 Attorney-Civil Brighton                               916.5             -                -              -
   4120.3103 Attorney-Civil Copperton                           1,250.00             -                -              -
   4120.3104 Attorney-Civil Emigration Canyon                  12,557.00             -                -              -
   4120.3105 Attorney-Civil Kearns                             93,865.04             -                -              -
   4120.3106 Attorney-Civil Magna                              40,295.92             -                -              -
   4120.3107 Attorney-Civil White City                         11,730.50             -                -              -
   4120.3109 Attorney-Civil Unincorporated                         192.5             -                -              -
   4120.315 Attorney-Bond Related                                                    -                -              -
   4120.320 Attorney-MET                                                             -                -              -
   4120.325 Attorney-Legislation                                9,417.00       30,000.00        30,000.00      30,000.00 For lobbyist

   4120.330 Attorney-Land Use                                  13,741.30      100,000.00       100,000.00     100,000.00 Includes $5K to BTJD for ALJ services, balance to Smith Hartvigsen
   4120.331 Attorney-4700 S                                                          -                -              -
   4120.3312 Attorney-Land Use Brighton                                              -                -              -
   4120.3313 Attorney-Land Use Copperton                        2,642.50             -                -              -
   4120.3314 Attorney-Land Use Emigration                       3,053.50             -                -              -
   4120.3315 Attorney-Land Use Kearns                           5,357.00             -                -              -
   4120.3316 Attorney-Land Use Magna                            8,250.50             -                -              -
   4120.3317 Attorney-Land Use White City                          20.00             -                -              -
   4120.3319 Attorney-Land Use Unincorporated                                        -                -              -
   4120.335 Attorney - Olympia Hills                                 -               -                -              -
                                                                                                                         $155,000 for UFA EM Planner and $20,000 place holder for Misc
   4100.700 Other Professional Charges & UFA                  63,246.50        33,500.00       175,000.00     175,000.00 Professional Services
                                                                                                                         Increased budget to accommodate for single federal audits required
   4130.350 Budget and Auditing                               32,050.00        60,000.00        60,000.00      60,000.00 for ARPA.
  Total Professional services                                492,075.69       523,500.00       765,000.00     765,000.00




                                                                                  05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                  FY2025           FY2025
                                                                 2024 Approved   Approved         Amended
                                                 2023 Actuals       Budget        Budget           Budget                               Notes/Comments
  Information Technology
   4100.250 Printer Maintenance                      5,216.51         7,500.00         7,500.00       7,500.00 Printer maintenance

                                                                                                              Pelorus (12.5K); Mailchimp ($343); Canva ($120/yr.), municode
                                                                                                              ($8,000); Zoom ($2,600); Docusign ($3,000); Compensation Survey
   4100.255 Computer Software (Admin Only)          22,525.55        45,000.00        35,000.00     35,000.00 ($200); Emergency notification software, Misc ($2,500)
   4100.280 Phone
   4140.360 Web Page Development                     4,305.01         7,500.00         7,500.00      7,500.00 MSD website annual fee (~$5,400) and support (Civic Plus)
   4140.380 Information Technology                 116,573.32       125,000.00       125,000.00    125,000.00 SLCounty IT and includes Annual Office 365 ($10,000)
                                                                                                              Computer and Equipment replacement, monitors, docking stations,
   4140.740 Computer & Accessories Replacement      47,043.58        50,000.00        50,000.00     50,000.00 drone equipment etc.
                                                                                                              Verizon phones for all MSD… includes additional phones for planner.
   4155.280 Phone                                   19,653.49        23,000.00        25,000.00     25,000.00 Cost is about $1,600/mo x 12 = $19,200
  Total Information Technology                     215,317.46       258,000.00       250,000.00    250,000.00

  Planning and development
                                                                                                                 Includes one new position (Long-Range Planner/Economic
   4155.100 Wages                                 2,586,159.23    3,422,768.68   3,498,589.24     3,498,589.24   Development Specialist) From Salary worksheet Column M
   4155.110 Overtime Wages                                           18,843.00      20,000.00        20,000.00   $15,000 overtime plus FICA, Medicare, URS
   4155.130 Employee Benefits                        17,103.89       12,824.63      13,482.29        13,482.29   Life, STD, and Fitness (Columns U, W, X)
   4155.150 Social Security Tax                     146,539.86      212,211.66     216,912.53       216,912.53   From Salary worksheet Column N
   4155.160 Medicare                                 34,271.45       49,630.15      50,729.54        50,729.54   From Salary worksheet Column O
   4155.170 Unemployment Contribution                10,546.68             -        12,000.00        12,000.00
   4155.175 LTD                                      12,962.59       16,218.26      17,031.45        17,031.45From Salary worksheet Column V
                                                                                                              From Salary worksheet Columns R, S, T; includes 10% increase
   4155.180 Medical Insurance                       524,427.09      816,311.13       767,804.66    767,804.66 estimate
   4155.181 Retirement Contribution                 469,809.50      696,395.05       680,235.96    680,235.96 From Salary worksheet Column P, Q
   4155.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals                  39.85        7,500.00         7,500.00      7,500.00
                                                                                                              membership for PDS staff; we also added $550 for IEAC for
   4155.210 Subscriptions/Memberships                 4,096.40       12,000.00        13,000.00     13,000.00 Stormwater per Trent, Economic development certs
                                                                                                              Increased this year with the travel for the Economic Development
                                                                                                              Manager and LR Planner and includes travel for 2 employees to
   4155.230 Travel                                   28,364.01       45,000.00        67,500.00     67,500.00 Microsoft365 conference.

   4155.250 Vehicle Supplies and Maintenance         31,086.32       50,000.00        50,000.00     50,000.00 This amount should be sufficient even with increased fuel costs
   4155.255 Computer Accessories                                           -                -             -   Moved to IT Budget
                                                                                                              Includes about $9k for Building and Code Enforcement NEC code,
                                                                                                              electronic, and ICC testing books; and includes training for 2
   4155.330 Training and Seminars                    27,399.14       42,500.00        52,500.00     52,500.00 employees to Microsoft365 conference.



                                                                        05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                           FY2025           FY2025
                                                                          2024 Approved   Approved         Amended
                                                          2023 Actuals       Budget        Budget           Budget                                 Notes/Comments
                                                                                                                        Cityworks ($75,000), ESRI ($50,000), Smartsheet ($1,800),
   4155.370 Software/Streaming (PDS)                         245,472.30      210,000.00       250,000.00    250,000.00 Bluebeam ($1,600); future document mgmt software
                                                                                                                       Hard hat, vest, safety glasses, gloves, backpack, and flashlights for all
   4155.460 Safety Equipment and Uniforms                      1,532.85        6,000.00        12,000.00     12,000.00 staff; for PDS staff, Bulletproof vests
   4155.480 Department Supplies                                    -                -                -             -
   4155.495 Planning Interlocal Kearns Township                    -                -                -             -
                                                                                                                        We need to keep $100K in our budget as per Master Interlocal
   4155.498 Planning Interlocal Unincorporated Township                      100,000.00       100,000.00    100,000.00 Agreement
                                                                                                                       Need to budget for effective outreach and businesses and
                                                                                                                       community engagement through the new Economic Development
   4155.500 Outreach                                            556.45        50,000.00        50,000.00     50,000.00 position

                                                                                                                       Full Liability, Property, and Auto policies for the MSD with Utah
   4155.510 Insurance - Auto, Liability, Property             51,667.19       55,250.00        56,550.00     56,550.00 Trust (paid Jul 1) 65% of $85,000 plus $2,000 for deductibles.
                                                                                                                       Full WC policy with Utah Trust for all MSD employees 65% of
   4155.520 Insurance Workers Comp                             7,344.67       13,000.00        13,000.00     13,000.00 $20,000
   4155.590 Postage                                            7,222.86       12,500.00        12,500.00     12,500.00 Code Enforcement and Addressing cert letters
                                                                                                                       Cityworks ($5,000), ESRI ($5,000); other professional services for
                                                                                                                       PDS (geotechnical reviews and plan reviews $100,000); GCP
   4155.700 Professional Fees                                165,823.00      175,000.00       210,000.00    210,000.00 ($12,000)
   4155.705 Professional FeesKearns                                   0             -                -             -
   4155.715 Code Enforcement clean up                         30,198.88

   4155.740 Non-computer Equipment Purchases                  18,430.50       42,500.00      29,500.00        29,500.00 Lease of 2 new printers and other miscellaneous equipment.
  Total Planning and development                          4,421,054.71     6,066,452.57   6,200,835.67     6,200,835.67

  Non-Classified
   4100.750 Maintenance of the Storm Drain System              3,000.00        3,000.00         3,000.00      3,000.00
   4100.760 Maintenance of Roads and Streets                                        -                -             -
   4100.770 Sidewalk improvement grant                        23,305.00       20,000.00        25,000.00     25,000.00
   4840.850 Contingent Fund                                    7,666.00       25,000.00        25,000.00     25,000.00
                                                                                                                       Based on leasing 18,879 sqft at $23.00 per sqft. FY2025 budget
                                                                                                                       amount includes 5 months of concessions. Annual increase is 3%.
                                                                                                                       Full Amount of lease and it's offset will need to be included in the
   4840.970 Rent                                             180,420.66      185,000.00       253,293.00    253,293.00 budget.
   4840.975 Facilities Charges                                 5,506.90        5,000.00         5,000.00      5,000.00

                                                                                                                       Includes all one-time equipment costs for new facility. This will be
   4840.9XX New Facility and equipment - one time                                             400,000.00    400,000.00 paid out from the Building Fund which currently has $3M.



                                                                                 05/08/2025
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
FY 2025 Amended Budget
General Fund

                                                                                  FY2025            FY2025
                                                                2024 Approved    Approved          Amended
                                                2023 Actuals       Budget         Budget            Budget                               Notes/Comments

                                                                                                               One-time IT and AV hardware costs for new facility (2 conference
                                                                                                               rooms need AV; 2 other conference with just TV and owl; wiring for
                                                                                                               TV’s GM, AGM, and DOF office). This will be paid out from the
   4840.902 IT and AV hardware - one time                                           125,000.00      125,000.00 Building Fund which currently has $3M.
                                                                                                               ACCT will now be paid from the admin budgets of jurisdictions that
   4840.980 ACCT Contribution                       20,000.00       26,000.00              -               -   have community councils.
  Total Non-Classified                            239,898.56       264,000.00       836,293.00      836,293.00

  Debt service
   4100.800 Debt Origination Fees                         -               -               -                 -
   4840.999 Interest Expense                     2,203,376.50    2,204,751.00    2,204,971.00      2,204,971.00 Per Final Debt Service Schedule
  Total Debt service                             2,203,376.50    2,204,751.00    2,204,971.00      2,204,971.00


  Transfers
   4900.920 Contribution to Brighton              477,150.00       470,850.00      472,024.18        472,024.18
   4900.930 Contribution to Copperton             181,000.00       181,000.00      170,161.18        170,161.18
   4900.940 Contribution to Emigration Canyon     243,600.00       254,050.00      244,611.18        244,611.18
   4900.950 Contribution to Kearns                558,000.00     1,002,200.00    1,083,361.18      1,083,361.18
   4900.960 Contribution to Magna                 932,680.00     1,166,884.00    1,060,009.00      1,060,009.00
   4900.970 Contribution to White City            384,989.00       444,731.00      502,892.18        502,892.18
   4900.990 Contribution to Unincorporated        568,488.00       611,507.00      632,321.54        632,321.54

   4900.991 Trans to Capital Projects                                     -               -                 -   $1.85M transferred to Capital Fund in 2023 for Magna Main project.
  4900.995 Trans to Office Building Fund                  -      1,500,000.00    1,500,000.00      1,500,000.00 $3M in the Building Fund ($1.5M in 2023 and 2024).
  Total Transfers                                3,345,907.00    5,631,222.00    5,665,380.44      5,665,380.44

                                                                                                                Present Value of total lease payments of $4,907,152.88 over 10 year
Levoy Lease                                                               -                -       3,340,759.49 8 month. Used Zions Bank's loan rate of 6.88%.

 Total Expenditures:                            28,629,026.33   38,228,371.49   38,312,012.18     41,652,771.67

Total Change In Net Position                     5,942,202.75            0.00            (0.00)           (0.00)




                                                                       05/08/2025
                                                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                                   FY 2025 Approved Budget
                                                                         Capital Projects
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Budgeting Worksheet
Capital Fund

                                                                                                           FY2025
                                                                                     2024 Approved        Approved
                                                                     2023 Actual        Budget             Budget       Budgeting Notes
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Intergovernmental revenue
   Intergovernmental Other
    3100.387 SB 234 Funds from UDOT                                            -                  0                 0
    3100.388 SB 277 Funds from UDOT                                            -                  0                 0
    3100.850 Grant Revenue                                            2,980,844.00        6,198,463         4,687,226
    3100.851 Grant Revenue Paid Directly to Contractors                        -                  0        26,838,948
   Total Intergovernmental Other                                      2,980,844.00        6,198,463        31,526,174


  Total Intergovernmental revenue                                     2,980,844.00        6,198,463        31,526,174

  Interest
   3100.600 Interest Earnings                                         1,293,451.29          750,000         1,500,000
  Total Interest                                                      1,293,451.29          750,000         1,500,000

  Miscellaneous revenue
   Miscellaneous other
    3100.900 Other Financing Source (ARPA + WVC)                                          2,445,100         3,020,679
    3100.901 Other Governmental Revenue                                         -                 0                 0
    3100.902 General Fund Engineering
    3100.910 Bond Proceeds                                                      -                 0                 0
   Total Miscellaneous other                                                    -         2,445,100         3,020,679

  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                                   -         2,445,100         3,020,679

  Contributions and transfers




                                                                           05/08/2025
                                                     Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                              FY 2025 Approved Budget
                                                                    Capital Projects
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Budgeting Worksheet
Capital Fund

                                                                                                      FY2025
                                                                                2024 Approved        Approved
                                                                2023 Actual        Budget             Budget        Budgeting Notes
                                                                                                                 $1.85M from 2023 contracted mx and $800K
   3100.930 Transfer In                                                    -                 0         2,650,000 from 2024 contracted mx
   3100.935 Transfer in from- Kearns SB 136                                -                 0                 0
   3100.936 Transfer in from- Magna SB 136                                 -                 0                 0
   3100.950 Use of Fund Surplus                                                     18,744,190        13,557,869
   3100.9501 Use of Fund Surplus - Bond Proceeds                           -        11,029,183         8,792,018
   3100.953 Use of Restricted Funds Copperton                              -                 0                 0
   3100.955 Use of Restricted Funds Kearns                                 -                 0                 0
  Total Contributions and transfers                                        -        29,773,373        24,999,887

 Total Revenue:                                                  4,274,295.29       39,166,936        61,046,740

 Expenditures:
   Engineering Srvs/Projects
                                                                                                                 $600,000 from PWE's budget allocated for
    97.4110.830 Engineering Srvs/Projects                                            3,432,434         2,831,633 Development Services in in fund 10
    97.4110.832 Engineering Srvs Brighton                                                    0                 0
    97.4110.833 Engineering Srvs Copperton                                                   0                 0
    97.4110.834 Engineering Srvs Emigration Canyon                                           0                 0
    97.4110.835 Engineering Srvs Kearns                                                      0                 0
    97.4110.836 Engineering Srvs Magna                                                       0                 0
    97.4110.837 Engineering Srvs White City                                                  0                 0
    97.4110.839 Engineering Srvs Unincorporated                                              0                 0
   Total Engineering Srvs/Projects                                         -         3,432,434         2,831,633

Improvements
   Engineering Project
    5510.613 Engineering- Copperton                                        -                  0                 0
    5510.614 Engineering- Emigration Township                                                 0                 0
    5510.615 Engineering- Kearns                                           -                  0                 0



                                                                      05/08/2025
                                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                                    FY 2025 Approved Budget
                                                                          Capital Projects
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Budgeting Worksheet
Capital Fund

                                                                                                            FY2025
                                                                                      2024 Approved        Approved
                                                                      2023 Actual        Budget             Budget        Budgeting Notes
    5510.616 Engineering- Magna                                                  -                  0                 0
    5510.617 Engineering- White City                                             -                  0                 0
    5510.619 Engineering- Unincorp                                               -                  0                 0
   Total Engineering Project                                                     -                  0                 0

   Improvements Project
    5510.625 Improvements- Kearns                                                -                  0                 0
   Total Improvements Project                                                    -                  0                 0

   Storm Drain Improvements
    5510.756 Storm Drain- Magna                                                  -                  0                 0
   Total Storm Drain Improvements                                                -                  0                 0

   Sidewalks/Roads
    5510.763 Sidewalk/Roads Copperton
    5510.765 Sidewalk/Roads Kearns                                               -                  0                 0
    5510.767 Sidewalk/Roads White City                                           -                  0                 0
   Total Sidewalks/Roads                                                         -                  0                 0

  Total Improvements                                                             -                  0                 0

  Projects
   Projects other
    5610.300 Bond Issuance Costs                                               -                   0                 0
    5610.757 Storm Drain- White City                                           -                   0                 0
    5610.762 Carryover Projects Brighton                                  1,211.65           200,000           298,877
    5610.763 Carryover Projects Copperton                                428,634.71        1,252,776         1,544,162
    5610.764 Carryover Projects Emigration Township                      308,407.98        4,023,800         4,518,842
    5610.7641 Carryover Projects Direct Grant Emigration                                           0                 0
    5610.765 Carryover Projects Kearns                                 2,138,353.28        7,031,774         8,298,475


                                                                            05/08/2025
                                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                                    FY 2025 Approved Budget
                                                                          Capital Projects
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Budgeting Worksheet
Capital Fund

                                                                                                            FY2025
                                                                                      2024 Approved        Approved
                                                                      2023 Actual        Budget             Budget       Budgeting Notes
    5610.7651 Carryover Projects Direct Grant Kearns                                               0        15,328,699
    5610.766 Carryover Projects Magna                                  3,951,121.95        6,166,304         4,180,165
    5610.7661 Carryover Projects Direct Grant Magna                                                0        10,102,074
    5610.767 Carryover Projects White City                               347,564.10        4,651,010         4,964,527
    5610.7671 Carryover Projects Direct Grant White City                                                     1,408,175
    5610.769 Carryover Projects Unincorporated                           636,802.19        1,407,514         2,580,529
    5610.768 Carryover Projects Other                                                        439,001            22,936
    5610.7691 Carryover Projects Direct Grant Unincorporated                    -                  0                 0
   Total Projects other                                                7,812,095.86       25,172,179        53,247,461

   Engineering Project
    5610.612 New Projects Brighton                                                           300,000
    5610.613 New Projects Copperton                                                          600,000          200,000
    5610.614 New Projects- Emigration Township                                               809,750
    5610.615 New Projeccts- Kearns                                                           838,785           135,000
    5610.616 New Projects- Magna                                                           1,022,578         2,160,000
    5610.617 New Projects White City                                                         556,525           507,646
    5610.619 New Projects- Unincorporated                                                    750,000           965,000
    5610.618 New Projects Other                                                              400,000           400,000
    5610.772 Engineering- Brighton                                        18,841.45
    5610.773 Engineering- Copperton                                          305.83
    5610.774 Engineering- Emigration Township                              9,888.75
    5610.775 Engineering- Kearns                                          37,580.78
    5610.776 Engineering- Magna                                          254,334.94
    5610.777 Engineering- White City                                      11,221.32
    5610.779 Engineering-Unincorporated                                  133,488.55
    5610.801 Building Board Designated                                         -           3,000,000
    5610.804 Emigration Council Designated                                                         0                 0
    5610.805 Kearns Council Designated                                         -                   0                 0
   Total Engineering Project                                            465,661.62         8,277,638         4,367,646



                                                                            05/08/2025
                                                 Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                          FY 2025 Approved Budget
                                                                Capital Projects
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Budgeting Worksheet
Capital Fund

                                                                                                  FY2025
                                                                             2024 Approved       Approved
                                                            2023 Actual         Budget            Budget        Budgeting Notes

   Other Capital Projects
    5610.620 Other Capital Projects                                    -            635,000
    5610.622 Capital Proj- Brighton                                    -                  0                 0
    5610.623 Capital Proj- Copperton                                                 25,000                 0
    5610.624 Capital Proj- Emigration Township                        -                   0                 0
    5610.625 Capital Proj- Kearns                               86,150.00            17,026
    5610.6251 Capital Proj- Kearns ARPA                               -                   0                 0
    5610.6252 Capital Proj- Kearns CARES                              -                   0                 0
    5610.626 Capital Proj- Magna                                      -            800,000
    5610.627 Capital Proj- White City                                 -            707,659
    5610.629 Capital Proj- Unincorporated                             -             100,000
   Total Other Capital Projects                                 86,150.00      2,284,685.00                 0

  Total Projects                                             8,363,907.48       35,734,502        57,615,107

  Transfers
                                                                                                            $600,000 from PWE's budget allocated for
   5700.100 Contribution to Fund Balance                               -                  0         600,000 Development Services in fund 10
  Total Transfers                                                      -                  0         600,000

 Total Expenditures:                                         8,363,907.48       39,166,936        61,046,740

Total Change In Net Position                                (4,089,612.19)               (0)                0




                                                                  05/08/2025
                                                                                                                                      Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                                                                                                                    Amended Budget
                                                                                                                                          For Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2025


                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pleasant
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Green          Magna
                                                               MSD/ General                                                                Copperton      Emigration                                          (Magna)      Communities
                                                                  Fund                 Capital Impr         Brighton     Copperton         Cemetery        Canyon              Kearns            Magna        Cemetery       that Care     White City        Unincorporated        Total

REVENUES
  Other Financing Sources - Levoy Lease                            3,340,759.49                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,340,759
  Sales taxes                                                                                                637,000         105,000                          300,000          6,300,000         5,450,000           -                           900,000          5,050,000         18,742,000
  Cable TV Franchise Fees                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           100,000            100,000
  Transportation Sales Tax (SB136)                                                                             63,000         10,000                           30,000            600,000           525,000                                        85,000            500,000          1,813,000
  Class B&C Road Funds and Road Tax                                                                            16,000         35,000                          100,000          1,600,000         1,200,000                                       230,000          3,005,000          6,186,000
  State Liquor/Beer funds                                                                                       5,000            400                            2,500             25,000                                         20,000            2,900                                55,800
  Planning and Zoning Fees                                                                                     95,000          4,150                           27,500            250,000         1,401,000           -                            36,000           460,000           2,273,650
  Charges for Services                                                                                         28,000            700             7,000          7,000             20,000           550,000        40,000                          26,000           220,000             898,700
  Fines and Forfeitures                                                                                           800          3,700                              -                1,000           180,000           -                            31,500           105,000             322,000
  Interest and other                                                 1,050,000             1,500,000           70,000          1,500             3,001         20,000            100,000            90,000         4,500                           7,500            78,000           2,924,501
  Grants                                                                                   4,687,226                                                                                               200,000                      625,000                                              5,512,226
  Grants paid directly to contractors                                                     26,838,948                                                                                                                                                                                26,838,948
  CARES and ARPA                                                                                                              98,823                           55,208          3,633,390         2,865,883                                       682,646                             7,335,950
  Use of Restricted Funds (CARES and ARPA)                                                 3,020,679                                                                                                                                                                                 3,020,679
  Contributions from Bond Proceeds                                                         8,792,018                                                                                                                                                                                 8,792,018
  Contributions from Fund Balance                                    7,581,230            13,557,869                                                                                                                                                                                21,139,099
                                                                    11,971,990            58,396,740          914,800        259,273           10,001         542,208         12,529,390        12,461,883        44,500         645,000       2,001,546          9,518,000        109,295,331
                                                                                                            1,386,824        429,034           18,001         784,320         13,612,751        13,521,892        89,000       1,240,000       2,501,538         10,150,322
EXPENSES
  Levoy Lease                                                        3,340,759                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,340,759
  Administration                                                     2,905,284                               472,024         169,761             8,000        242,111          1,083,361         1,060,009        44,500        595,000          499,992           632,322           7,712,365
  Animal Services                                                      996,696                                                                                                                                                                                                         996,696
  DA Prosecution                                                       417,292                                                                                                                                                                                                         417,292
  Indigent Legal                                                       202,616                                                                                                                                                                                                         202,616
  Justice Courts                                                     1,726,734                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,726,734
  Parks Maintenance                                                  1,302,417                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,302,417
  Public Works                                                      12,005,993                                                                                                                                                                                                      12,005,993
  Engineering                                                          600,000             2,831,633                                                                                                                                                                                 3,431,633
  Engineering - Maintenance                                          2,152,500                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,152,500
  Professional Services                                                765,000                                                                                                                                                                                                         765,000
  Information Technology                                               250,000                                                                                                                                                                                                         250,000
  Planning and Development                                           6,200,836                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,200,836
  Non-classified                                                       391,293                                                                                                                                                                                                         391,293
  Equipment, IT and AV hardware for new facility                       525,000                   -                                                                                                                                                                                     525,000
  Debt repayment                                                     2,204,971                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,204,971
  State Liquor/Beer funds                                                                                       5,000            400                            2,500             25,000                                         20,000            2,900                                55,800
  CARES and ARPA                                                                                                              98,823                           55,208          3,633,390         2,865,883                                       682,646                             7,335,950
  Capital Projects New                                                                     4,367,646                                                                                                                                                                                 4,367,646
  Capital Projects Bond                                                                          -                                                                                                                                                                                         -
  Capital Projects (Carryover)                                                            53,247,461                                                                                                                                                                                53,247,461
  Contribution to Fund Balance                                                                                                                  2,001                                                                            30,000                                                 32,001
                                                                    35,987,391            60,446,740         477,024         268,984           10,001         299,820          4,741,751         3,925,892        44,500        645,000        1,185,538           632,322         108,664,963

TRANSFERS
  Transfers in                                                      29,680,782             2,650,000         472,024         170,161                          244,611          1,083,361         1,060,009           -               -           502,892           632,322          36,496,162
  Transfers out                                                      (5,665,380)            (600,000)        (909,800)       (160,450)                        (487,000)       (8,871,000)       (9,596,000)                                    (1,318,900)       (9,518,000)       (37,126,530)
  Transfers to Capital Projects                                             -                    -                                -                                -                 -                 -                                              -                 -                  -
  Transfer to Capital fund - Council Designated                                                  -                                -                                -                 -                 -                                              -                                    -
  Increase (Decrease) in Fund Balance                                                                                                                                                                                -               -                                                     -
                                                                    24,015,402             2,050,000         (437,776)          9,711              -          (242,389)       (7,787,639)       (8,535,991)          -               -          (816,008)        (8,885,678)          (630,368)

                                                  NET BUDGET   $          (0.00)   $             -      $         -      $        -       $        -      $        -      $          -      $          -      $      -     $         -     $          -      $        (0.00)   $           (0.00)




                                                                                                                                                       05/08/2025
Exhibit C: MSD Audit Report ending June 30 2024
0123421637473829 37621 26 641 4
 6
 
!""#
                                                                                                                                         2$
                                                          8$           9              4%            $            &               '         ()&            4'
                                                           9$               9$                               9$                9$                 0$              9$               
                                                         4%)            4%)             *$)           4%)            4%)                $&           4%)                
3+
  ,-./0-1203145.67516.8                          ?0000009:;<=:><= ?000000@:<A@:BB@ ?000000@:>>C:==A ?000000000><@:A;= ?000000000>C>:DAA ?000000000=>B:DAA ?000000=:9;C:9BB ?0000=A:9@A:99A
  E5F534-GH5.8
    I-H5.:0J.5:0-120K6/5L06-M5.
    NFFKJ16.0                                    00000000000000>B:D=< 000000000000000>:BAB 000000000000000000=@> 000000000000000000O 000000000000000000O 000000000000000000O 000000000000000@:C=; 000000000000009D:B;C
    PJ50QLK70K6/5L0RK45L17516.                    00000000=:@CC:AA< 0000000=0:9A;:AAA 0000000000000>09:<BC 0000000000000>0@:@<@ 00000000000000D<:99< 000000000000000000O 0000000000<0=A:;BA 00000000>:>9A:@C>
  E5.6L3F6520F-./0-1203145.67516.                 00000000000;9A:<C; 00000000=:<C=:DD@ 000000000000000<:;9C 000000000000000000O 00000000000000<B:=B< 000000000000000000O 000000000000000000;@> 00000000=:DD=:@A;
  ,-S36-H0-..56.8
    T-12:0LK-2.:0-120FK1.6LJF63K10310SLKRL5.. 000000@9:<=;:>=@ 00000;09:;;A:;;9 00000000000;=;:DC; 00000000=:DA9:>C9 0000000>0:DA<:B>9 000000000000000000O 00000000A:DCA:<=@ 000=0>>:C@@:<>D
    UJ3H231R.0-12037SLK457516.:07-F/315LV0-120
      5WJ3S7516:01560KQ0-FFJ7JH-652025SL5F3-63K1 00000000000BC>:9>C 00000000@:99;:B@B 000000000000000000O 0000000000>0;@:C=@ 0000000000=0;;:<@C 000000000000000000O 0000000000>0;;:D@9 00000000A:<9D:@CD
    XK6-H0-..56.0                                000000;=:B<D:D@; 000000AD:CA>:<@B 00000000@:BD9:CC; 00000000<:;CC:;C@ 000000009:9@9:;B@ 00000000000=>B:DAA 00000000B:D@A:B>9 0000=;>:C>B:<><
7'+
  NFFKJ16.0-120FK16L-F6.0S-V-GH5                 0000000000000<0>:DB> 00000000000=9D:B=D 00000000000000@@:D>@ 0000000000000009:B@A 000000000000000;:@<D 000000000000000D:<9< 0000000000000=0@:C=D 00000000000<;>:>B=
  Y5LQKL7-1F50GK12.                               00000000000;9A:<C; 00000000=:<C=:DD@ 000000000000000<:;9C 000000000000000000O 00000000000000<B:=B< 000000000000000000O 000000000000000000;@> 0000000=0:DD=:@A;
  Z15-L1520L5451J5                                00000000>:@>>:CBA 0000000>0:D=>:A9B 000000000000000000O 00000000000=<C:<DB 00000000000000BA:9>D 000000000000000000O 00000000000D;A:>>= 0000000D0:9>=:BC9
  PJ506K0SL37-LV0RK45L17516                       00000000=:@9C:@D9 0000000=0:>>;:<;; 0000000000000>09:99> 0000000000000>0@:@<@ 0000000000000D0<:99< 000000000000000000O 0000000000<0<<:A=> 0000000>0:<@=:BA>
    XK6-H0H3-G3H3635.                            00000000@:A99:ADC 00000000;:@CC:D=D 0000000000000B0<:B=D 00000000000=;C:AA= 00000000000<=@:;CC 000000000000000D:<9< 00000000=:=C@:A=@ 000000=>:D<D:D99
 +
  [5603145.675160310F-S36-H0-..56.                000000@@:==B:A9@ 00000A0C:==9:;<> 00000000000;=;:DC; 00000000<:<>B:>=B 000000090:C>B:=D9 000000000000000000O 00000000D:=A9:C;B 0000=9C:>C>:A9;
  Z1L5.6L3F652                                    00000000=:C;9:>>= 0000000=0:9@A:D=D 0000000@0:<A9:<D< 00000000000<CC:@=@ 0000000000=0BB:B== 0000000000=0>=:;>@ 0000000000@0AD:=@C 00000000D:BC;:;9<
    XK6-H01560SK.363K1                           ?0000@;:=D9:CA; ?0000A=:@A<:99= ?000000@:DB=:CDD ?000000<:9>B:D>9 ?0000009:<>B:CB@ ?000000000=>=:;>@ ?000000D:A@<:<=B ?00=9B:<=C:>DD




                                                                                                          O>AO
0123421637473829 37621 26 641 4
 63
 
U$6&9$T2TTV4WXYZXZ[                                                                 2
                                          8        9            4                      !         " #$! 4"
                                            9            9                           9             9             0              9           
                                         4 $         4 $         %$          4 $          4 $             !         4 $               
2&                              -......'()*'(+', -......)(/+0(+'* -.........1')(/2* -.........0'/(1** -.........210(+/, -...........2*(2)3 -.........1/'(1+* -....,'(+0+(,12
45
 6789:;<.=>9.<;9?@A;<                 ...........2*+(*,) ........,(*'1(,02 .............1.)(+,* ...............1(+)3 .............3.*(*3) .............2.+(002 .............3.,(',2 ........0(+*/(+,+
 BC;98D@E:.:98ED<.8EF.A>ED9@GHD@>E<   ........0(*''(33' ........,(2,3(21+ .............,.+()*0 .............0.+(++* .............1.,(+*/ ..................I ...........,20(+/, ........*(+2)('02
J;D.K;LC;E<;M.9;?;EH;                 .......K*(10/(+/1M .......K*(,+1(3',M ..........K'1+(0'1M ..........K03,(''3M ..........K0*)(31)M ..............K*(,*0M ..........K',*(+++M .....K,+(/2*(*3+M
0"45
 N8O;<(.H<;(.8EF.>D7;9.D8L;<          ........2()*)('3) ........2(00)(11) ........,(10,(/++ .............1.,(0), ...........,'3(00/ ..................I ...........3+3(1)+ ......../(*3'(1/0
 P89E@E:<.>E.@E?;<DQ;ED<              ...........,2)(/)/ ...........,2,(330 ...........,,'(021 ...............)(1)3 ...............'(013 ..................I .............2.)(*+) ...........*2)(2,3
 BD7;9                                .............0.+(3*2 ...........032(/,1 .............0.)()2+ ..................*)* ...............,(+++ ..................I ...............2(+1/ ...........2+3()**
 6>ED9@GHD@>E<                        .........../,+(3,2 ........0(+0+(32) ...........02'(/03 ...........0,/(*1* ...........*/3(*10 ..................I ...........*22(223 ........*(2,'(0'3
    R>D8O.:;E;98O.9;?;EH;<            ........*(',*('1, ........3()20(1/0 ........0(0+2()/2 ...........2+1(+'* ...........)'1(//) ..................I .........../'1()/+ ......,*(3,'(,0)
 678E:;.@E.E;D.C><@D@>E               ..........K,,*(2,'M ........,(30*(20, ........,(*02(*,3 .............3.)(0// ...........*20(*,+ ..............K*(,*0M ...........0)*()/+ ........2(310()')
   S            ......3)(0/1(2/2 ......'+(+*1(,0+ ........*(*)'()'2 ........0(212(323 ........2(1+)()13 ...........,23(''' ........1(*1'(30/ ....,*3()0'(',0
   ST               -....3)(,1*(+') -....',(3'0(**, -......3(1/,(+11 -......0(*2/(12* -......*(02/(+/3 -.........,2,()23 -......1('30(0,/ -..,*/(0,+(211




                                                                                         I21I
0123421637473829                          37621 26 641 4
 6
 
 !"#$%#%&
                                                                                                                                      2'
                                                    8'            9               4(            '             )                         *)             4
                                                     9'                9'                  +              9'                 9'                  0'              9'                
                                                   4(             4(              '           4(             4(                 ')           4(                 
3,
  -./01.2314256/78627/9                          @111111:;<=>;?=> @111111A;=BA;CCA @111111A;??D;>>B @111111111?=A;B<> @111111111?D?;EBB @111111111>?C;EBB @111111>;:<D;:CC @1111>B;:AB;::B
  F6/7G4H7631H./01.2314256/78627/                 11111111111<:B;=D< 11111111>;=D>;EEA 111111111111111=;<:D 111111111111111111I 11111111111111=C;>C= 111111111111111111I 111111111111111111<A? 11111111>;EE>;AB<
  F6H645.JK6/9
    LHHMN27/1                                    11111111111111?C;E>= 111111111111111?;CBC 111111111111111111>A? 111111111111111111I 111111111111111111I 111111111111111111I 111111111111111A;D>< 1111111111111:1E;C<D
    ON61PGM81M706G1QM56G28627/                    11111111>;ADD;BB= 1111111>1;:B<;BBB 11111111111111?:;=CD 1111111111111?1A;A=A 1111111111111E1=;::= 111111111111111111I 11111111111=>B;<CB 1111111?1;?:B;AD?
      RM7.K1.//67/1                              @111111<;EDC;>>> @111111B;CAE;<?< @111111A;?<B;=DD @111111111?<>;=E< @111111111:>A;A>> @111111111>?C;EBB @111111>;<E?;E<A @1111==;B?A;:E<
7,
  LHHMN27/1.231HM27G.H7/1S.T.JK6                 @11111111111=?;EC? @111111111>:E;C>E 1111111111111A1A;E?A @1111111111111:1;CAB @1111111111111<1;A=E @1111111111111E1;=:= @11111111111>A;D>E @111111111=<?;?C>
  U6GPMG8.2H61JM23/                               11111111111<:B;=D< 11111111>;=D>;EEA 111111111111111=;<:D 111111111111111111I 11111111111111=C;>C= 111111111111111111I 111111111111111111<A? 11111111>;EE>;AB<
  V26.G2631G6562N6                                11111111?;A??;DCB 11111111?;E>?;B:C 111111111111111111I 11111111111>=D;=EC 1111111111111C1B;:?E 111111111111111111I 11111111111E<B;??> 1111111E1;:?>;CD:
  ON617M1SG48.GT1QM56G28627                       11111111>;A:D;AE: 1111111>1;??<;=<< 1111111111111?1:;::? 1111111111111?1A;A=A 1111111111111E1=;::= 111111111111111111I 1111111111=1==;B>? 1111111?1;=A>;CB?
      RM7.K1K4.J4K4746/                          11111111A;B::;BED 11111111<;ADD;E>E 1111111111111C1=;C>E 11111111111><D;BB> 11111111111=>A;<DD 111111111111111E;=:= 11111111>;>DA;B>A 111111>?;E=E;E::
W!X,
  L//4Q26317M9
    Y706G1SNGSM/6/                                11111111111EB<;<== 11111111>;>>=;B:> 11111111111=>:;<BD 1111111111>1E:;><? 1111111111>1??;D:> 11111111111>?A;BBB 1111111111A1DC;?ED 11111111?;><<;?C:
  V2.//4Q263                                      11111111111>EB;BDC 1111111111?1:A;DBB 11111111A;DAC;<>= 1111111111111>1<;?A= 11111111111111<<;EBD 11111111111111Z:;>:=[ 1111111111111<1E;BBD 11111111A;B:D;=:E
      RM7.K1PN231J.K.2H6/                        11111111>;D<:;??> 11111111>;:AB;E>E 11111111A;=B:;=E= 11111111111=DD;A>A 11111111111>CC;C>> 11111111111>?>;<?A 11111111111ABE;>AD 11111111E;CD<;<:=
        RM7.K1K4.J4K4746/;136P6GG63142PKM\/1MP
           G6/MNGH6/;1.231PN231J.K.2H6/          @111111<;EDC;>>> @111111B;CAE;<?< @111111A;?<B;=DD @111111111?<>;=E< @111111111:>A;A>> @111111111>?C;EBB @111111>;<E?;E<A @1111==;B?A;:E<




                                                                                                      I?CI
0123421637473829 37621 26 641 4
 612!"!#$!%&'
  
$"#69#"!2!!_`ababc                                                                                          2"
                                                   8"            9               4(              "              )               &          *#)             4&
                                                    9"                9"                                 9"                 9"                 0"               9"                 
                                                  4(#              4(#               %"#            4(#              4(#                 ")            4(#                  
1+
 ,-./01230/12-452678/927-:/0                    @222222;1<=<1>?< @222222;1AA<1BB< @222222C1BAC1DEE @22222222222BC1A<C @222222222C>?1AAD @2222222222222222F @222222222?E?1B<E @222222D1=?>1BDA
 GHI/40/02-452J/9KH70                           22222222222C;=1DE; 22222222C1AEC1A<? 2222222222222<2E1?D= 222222222222222=1=CC 2222222222222;2B1C=> 2222222222222A2?1B>D 2222222222222C2<1=?= 22222222C1=BC1<?;
 L47/9M6N/94K/47-.                              22222222A1=>>1??> 22222222C1;C?1;BE 2222222222222C2E1<=A 2222222222222A2E1EE= 2222222222222B2C1E=D 222222222222222222F 22222222222C;A1EDC 22222222=1E;<1>A;
 O8-9M/02P6920/9NHI/0                           2222222222222?2=1EAA 22222222222C?>1?;< 2222222222222A2;1<?E 222222222222222222AD; 2222222222222C2E1;?? 222222222222222=1;== 2222222222222C2A1B;E 22222222222A<;1E;E
 QH4/02-452P69P/H739/0                          22222222222C?C1=DC 22222222222CCD1;AA 222222222222222C1>>E 222222222222222;1;<C 222222222222222?1D?= 222222222222222222F 2222222222222A2A1=AD 22222222222;E=1;A>
 R-94H4M02642H4N/07K/470                        22222222222C;<1D<D 22222222222C;C1??A 22222222222CC>1A;B 222222222222222<1B<? 222222222222222>1AB? 222222222222222222F 2222222222222;2<1=E< 22222222222=;<1;C?
 S78/9                                          2222222222222A2E1?=; 22222222222A?;1DCB 2222222222222A2<1<;E 222222222222222222=<= 222222222222222C1EEE 222222222222222222F 222222222222222;1EBD 22222222222;E?1<==
 O6479HT37H640                                  22222222222?EC1CEE 22222222222?B;1==A 22222222222A;>1DA? 2222222222222D2E1?EE 22222222222CA>1EA? 222222222222222222F 22222222222AAA1;<? 22222222C1><A1;?>
   U67-.29/N/43/0                               22222222>1CA;1;=C 22222222<1DBD1;EC 22222222A1;EE1;=D 22222222222AE>1C?D 22222222222==<1E== 2222222222222;2E1AA; 22222222222D?C1?A= 222222CB1E=>1D=C
2!"+
 O399/47V
   W34HIHJ-.20/9NHI/0V
     ,-.-9H/02-452X-M/0                         2222222222222=2B1<EE 22222222222C=?1??D 2222222222222<2<1CE> 2222222222222;2E1<?? 2222222222222;2;1EEE 222222222222222222F 2222222222222;2?1=EA 22222222222;?D1;A;
     RKJ.6Y//2T/4/PH70                          222222222222222;1>CB 2222222222222=2D1;AA 2222222222222C2C1>B? 222222222222222A1;=? 222222222222222A1?A? 222222222222222222F 222222222222222A1>EB 2222222222222>2A1=E;
     Z96P/00H64-.20/9NHI/0                      2222222222222?2<1EAE 2222222222222A2B1<;D 2222222222222?2?1?BE 2222222222222C2B1D;< 2222222222222C2<1BBE 222222222222222222F 2222222222222A2?1=>C 22222222222AEC1?A<
     L47/9-M/4IY2I6479-I70                      222222222222222222F 2222222222222?2C1;>D 222222222222222222F 222222222222222222F 222222222222222222F 222222222222222222F 222222222222222222F 2222222222222?2C1;>D
     S78/9                                      22222222C1>;;1<;E 22222222222BA?1?B; 22222222222C=<1<;> 2222222222222A2A1AAB 2222222222222A2B1<=A 2222222222222;2=1;<? 2222222222222D2<1??; 22222222A1BB>1<;B
     O6479HT37H6402762678/92M6N/94K/470         22222222?1ED;1<<= 22222222?1<D?1>C? 22222222222?D<1BA? 22222222222CC<1<=; 22222222222ADB1CA> 222222222222222222F 22222222222>AA1<AE 222222CA1?A;1?D=
   U67-.2/:J/45H739/0                           22222222<1D;?1<;A 22222222<1>D<1CD> 22222222222B><1D;= 22222222222CDE1BE> 22222222222;>D1C>= 2222222222222;2=1;<? 22222222222BBA1>?= 222222C<1ED?1B<;
     R:I/002[5/PHIH/4IY\26P29/N/43/0
       6N/92[345/9\2/:J/45H739/02]24/72I8-4M/
       H42P3452T-.-4I/0                         22222222222CB>1>ED 22222222222CD;1CE= 22222222C1=A;1=C? 2222222222222C2<1;?A 2222222222222<2<1B>E 22222222222222[=1C=A\ 2222222222222<2B1>>E 22222222C1D?A1E>B
$!&'^                       22222222222B><1<AA 22222222C1A<=1>C= 22222222;1B?E1B<> 22222222222CB=1C<; 22222222222C;;1E=C 22222222222C;?1>>> 22222222222?ED1;BE 22222222<1D?=1?<=
$!&'^!                          @222222C1E<=1;;C @222222C1=?>1BCB @222222?1A>=1ABA @222222222AEE1?C? @222222222CDD1DCC @222222222C;C1<;? @222222222?>B1C?E @222222B1DE<1<=A




                                                                                                    F=EF
Exhibit D: Magna City FY26 Administration Budget Summary
                                      Administration
                                      Magna Township
                                         FY 2026

Administration    SUMMARY                                     Final       Tentative
                                             Actual          Budget        Budget        %
                                            FY 2024         FY 2025       FY 2026       Diff.
            Account Name
City Manager wages                      $     184,305   $   191,700   $       338,700     76.7%
Council wages                                  60,000        88,000           105,100     19.4%
Employee benefits                              67,238        79,030           140,780     78.1%
Awards, recognition                             1,541         2,000             2,000      0.0%
Subscriptions, memberships                     18,036        24,330            27,830     14.4%
Printing/publications/advertising               1,358         8,000             4,000    -50.0%
Travel/mileage                                  2,030         2,500             2,500      0.0%
Office expense and supplies                       624         6,200            14,750    137.9%
Computer equipment/software/Cell                6,017        10,000             7,500    -25.0%
Attorney-civil                                 59,398        75,000            90,000     20.0%
Attorney-land use                                   -        30,000            35,000     16.7%
Training and seminars                           1,914        17,500             5,000    -71.4%
Web page development/maintenance                7,902        19,745             9,745    -50.6%
Software/streaming                             16,629         5,000            17,500    250.0%
Payroll processing fees                           652         1,100             1,100      0.0%
Grant charged expense                           4,000             -                 -      0.0%
Communications                                  1,186        10,000            10,000      0.0%
Contributions/special events                   79,421       172,000           195,700     13.8%
Insurance                                       1,962        26,000            26,000      0.0%
Workers comp insurance                          1,120         2,500             3,750     50.0%
Postage                                         4,070        20,000            10,000    -50.0%
Professional and technical                     77,320        89,504           112,000     25.1%
UFA emergency services                         26,532             -                 -      0.0%
Grant related                                   5,000             -                 -      0.0%
SL (Client) county support services            20,008        30,500            35,000     14.8%
Equipment/computer purchases                      287         7,500                 -   -100.0%
Alcohol remediation                                 -             -                 -      0.0%
Rent/remodel/utilities                         18,550       133,000            40,000    -69.9%
Non classified expenses                            16         5,000                 -   -100.0%
Totals:                                 $     667,116   $ 1,056,109   $     1,233,955     16.8%
‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 3‬

‭ uestion‬‭: Does Magna have a savings or reserve account? How does this work in practice? If‬
Q
‭the city generates revenue beyond what was budgeted, can that surplus be placed in savings?‬
 ‭Is the city allowed to invest surplus funds (for example, in a diversified stock account, bonds,‬
  ‭etc.)?‬

A
‭ nswer‬‭: The reserve amount at the end of the fiscal year is part of the schedule of member‬
‭cities report of the annual audit that was attached in questions #2. The surplus is placed in‬
 ‭savings accounts. Government entities are state mandated to follow the State’s money‬
  ‭management rules and policies. Investments are limited to very riskless investments and the‬
   ‭majority of entities place their savings in a public trust investment fund (PTIF account). An‬
    ‭example of an account is attached.‬

‭Exhibit A: PTIF - Statement of Account, period May 1 through May 31, 2025 (1 page)‬




                                                                                                     ‭4‬
Exhibit A: PTIF - Statement of Account, period May 1 through May 31, 2025
                                      STATEMENT OF ACCOUNT

                                                PTIF
                    UTAH PUBLIC TREASURERS' INVESTMENT FUND
                                Marlo M. Oaks, Utah State Treasurer, Fund Manager
                                                  PO Box 142315
                                            350 N State Street, Suite 180
                                         Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-2315
                                Local Call (801) 538-1042 Toll Free (800) 395-7665
                                              www.treasurer.utah.gov

             CENTRAL WASATCH COMMISSION
             TREASURER / CFO
             311 S STATE STREET, SUITE 330
             SALT LAKE CITY UT 84111




Account                                                                                                   Account Period
8612                                                                                    May 01, 2025 through May 31, 2025

Summary
Beginning Balance                     $ 1,310,788.12        Average Daily Balance                          $ 1,258,449.41
Deposits                                   $ 4,779.91       Interest Earned                                     $ 4,779.91
Withdrawals                             $ 137,500.00        360 Day Rate                                            4.4109
Ending Balance                        $ 1,178,068.03        365 Day Rate                                            4.4721


Date           Activity                                 Deposits               Withdrawals                        Balance

05/01/2025     FORWARD BALANCE                             $ 0.00                         $ 0.00           $ 1,310,788.12
05/02/2025     DS 05/01                                    $ 0.00                    $ 10,000.00           $ 1,300,788.12
05/13/2025     DS 05/12                                    $ 0.00                    $ 17,500.00           $ 1,283,288.12
05/23/2025     DS 05/21                                    $ 0.00               $ 110,000.00               $ 1,173,288.12
05/31/2025     REINVESTMENT                           $ 4,779.91                          $ 0.00           $ 1,178,068.03
05/31/2025     ENDING BALANCE                              $ 0.00                         $ 0.00           $ 1,178,068.03




                                                                                                         Page 1 of 1
‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 4‬

‭ uestion‬‭: Since Magna partners with the Municipal Services District, Unified Police‬
Q
‭Department, and Unified Fire Authority for key services, would it be possible to continue those‬
 ‭partnerships while also establishing our own police force or other parallel services?‬

‭ nswer‬‭: Each of the three public entities associated with Magna City have agreements in‬
A
‭place (some established by state law) that control the relationship of the parties should the City‬
 ‭decide to leave that entity.‬

I‭n the instance of the MSD, state code sets out the process for withdrawing. See link:‬
 ‭https://le.utah.gov/xcode/Title17B/Chapter2A/17B-2a-S1110.html?v=C17B-2a-S1110_20240501‬
  ‭20240501‬

‭ equirements to leave the MSD include a feasibility study, public hearings and the possibility of‬
R
‭providing support to the MSD for ten years based on the results of the feasibility study.‬

‭ hould the City decide to leave the UPD & UFA, there are controlling agreements that‬
S
‭contemplate the City making the respective entities “whole.” I have previously served as a City‬
 ‭Manager in a City that separated from the previous Sheriff office/UPD model. The separation‬
  ‭took place over a two year period and involved the prior Sheriff office/UPD model seeking‬
   ‭compensation for vehicles and retirement contributions to URS for officers.‬


‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 5‬

‭ uestion‬‭: Similarly, is there any reason why Magna could not hire its own code enforcement‬
Q
‭officer, even while continuing to partner with the MSD or county for related services?‬

‭ nswer‬‭: The City Council can elect to hire an additional code enforcement officer. Under the‬
A
‭new form of government the City Manager would be the supervisor of city employees. The‬
 ‭Mayor will have obligations and responsibilities set out by city code.‬


‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 6‬

‭ uestion‬‭: Is there any legal,‬‭structural, or practical reason why Magna could not employ a‬
Q
‭grant writer (either as a staff position or on a contract basis) to help secure outside funding for‬
 ‭city projects?‬

‭ nswer‬‭: Presently, Magna City relies upon the MSD’s grant writer. The MSD’s grant writer was‬
A
‭recently recognized by a review panel for having submitted the “best prepared grant application”‬
 ‭the panel had ever seen. This type of recognition is greatly appreciated by the Magna City‬


                                                                                                        ‭5‬
‭ ouncil. That being said, the Magna City Council can hire additional personnel if that is their‬
C
‭desire.‬

‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 7‬

‭Question‬‭: What do you see as the first priorities for Magna right now?‬

‭ nswer‬‭: In my opinion, a City Manager should always act in the best interests of the city and‬
A
‭its residents. Essential services that the community relies on must be delivered using‬
 ‭transparent best practices, while also ensuring strong fiscal responsibility. A top priority will be‬
  ‭unifying the newly formed Magna City Council (from the 5 Districts) and the city’s first elected‬
   ‭Mayor to collaboratively identify and clearly articulate the city's goals.‬

‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 8‬

‭ uestion‬‭: In your opinion, what policies could make the biggest positive difference for Magna’s‬
Q
‭long-term sustainability?‬

‭ nswer‬‭: The responsibilities the Magna City Council will be assuming will undoubtedly be‬
A
‭challenging. As mentioned in answer #1, Magna City does not impose a property tax, which‬
 ‭means the City Council must establish policies that clearly define the levels of service they aim‬
  ‭to maintain. At some point, the City Council will need to confront the reality that inflation and the‬
   ‭rising cost of living directly impact the ability to sustain these expected services. Ensuring the‬
    ‭public remains informed about this challenge will require transparent, well-defined policies.‬


‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 9‬

‭ uestion‬‭: How would you describe the relationship between a City Manager and a City‬
Q
‭Council in practice?‬

‭ nswer‬‭: In the new form of government that will be implemented in 2026, the City Council sets‬
A
‭policy and the City Manager, (who is typically hired by the Mayor and confirmed by the City‬
 ‭Council) oversees the day-to-day administration and operations of the city. The City Manager‬
  ‭implements the City Council's decisions, provides professional advice, and manages city staff.‬
   ‭Essentially, the City Council governs, and the City Manager helps direct daily operations.‬


‭July 8, 2025:‬‭Number 10‬

‭Question‬‭: Do you believe levying a property tax in the near future is essential for Magna?‬

‭ nswer‬‭: That depends on the ongoing expectations imposed by the City Council. As I set out‬
A
‭in my response to question 8, what are the levels of service that your community is expecting?‬


                                                                                                          ‭6‬
‭ s city services continue at their current level, inflation will eventually lead to a reduction in the‬
A
‭amount of tax revenue collected. Ideally, alternative revenue sources will grow, and any‬
 ‭potential property tax imposition will remain minimal.‬




                                                                                                           ‭7‬
Magna City
Yearly Budget                                  91.70%                       5/31/2025
                                          Actual to           FY 2024
Revenues                                  5/31/2025            Budget               Projected
Sales taxes                                   5,811,297         5,450,000              6,400,000
Grants                                                -           200,000                      -
Transportation sales tax                        517,705           525,000                550,000
Class C road funds                            1,165,198         1,200,000              1,275,000
Corridor preservation funds                     112,500                 -                112,500
Business License                                 59,443            50,000                 60,000
Building permits                                834,553         1,250,000              1,000,000
Other permits                                         -            21,000                      -
Sewer and water permits                               -             5,000                      -
Zoning - land use permit                            200            75,000                    500
Engineering services                             53,682            50,000                 57,500
Planning service                                169,310           500,000                175,000
Storm drain fee                                       -                 -                      -
Code enforcement fines                            6,362             5,000                  6,500
Justice court fines                             194,179           175,000                195,000
Interest earnings                                62,485            75,000                 75,000
Miscellaneous                                         7            15,000                     10
Transfers in                                  1,060,009         1,060,009              1,060,009
Total Revenues                        $     10,046,930    $    10,656,009       $    10,967,019
Expenses - Administration
Wages                                          243,522            279,700                279,700
Employee Benefits                               70,352             79,030                 79,030
Awards, promotional & meals                        919              2,000                  2,000
Subscriptions/Memberships                        4,355             24,330                 24,330
Printing/Publications/Advertising                4,712              8,000                  8,000
Travel/Mileage                                   1,627              2,500                  2,500
Cell phone and telephone                         3,600                  -                  3,750
Office expense and supplies                        772              6,200   *              6,200
Computer equipment/Software                      4,600             10,000                 10,000
Attorney-Civil                                  50,094             75,000                 75,000
Lobbyist                                        26,000                  -                 26,000
Attorney-Land use                                    -             30,000                      -
Training & Seminars                              1,271             17,500                  1,500
Web page development/Maintenance                11,167             19,745                 15,000
Software/Streaming                              24,238              5,000   *             25,000
Payroll processing fees                            437              5,000                  1,000
Grant charged expense                                -                  -                      -
Communications                                      50             10,000                     50
Credit card and bank expenses                      325                  -                    500
Contribution/Special events                     90,222            172,000                100,000
Insurance                                       21,104             26,000                 22,000
Workers comp insurance                             130              2,500                    130
Postage                                          9,347             20,000                 11,000
Professional and technical                      17,334             89,504                 22,500
Grant related                                    1,000                  -                  1,000
SL (Client) County Support Services                  -             30,500                      -
Equipment/Computer purchases                         -              7,500                      -
Code enforcement mitigation                      7,347                  -                  7,347
Utilities                                        3,370                  -                  3,370
Rent                                             8,179            133,000                 15,000
Non classified expenses                              -              5,000                      -
Total Administration                  $       606,074     $     1,060,009       $       741,907
Budget Report Yearly                91.70%                      5/31/2025
Expenses - Transfers
Contribution to GF                 8,874,419        9,596,000         9,596,000
Transfer to Capital projects         112,500                -           112,500
Operational transfer out               4,297                -             4,297
Total Transfers                $   8,991,216   $    9,596,000   $    9,712,797

Total Expenses                 $   9,597,290   $   10,656,009   $   10,454,704

Surplus/Deficit                $   449,640     $           -    $     512,315
Magna City (Designated Fund)
Yearly Budget                        83.60%                      4/30/2025
                                Actual to          FY 2024
Revenues                        4/30/2025           Budget           Projected
Municipal Energy                         268                 -              2,500
Municipal Telecom                     37,892                 -             50,000
Municipal Power                      366,501                 -            425,000
Municipal Natural Gas                308,687                 -            400,000
Google franchise tax                  30,932                 -             35,000
ARPA funding                         579,035                 -            579,035
Interest earnings                    109,520                 -            125,000
Miscellaneous                          2,765                 -              5,000
Transfers in                           4,297                 -              4,297
Total Revenues              $      1,439,897   $             -   $     1,625,832

Expenses - Administration
ARPA Expense                         609,578                 -            609,578
Non classified expenses                    -                 -              5,000
Total Administration        $       609,578    $             -   $       614,578

Surplus/Deficit             $      830,319     $             -   $    1,011,254
Pleasant Green Cemetery
Yearly Budget                         91.70%                              5/31/2025
                                  Actual to          FY 2024
Revenues                          5/31/2025           Budget           Projected
Sale of lots                            30,679            20,000             32,500
Grave openings                           9,450            20,000             10,000
Other revenue                            8,644             4,500              9,127
Transfers In                                 -                 -                  -
Total Revenues                $         48,773   $       44,500    $        51,627
Expenses - Administration
Grave opening expenses                   9,225                 -              9,500
Cremation expenses                       3,450                 -              3,450
Office supplies                            549                 -                549
Propety tax                              7,536                 -              8,000
Travel/Mileage                               -                 -                  -
Computer equipment/Software                139             2,500                500
Professional and technical              53,362            42,000             55,000
Sundry charges                               -                 -                  -
Total Administration          $         74,261   $       44,500    $        76,999

Total Expenses                $         74,261   $       44,500    $        76,999

Surplus/Deficit               $      (25,488)    $             -   $      (25,372)
Communities that Care
Yearly Budget                            91.70%                              5/31/2025
                                     Actual to          FY 2024
Revenues                             5/31/2025           Budget           Projected
Intergovernmental                               -                 -                  -
Operating transfers in                          -                 -                  -
State Liquor allotment                     56,162            20,000             56,162
Grants -Substane Use Disorder              85,000           125,000             90,000
Grants - Magna CTC                              -           125,000                  -
Grants- Safety & Success                  370,403           500,000            370,403
Grants- Youth advocay                      31,885                 -             35,000
Donations                                       -                 -                  -
Other revenue                                   -                 -                  -
Total Revenues                   $       543,450    $      770,000    $       551,565

Expenses - Administration
Wages                                      53,801            65,000             58,000
Employee Benefits                          20,857            30,000             22,500
Awards                                      3,505                 -              3,750
Subscriptions\Memberships                       -                 -                  -
Travel/Mileage                             62,009                 -             62,500
Office Expense and Supplies                 1,504                 -              1,600
Training and seminars                           -                 -                  -
Contractors                                 6,708                 -              6,800
Programs (Afterschool)                      3,714                 -              4,000
Communications & PR                           959                 -              1,000
Events                                      7,677                 -              7,800
Youth coalition                             3,464                 -              3,500
Sponsorships                               14,033                 -             15,000
Safety and success youth court              2,923                 -              3,000
Youth court                                 5,427                 -              5,500
Safety & success                          193,183           500,000            220,000
Safety & success contractors               12,435                 -             12,500
Beer funds                                      -            20,000             20,000
Reserves                                        -            30,000             30,000
Total Administration             $       392,199    $      645,000    $       477,450


Total Expenses                   $       392,199    $      645,000    $       477,450

Surplus/Deficit                  $      151,251     $     125,000     $       74,115
Magna Community Reinvestment Area
Yearly Budget                   91.70%                                    5/31/2025
                                 Actual to           FY 2024
Revenues                         5/31/2025            Budget           Projected
Property taxes                               -                 -                   -
Other revenue                                -                 -                   -
Transfers In                                 -                 -                   -
Total Revenues               $               -   $             -   $               -

Expenses - Administration
General attorney                       20,220                  -             22,500
Arbor Park development                  3,308                  -              3,308
Professional and technical              2,750                  -              2,750
Utilities - water                           -                  -                  -
Sundry charges                              -                  -                  -
Total Administration         $         26,278    $             -   $        28,558


Total Expenses               $         26,278    $             -   $        28,558

Surplus/Deficit              $      (26,278)     $             -   $      (28,558)
