                              COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
                                 AGENCY OF MAGNA
                                     AGENDA
                                    July 8, 2025
                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

  PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Community Reinvestment Agency (CRA) of
  Magna will hold a business meeting at 5:30 P.M. on the 8th day of July, 2025 at the Webster Center,
  8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

  ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
  of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  Anticipated meeting duration: 30 minutes

  5:30 PM – COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY
  1. CALL TO ORDER
  2. Determine Quorum
  3. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
            Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing
     on this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
     Person’s signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
     Comment” form. Persons addressing the CRA shall step-up to the microphone and give their
     name for the record. The CRA is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to be
     both transparent and responsive, the CRA Board Members cannot respond directly to comments
     during public comment. However, the CRA Executive Director will be responsible for
     responding directly to citizens who request a response. Should an item on tonight's agenda
     generate a question you would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance. Please
     scan the QR code and send your question directly to CRA Staff. The CRA Board will not
     interrupt the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has
     commenced. Comments should be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional
     time is authorized by the Governing Body.

  4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
        a. Approval of the June 10, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes – Diana Baun, Secretary (2
           minutes)
        b. Approval of Resolution R2025-04, Approving the Conveyance of Real Property to Magna
           City – David Brickey
        c. Discussion and Potential Approval of Proposal for Financial/Economic Development
           Advisor for the Magna Community Reinvestment Agency – Dan Torres
        d. Discussion Regarding Recent Updates

  5. CLOSED SESSIONS AS NEEDED PURSUANT TO UTAH STAE CODE §52-4-205
       a. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health
          of an individual.
       b. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
1 | P ag e                         M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
         c. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
         d. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
         e. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

  6. ADJOURN

      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna

When: July 8, 2025 05:30 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada) Register in advance for this meeting at:
https://us06web.zoom.us/meeting/register/mSvmpo2WSz2kTZ8MuhKasA

After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the webinar.

Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, in
support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To request
assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.

A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna
City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at https://www.utah.gov/pmn/.
Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate electronically.
Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED:       July 5, 2025




2 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
                                 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
                                 AGENCY OF MAGNA MEETING
                                 JUNE 10, 2025, 5:30 PM
                                 WEBSTER COMMUNITY CENTER
                                 8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN STREET
                                 MAGNA, UTAH 84044


                COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY MEETING MINUTES
                        **DRAFT MINUTES – UNAPPROVED**

Board Members Present:                                   Board Members Absent:
Eric Barney                                              Steve Prokopis
Audrey Pierce
Mick Sudbury
Trish Hull

Staff Present:
David Brickey, City Manager
Diana Baun, Secretary
Dan Torres
Adam Long, Legal Counsel

Others Present:
None

1. Call to Order

Board Member Eric Barney, presiding, called the meeting to order at 5:30 PM.

2. Determine Quorum

A quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed.

3. PUBLIC COMMENTS

None

4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS

       A. Approval of the May 13, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes

Board Member Sudbury moved to approve the May 13, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes as
published. Board Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 4-0, unanimous in favor.
Board Member Prokopis was absent from the vote.



                             CRA OF MAGNA BOARD MEMBERS
                             ERIC BARNEY, AUDREY PIERCE, TRISH HULL,
                                  STEVE PROKOPIS, MICK SUDBURY
      B. Consideration of Resolution R2025-03, Approving an Interlocal Agreement
         Between the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County and the Community
         Reinvestment Agency of Magna for the Transfer of Property Area Funds

David Brickey stated that the document under discussion finalized the transfer of parcels to the
Community Reinvestment Agency (CRA). He mentioned that he had not yet picked up the key
to the building and was instructed to first obtain signatures from the Magna CRA before the
key would be released. This would allow him access to the building located on Main Street
near the new lunch establishment, just west of Colosimo’s. Board Chair Eric Barney clarified
that the CRA owned all the properties on that block except for the diner and Colosimo’s.

Board Member Sudbury moved to approve Resolution R2025-03, Approving an
Interlocal Agreement Between the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County and the
Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna for the Transfer of Property Area Funds.
Board Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 4-0 in favor. Board Member
Prokopis was absent from the vote.

      C. Discussion Regarding Recent Updates

David Brickey informed the council that the city would be acquiring just over $2 million before
the end of the month and suggested that the council provide guidance on how to proceed,
noting that various options had already been reviewed. Dan Torres explained that the district
still had a few years remaining and that there was an option to extend its duration. Given the
opportunities in Downtown Magna, he recommended considering an extension of the district to
better leverage the funds over a longer period. He also indicated his intention to have a
Municipal Advisory Firm engaged at the Municipal Services District level to assist the
Economic Development Staff with related discussions. To this end, he shared that he had
contacted Zion’s Bank Public Finance and Clearwater Financial, the latter being a firm he had
previously worked with in Idaho. He reported receiving two bids for services. He noted that in
Kearns, similar needs were emerging to assess bonding capacity and that Clearwater
Financial had submitted a proposal covering comprehensive Municipal Advisory Services,
including an economic development study, bond analysis, and the actual bonding process if
desired. He stated that Clearwater Financial’s proposal would provide an all-inclusive service
to the Kearns CRA for $12,000 per year under a 12-month retainer agreement, allowing for
unlimited projects up to 40 hours each. Their initial work would involve assessing revenue
generation and other dynamics within two districts while remaining available for additional
needs across other city districts.

Board Member Hull expressed support for the idea and inquired which part of the Community
Reinvestment Agency would generate the $2.4 million in revenue. She also asked whether
extending the project would require continued additional taxes from the taxpaying entities and
if further permission would be necessary. Dan Torres responded that the funds would come
from the Main Street CRA and explained that if the district were extended, all tax appreciation
value would continue to be directed to the district. He added that he believed there was
justification for pursuing downtown projects that could yield significant revenue. David Brickey
reminded the council that they had the option to enter a closed session if they wished to



      CRA of Magna • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
discuss the matter further. The council ultimately requested an additional month to review the
available options. During this discussion, Dan Torres further explained his reasoning for
favoring Clearwater Financial over Zion’s Bank, noting that while Zion’s Bank was the premier
firm in the state, its hourly cost was considerably higher.

5.   CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED (AS ALLOWED UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205)

      A. Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental
      Health of an Individual.
      B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
      C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
      D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
      E. Other lawful purposes as listing in Utah Code 52-4-205

No Closed Session necessary.

6.   ADJOURN

Board Member Sudbury moved to adjourn the June 10, 2025 Community Reinvestment
Agency of Magna meeting. Board Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 4-0,
unanimous in favor. Board Member Prokopis was absent from the vote.
The June 10, 2025 Magna Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting adjourned at 5:42
PM.


This is a true and correct copy of the June 10, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes, which were
approved on July 8, 2025.


Attest:




                                               Eric Barney, Board Chair




Diana Baun, Secretary




      CRA of Magna • Webster Community Center • 8952 W Magna Main Street • Magna, UT 84044
                  COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY OF MAGNA

                                  RESOLUTION NO. R2025-04

             A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE CONVEYANCE OF REAL
                        PROPERTY TO MAGNA CITY

WHEREAS the Salt Lake County and the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County recently
transferred parcels of real property within Magna to Magna City (the “City”) and the Community
Reinvestment Agency of Magna (the “Agency”) as part of the overall transfer of redevelopment
activities within Magna municipal boundaries; and

WHEREAS two parcels, transferred via quit claim deed to the Agency, are part of the Magna
Neighborhood Park and were intended to be transferred to the City; and

WHEREAS these parcels are likely to remain as a public park operated by the City and are not a
desirable or likely site for economic development activities undertaken by the Agency; and

WHEREAS the Agency is authorized by statute to hold, sell, convey, grant, gift, or otherwise
dispose of any interest in real or personal property and the City is authorized by statute to purchase,
receive, and hold real and personal property for the benefit of the City; and

WHEREAS the Agency desires to formally transfer and convey the parcels located at 2939 South
9150 West (Tax I.D. No. 14-30-252-031-0000) and 2908 South 9100 West (Tax I.D. No. 14-30-
252-029-0000) (together, the “Parcels”) to the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY OF MAGNA AS FOLLOWS:

1.    The Agency is hereby directed and authorized to transfer ownership of the parcels to the
      City, via quit claim deeds (the “Deeds”) in a form approved by Agency legal counsel;

2.    The Chair of the Agency Board is hereby authorized to sign the Deeds on behalf of the
      Agency; and

3.    The Agency is hereby authorized to take all other steps needed to implement this resolution;
      and

4.    This resolution takes effect upon adoption.




                                                                                                     1
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 8th day of July 2025.

                                          COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
                                          AGENCY OF MAGNA




                                          ERIC G. BARNEY, CHAIR

Attest:




DIANA BAUN, SECRETARY




                                                                   2
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Magna City
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah 84044

                                                             Tax I.D. No. 14-30-252-029-0000
                                QUITCLAIM DEED
        COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY OF MAGNA, a body corporate and politic
of the State of Utah (the “Grantor”), for the sum of Ten Dollars ($10.00) and other good and
valuable consideration, hereby quitclaims to MAGNA CITY, a Utah municipal corporation (the
“Grantee”), the parcel of land located at 2908 South 9100 West, Magna City, Salt Lake County,
State of Utah 84044 (the “Property”), and which is more specifically described in Exhibits “A”
and “B,” attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Grantor has caused this Quitclaim Deed to be signed by its
duly authorized officer this ____ day of __________________, 2025.

                                                 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY
                                                 OF MAGNA


                                                 _____________________________________
                                                 Eric Barney, Board Chair

 STATE OF UTAH                            )
                                          §
 COUNTY OF SALT LAKE                      )

        On this _____ day of __________________________, 2025, personally appeared before
 me ERIC BARNEY, who being duly sworn, did say that he is the Chairperson of the governing
 board of the Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna and that the foregoing Quitclaim Deed
 was signed on behalf of said entity by authority of law.

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                 NOTARY PUBLIC
                                 QUITCLAIM DEED
                                    EXHIBIT A

                                  Property Description

                                  2908 South 9100 West
                            Tax I.D. No. 14-30-252-029-0000

BEG S 88°53' W 33 FT & S 00°52' E 180.5 FT FR THE SE COR OF CHAMBERS TOWNSITE
ADDITION NO 1; S 88°53' W 118 FT; S 00°52'E 87.5 FT; N 88°53' E 118 FT; N 00°52' W 87.5
FT TO BEG. (BEING THE S 1/2 OF LOT 35, & ALL OF LOTS 36,37, & 38, BLK 4,
CHAMBERS PARK, AN UNRECORDED PLAT). 0.24 AC M OR L.
QUITCLAIM DEED
   EXHIBIT B
WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

Magna City
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah 84044

                                                             Tax I.D. No. 14-30-252-031-0000
                                QUITCLAIM DEED
        COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY OF MAGNA, a body corporate and politic
of the State of Utah (the “Grantor”), for the sum of Ten Dollars ($10.00) and other good and
valuable consideration, hereby quitclaims to MAGNA CITY, a Utah municipal corporation (the
“Grantee”), the parcel of land located at 2939 South 9150 West, Magna City, Salt Lake County,
State of Utah 84044 (the “Property”), and which is more specifically described in Exhibits “A”
and “B,” attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Grantor has caused this Quitclaim Deed to be signed by its
duly authorized officer this ____ day of __________________, 2025.

                                                 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY
                                                 OF MAGNA


                                                 _____________________________________
                                                 Eric Barney, Board Chair

 STATE OF UTAH                            )
                                          §
 COUNTY OF SALT LAKE                      )

        On this _____ day of __________________________, 2025, personally appeared before
 me ERIC BARNEY, who being duly sworn, did say that he is the Chairperson of the governing
 board of the Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna and that the foregoing Quitclaim Deed
 was signed on behalf of said entity by authority of law.

                                                 _____________________________________
                                                 NOTARY PUBLIC
                              QUITCLAIM DEED
                                 EXHIBIT A

                              Property Description

                               2939 South 9150 West
                         Tax I.D. No. 14-30-252-031-0000

BEG S 00°52'00" E 259 FT FR NW COR LOT 29, BLK 4, CHAMBERS PARK, AN
UNRECORDED PLAT, WHICH IS N 88°53'00" E 335 FT & S 00°52'00" E 34 FT FR SW'LY
COR OF CHAMBERS TOWNSITE ADDITION NO 1; N 88°53'00" E 118 FT; S 00°52'00" E
200 FT; S 88°53'00" W 118 FT; N 00°52'00" W 200 FT TO BEG. 0.517 AC M OR L.
QUITCLAIM DEED
   EXHIBIT B
DATE:           May 8th, 2025
TO:             Daniel Torres, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, Economic
                Development and Long-Range Planning Manager
From:           Cameron Arial, Clearwater Financial, Municipal Advisor Principal
RE:             Municipal Advisory and Professional Services Engagement


Dear Mr. Torres,

Thank you for the opportunity to respond to your request for municipal advisory and professional
support for the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) and its Member
Communities. We at Clearwater Financial appreciate the strategic and community-oriented
vision of the MSD and feel a kinship to the MSDs approach to providing meaningful and value-
added municipal services. We are pleased to offer a comprehensive proposal that reflects both
the scope of services you are seeking and our capacity to deliver them.

Clearwater Financial is a registered municipal advisor with the SEC and MSRB, experienced in
delivering robust public finance, economic development, and advisory services. The following
categories summarize the services offered under a 12-month engagement:

                            Strategic Economic Development Planning
   •    Urban renewal and TIF analysis                   •   Public asset development strategy
   •    Feasibility & market impact studies              •   Public-private partnership (PPP)
   •    Redevelopment & site selection                       facilitation

                                     Municipal Advisory Services
   •    Financing strategy & debt capacity               •   Team coordination (bond counsel,
   •    Bond issuance & structuring guidance                 underwriters, etc.)
   •    Fund balance & credit rating analysis            •   Project pro forma development

                                  Infrastructure and CIP Financing
   •    Capital improvement funding                      •   Professional Services RFQ/RFP
   •    State & federal financing programs               •   Structuring of incentive programs
   •    Treasury and fund reinvestment                   •   Developer industry attraction

                             Community and Stakeholder Engagement
   •    Public surveys & outreach campaigns              •   Intergovernmental coordination & JPA
   •    Media, branding, & messaging                         facilitation
   •    Website & social media strategy

                              Grant Writing and Incentive Structuring
   •    Grant identification & application               •   State & local incentive programs and tax
        preparation                                          reimbursements
   •    Economic & financial analysis

Fee Structure
Clearwater Financial proposes a flexible fee model that includes both retainer-based and
project-specific pricing:
   •   Professional Services Annual Retainer
           o A fixed $12,000 annual retainage, billed upon execution and annually thereafter
           o Covers general advisory, planning, engagement, economic development, and
               grant support.
   •   Addendum Services (Project-Based)
           o Professional Services projects exceeding 45 hours will be scoped and priced
               through a mutually approved addendum agreement with a not-to-exceed cap.
           o This structure ensures flexibility and accountability for larger efforts.
   •   Municipal Advisory Services: Fees are based on the size of the financing and are billed
       per issuance as follows:
           o $0 to $5MM:                     $27,500
           o $5MM to $10MM:                  $27,500 + $3.00 per $1,000 over $5MM
           o $10MM+:                         $38,750 + $1.75 per $1,000 over $10MM
           o $50MM+:                         $108,750+ $0.75 per bond over $50MM

Invoices will be issued monthly for Professional Services and at closing for Municipal Advisory
Services. Reasonable travel and out-of-pocket expenses will be billed separately as incurred.

Support for Multi-Community Service Delivery
We recognize the diverse needs of MSD’s Member Communities, and our firm is experienced in
providing scalable services across multiple jurisdictions. For example, we’ve successfully
supported regional planning efforts across city-county collaborations, tailoring solutions to each
entity’s development stage and governance structure.

Our approach will include:
   • A designated liaison for MSD coordination
   • Tailored strategies for each community’s economic and infrastructure context
   • Integrated communication plans for community-wide engagement

If relevant projects, references and/or additional information on any aspect of our response are
needed, we are happy to provide it upon request. We look forward to the opportunity to
showcasing our expertise in greater detail and look forward to initiating scope refinement,
project identification and prioritization. Please feel free to contact me at your convenience with
any questions.

Respectfully,



Cameron Arial
President, Municipal Advisor Principal




                                                 2
  Request for Municipal Advisory &
  Consulting Services

Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna
                                 July 2025
                                              Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services



Zions Public Finance, Inc.
1 South Main Street, 18th Floor
Salt Lake City, UT 84133
385.377.3361
erik.daenitz@zionsbancorp.com

2 July 2025

Daniel Torres
Economic Development and Long-Range Planning Manager
Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah 84044
385.226.2797
dtorres@CRA.utah.gov

RE: REQUEST FOR QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL ADVISORY AND CONSULTING SERVICES

Dear Daniel Torres:

Zions Public Finance, Inc. (ZPFI) enthusiastically submits this response to your recent inquiry
relating to future municipal advisory and consulting services for the Community Reinvestment
Agency of Magna (CRA).

ZPFI has extensive experience and reach through both our registered municipal advisors and
integrated consulting team. We believe we are well-positioned to aid your initiatives ranging from
financial and capital markets advisory to economic development, planning, and fiscal forecasting.

Furthermore, we have proposed a flexible cost structure that will allow you to engage our services
when you need them while minimizing overhead costs to the taxpayer. We believe that our flexible
proposal will allow you to meet an array of objectives and give you maximum discretion to tailor our
collaboration to your needs.

ZPFI has a track record of closing billions of dollars of tax-exempt debt issuance, providing
economic and fiscal impact analysis on some of the State of Utah’s largest development vehicles,
and writing reports and presentations that are objective, detailed, and follow the requirements of
Utah Code. We thank you for your inquiry and look forward to the opportunity to continue working
with you!

Best Regards,



Erik S. Daenitz | Vice President
erik.daenitz@zionsbancorp.com
385.377.3361




                                                                                                     2
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                               Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services



QUALIFICATIONS & EXPERIENCE

Zions First National Bank was founded in Salt Lake City in 1873 and continues its legacy of strength
and stability as one of the oldest financial institutions in the Intermountain West. To bring value to
individuals, small- to middle-market businesses, nonprofits, corporations, and institutions, Zions
Bank provides a wide range of traditional banking and innovative services

Zions Public Finance, Inc. (ZPFI), a department of Zions Bank, is comprised of a team of 21
professionals committed to providing unparalleled service to municipal entities, local districts,
government agencies and private clients throughout Utah and the Intermountain West. We have
two primary service areas: 1) financial advisory services used to assist governmental entities in the
bonding and disclosure/reporting process; and 2) municipal consulting services focusing on
economic development, planning, real estate development advisory and fee-related services.

Zions’ staff includes 13 licensed municipal securities representatives and statistical, GIS, and
financial consultants. Our team has credentials in business, mathematics, economics, public
administration, and a variety of other disciplines. Our staff has been represented with membership
in the Utah League of Cities and Towns, Utah Economic Alliance, Utah Redevelopment
Association, Utah Association of Special Districts, Wasatch Front Regional Council Economic
Development Strategy Committee, UTA Transit-Oriented Development Implementation Advisory
Board, the Government Finance Officers Association, and a host of others. In addition, we have the
full resources of Zions Bank at our disposal, which include commercial banking and real estate
departments, the investment division consisting of the tax-exempt municipal bond portfolio and
capital markets, and all the public finance resources nationwide.

The ZPFI advisory team has closed billions of dollars of bond issuance that is too numerous to
number. Additionally, the table below provides a non-exhaustive list of some of our recent client
work and experience.

 Client                                              Project
 American Fork, Utah                                 American Fork Station Analysis
 Bear River Water Conservancy District               Financial Planning Model
 Box Elder County, Utah                              RDA Report
 Brigham City, Utah                                  RDA Report
 Cache County, Utah                                  Conference Center and Fairground Market Study
 Cedar City, Utah                                    Community Reinvestment Area Analysis
 Chubbuck, Idaho                                     Impact Fees
 Clearfield, Utah                                    Clearfield Station Analysis
 Clinton, Utah                                       Impact Fees
 Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control            Master Plan
 Draper, Utah                                        Housing Study
 Envision Utah                                       Point of the Mountain Financial Model
 Ephraim, Utah                                       Business License Fee Study
                                                     Impact Fees
 Farmington, Utah
                                                     Water Rate Analysis



                                                                                                      3
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                                    Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services



 Client                                                  Project
 Heber, Utah                                             Sales Leakage Analysis
                                                         Community Reinvestment Area Analysis
                                                         Impact Fees
 Herriman, Utah                                          Financial Sustainability Model
                                                         Herriman Hills Feasibility Study
                                                         Water Rate Study
 Heyburn, Idaho                                          Water and Sewer Rate Study
 Highland, Utah                                          Development Center Financial Model
                                                         Redevelopment of Cottonwood Mall Financial
 Holladay, Utah                                          Model
                                                         Syracuse Town Center
 Kearns Improvement District                             Water Rate Analysis
                                                         Water Rate Analysis
 Layton, Utah
                                                         Transportation Impact Fee Analysis
 Lehi, Utah                                              Utility Rates Study
 Lake Point Cemetery and Parks Service Area              Impact Fees
                                                         Impact Fees
 Manila, Utah
                                                         Utility Rates Study
 Mapleton, Utah                                          Financial Sustainability Model
 Marriott-Slaterville, Utah                              Business License Fee Study
 McCall, Idaho                                           Housing Study
 Mesa, Arizona                                           Fiesta District Tax Revenue Analysis
 Millard County, Utah                                    Landfill Rate Study
                                                         Impact Fees
 Millcreek, Utah                                         General Plan
                                                         Town Center Analysis
                                                         Water Impact Fee Analysis
 Moab, Utah
                                                         Community Reinvestment Area Analysis
                                                         Impact Fees
 Morgan, Utah
                                                         RDA Report
 Mountainland Association of Governments                 Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy
 Mountain Green Fire District                            Financial Model
 Mountain Regional Water Special Service District        Water Rate Analysis
                                                         RDA Report
 Murray, Utah
                                                         Water Rate Study
 North Logan, Utah                                       Business License Fee Study
 North View Fire District                                Impact Fees
                                                         Central Station Plan
                                                         Development Fee Study
 Orem, Utah                                              Economic Plan
                                                         Impact Fees
                                                         Rental Unit Fees



                                                                                                           4
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                                 Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services



 Client                                               Project
                                                      Park City Main Street Area Plan
                                                      Park City Bonanza Park Code Feasibility &
 Park City, Utah                                      Redevelopment Analysis
                                                      Water Financial Model
                                                      Storm Water Financial Model
 Park City Fire Service District                      Impact Fees
 Payson, Utah                                         Impact Fees
 Plain City, Utah                                     Impact Fees
                                                      Water Rate Analysis
 Pleasant View, Utah
                                                      RDA Report
 Powder Mountain                                      Community Development Area Analysis
 Providence, Utah                                     Transportation Impact Fee Analysis
 Provo, Utah                                          Impact Fees
 Rexburg, Idaho                                       Impact Fees
 Rio Tinto                                            Rio Tinto Site Market Study
                                                      Financial Model
 Riverdale, Utah
                                                      Fire Agency’s Feasibility Study
 Queen Creek, Arizona                                 Growth Projections
                                                      Northwest Quadrant CRA Benefits Analysis
                                                      Station Area Plan
 Salt Lake City, Utah
                                                      Block 67 Development Financial Analysis
                                                      Stadler Development Financial Analysis
                                                      Housing Study
                                                      Kearns Blight Study
 Salt Lake County, Utah
                                                      CRA Financial Model
                                                      Wasatch Canyons Economic Impacts
                                                      Financial Sustainability Model
 Saratoga Springs, Utah                               Planning and Engineering Fee Study
                                                      Sewer Rate Study
                                                      Impact Fees
 Snyderville Basis Special Recreation District
                                                      Needs Assessment
 South Davis Sewer District                           Sewer Rate Study
 South Jordan, Utah                                   Water Rate Analysis
 South Summit Fire District                           Impact Fees
                                                      Impact Fees
 South Weber, Utah                                    Utility Rates Analyses
                                                      Business License Fee Study
                                                      Financial Model
 Stansbury Park Improvement District
                                                      Impact Fees
                                                      Utah HB280 Water Fee/Tax Study
 State of Utah                                        Utah DABS Site Selection Study
                                                      Financial Advisor to State of Utah



                                                                                                        5
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                                 Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services



 Client                                               Project
                                                      Community Development Fee Study
 Summit County, Utah                                  Landfill Rate Study
                                                      Canyons Employee Housing Cost-Benefit Analysis
                                                      RDA Report
 Syracuse, Utah                                       Storm Drain Impact Fee Analysis
                                                      Town Center Analysis
                                                      Crossroads Market Analysis
 Taylorsville, Utah
                                                      Impact Fees
 Taylorsville-Bennion Improvement District            Water and Wastewater Rate Structure Study
 Timber Lakes Water Special Service District          Water Rate Analysis
 Tremonton, Utah                                      Economic Plan
 Unified Fire Service Area                            Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee Analysis
                                                      Bus Rapid Transport Economic Impact Analysis,
 Utah Transit Authority                               Provo-Orem
                                                      Financial Consulting
 Washington City, Utah                                Community Reinvestment Area Analysis
 Washington County Solid Waste Special Service
                                                      Landfill Rate Study
 District
 Washington County Water Conservancy District         Financial Model
                                                      Ambulance Feasibility Analysis
 Washington Terrace, Utah
                                                      Economic Plan
                                                      Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy
 Wasatch Front Regional Council                       Regional REMM Model
                                                      White Paper - Transportation Reinvestment Zones
 Westchester County, New York                         Incorporation Feasibility Study
 West Haven, Utah                                     Market Study



REFERENCES

Client: Brett Wood                                      Client: Mark Christensen
        Herriman City Manager                                   Saratoga Springs City Manager
        801.446.5323                                            801.766.9793
        bwood@herriman.org                                      markc@saratogaspringscity.com

Client: John Borget                                     Client: Matthew Dias
        Provo City Business Administrator                       Park City Municipal City Manager
        801.852.6504                                            435.565.0617
        jBorget@provo.utah.gov                                  matt.dias@parkcity.org




                                                                                                           6
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                                  Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


OUR TEAM

        Johnathan Ward
        Senior Vice President
        Zions Public Finance, Inc. | Municipal Advisor

                             Since joining Zions Public Finance in 2001, Johnathan has led on 564
                             municipal financings totaling over $6.9 billion in par. Johnathan serves as
                             advisor to many of the most sophisticated debt issuers in Utah including:
                             the State of Utah, Salt Lake County, and the Metropolitan Water District
                             of Salt Lake & Sandy.

                           Johnathan manages all the public finance activities at Zions in both Utah
        and Idaho. Johnathan serves as a member of the Board of Directors of the Utah Association
        of Special Districts, as an ex-officio member of the Utah State Finance Review
        Commission, on the Extended Advisory Board for the Romney Institute of Public
        Management, and at times as an adjunct faculty member at the Marriott School of Business
        at Brigham Young University.

        Recent Transactions:
           ▪ Jordanelle Ridge Public Infrastructure District No. 2 – Series 2023 – $36.62M Limited
               Tax General Obligation Bonds
           ▪ Auto Mall and Retail Public Infrastructure District – Series 2023AB - $16.1M Senior
               and Sub-ordinate Limited Tax General Obligation & Convertible Capital
               Appreciation Bonds
           ▪ Utah Housing Corporation – Series 2025AB - $225M Tax-Exempt and Taxable Single
               Family Mortgage Bonds

        Licenses:
            ▪ Series 50 – Municipal Advisor Representative
            ▪ Series 52 – Municipal Securities Representative
            ▪ Series 53 – Municipal Securities Principal
            ▪ Series 54 – Municipal Advisor Principal

        Education:
           ▪ Brigham Young University – Master of Public Administration
           ▪ Brigham Young University – Bachelor of Arts

        Japheth McGee
        Senior Vice President
        Zions Public Finance, Inc. | Municipal Advisor

                           Since joining Zions Public Finance in 2018, Japheth has led on 120
                           municipal financings totaling over $1.65 billion in par. Japheth serves as
                           advisor to entities across Utah including: the Granger-Hunter Improvement
                           District, Unified Fire Service Area, Utah Tech University, and as back-up
                           advisor to the State of Utah and Salt Lake County.



                                                                                                         2
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                              Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


         Japheth performs complex debt structuring analysis, review of financing alternatives,
         recommendations on the method of sale, and credit rating analysis for municipal
         transactions. Japheth has a Bachelor’s degree from Utah Valley University and an MPA
         from Indiana University’s O’Neill School of Public and Environmental Affairs. He currently
         serves as the Chair of Bluffdale City’s Budget Re-view Committee and as an adjunct
         professor of Government and Non-Profit Budgeting at Brigham Young University.

        Recent Transactions:
           ▪ Unified Fire Service Area, $30M Tax and Revenue Anticipation Notes, Series 2025
           ▪ Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area, $15.5M Tax and Revenue
               Anticipation Notes, Series 2025
           ▪ Beaver City, $2M Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2025
           ▪ Beaver City, $2.5M Electric Revenue Bonds, Series 2025
           ▪ Ephraim City, $5.5M Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2025

        Licenses:
            ▪ Series 50 – Municipal Advisor Representative
            ▪ Series 52 – Municipal Securities Representative

        Education:
            ▪ Indiana University – Master of Public Affairs – Concentration: Public Finance
            ▪ Utah Valley University – Bachelor of Arts: Political Science – Emphasis: American
                Government

        Erik S. Daenitz
        Vice President
        Zions Public Finance, Inc. | Municipal Consulting

                          Erik provides experience working in municipal finance, budgeting,
                          economic development, statistical analysis, and fixed income portfolio
                          construction. At ZPFI, he has completed multiple economic and housing
                          analyses incorporated in general plans and areas plans, along with water,
                          sewer, pressurized irrigation, and storm water rates studies. He is
                          currently leading Utah’s HB280 Water Fee Study and recently completed
                          economic and fiscal analysis on Park City’s Main Street Area Plan. He also
                          serves as a financial modeler to Weber County on a highest and best use
        redevelopment of City-owned property on Ogden’s 25th Street. Prior to joining ZPFI, Erik
        worked for Park City Municipal Corporation as its Deputy Budget Director overseeing
        capital projects and revenue forecasting and then as Park City’s Director of Economic
        Development and Data Analytics. Prior to his time in the public sector he worked in Fixed
        Income Portfolio Construction and Risk Management at Goldman Sachs Asset
        Management.

        As economic development director, Erik was heavily involved in negotiating Park City’s
        pending public-private partnership and PID with Deer Valley Resort, while also overseeing
        the City’s Lower Park Avenue RDA. He also served as an internal statistical consultant to
        the City’s departments and helped develop new techniques for forecasting Park City’s
        sales taxes. Additionally, he collaborated with the City’s public utilities department to


                                                                                                      3
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                               Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


        develop a new water rates structure along with fiscal impact forecasts. Erik has a
        bachelor’s degree in Mass Communication: News Editorial from the University of Utah and
        is completing a second bachelor's degree in Mathematics: Applied Statistics also from the
        University of Utah.

        Erik’s experience includes:
          ▪ Park City Main Street Area Plan
          ▪ Holladay General Plan Housing and Economic Analysis
          ▪ Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services 2024 Master Plan
          ▪ WFRC Power District Transportation Study Economic Impact and Feasibility
          ▪ North Salt Lake General Plan
          ▪ Weber County 25th Street Highest and Best Use Analysis and Public-Private Partnership
            Advising
          ▪ Salt Lake Mosquito Abatement District Fiscal Sustainability Model and Scenario Analysis
          ▪ Heber City Water, Sewer, Storm Water and Pressurized Irrigation rates models and
            forecast
          ▪ Wellsville City Water Rates Model
          ▪ Park City 2024 Water Impact Fee Analysis
          ▪ Park City General Fund financial model and long-term forecasting
          ▪ Park City Capital Fund financial model and long-term forecasting
          ▪ Park City Performance Measurements PC Stat program
          ▪ Park City Sales Tax model and projections
          ▪ Park City Lower Park RDA budgeting and state reporting
          ▪ Park City Public-Private Partnership negotiations with $15Mn+ public benefits package
          ▪ “Peak Day” multi-factor demand detection model for Park City transportation and
            economic development teams using principal components analysis
          ▪ GSAM $2Bn+ Strategic Income Fund financial reporting model
          ▪ GSAM $500Mn+ Commodity Strategy Fund financial reporting model
          ▪ GSAM private mortgage REIT product model
          ▪ Fund flows dashboard for $300Bn+ GSAM money market fund complex
          ▪ Volatility-weighted G10 interest rate trading model for GSAM hedge funds
          ▪ GSAM money market reform GSAM.com digital web reporting

        Susan C. Becker, AICP
        Vice President
        Zions Public Finance, Inc. | Municipal Consulting

                           For the past 30 years, Susie has specialized in economic consulting and
                           planning and has been the lead consultant on some of the largest and
                           most challenging projects in the intermountain region. Susie is currently
                           working on funding mechanisms for the large Point of the Mountain
                           project that spans Salt Lake and Utah counties, has testified before the
                           Governor’s Legislative Task Force on economic policies and procedures
                           in Utah, has been involved with numerous general plan and economic
        strategic plans, as well as the creation of a multitude of community reinvestment areas.
        She chaired the public-private partnerships committee for the State’s Economic Plan and
        reviews HTRZ applications for GOEO. Her experience stretches from issues such as
        affordable housing concerns in resort communities like McCall, ID, to redevelopment of a



                                                                                                       4
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                              Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


        large deteriorating commercial center in Mesa, AZ – the Fiesta District. She has an MBA
        degree, AICP and a securities license (Series 50 and 52).

        Susie’s experience includes:

           ▪ North Temple Mobility Hub Study
           ▪ Bountiful General Plan and Downtown Redevelopment Options
           ▪ Saratoga Springs Market Analysis for Commercial Center
           ▪ North Ogden Commercial Center Market Analysis
           ▪ Mesa, AZ Southwest Redevelopment Area Plan
           ▪ Eagle Mountain General Plan and Economic Plan
           ▪ South Ogden Economic Plan and General Plan
           ▪ Clinton Economic Plan
           ▪ West Point Market Analysis and Small Area Plan and General Plan
           ▪ Murray Downtown Market Analysis and General Plan
           ▪ Salt Lake City Northwest Quadrant CRA Benefits Analysis
           ▪ South Jordan City Redwood Road Corridor Market Study
           ▪ Cottonwood Heights Fort Unit Corridor & Gravel Pits Market Analysis
           ▪ Lehi Downtown Revitalization Plan
           ▪ Creation of Numerous RDA, URA, EDA, CDA and CRA Areas
           ▪ Cache Corridor Strategic Plan and General Plan
           ▪ Herriman Economic Strategic Plan and General Plan
           ▪ South Jordan City Economic Strategic Plan
           ▪ Tooele County Economic Strategic Plan
           ▪ Lehi Economic Development Strategic Plan
           ▪ Riverton Moderate-Income Housing Study
           ▪ Draper Moderate-Income Housing Study
           ▪ Orem Economic Strategic Plan
           ▪ West Valley City Center Market Analysis
           ▪ West Utah Lake Vision Plan
           ▪ Taylorsville 5400 South Market and Valuation Analysis
           ▪ Vineyard Town Center Market Study and Geneva URA
           ▪ Holladay General Plan
           ▪ Rawlins, Wyoming Economic Plan and General Plan
           ▪ Lincoln County, Wyoming Economic Plan
           ▪ Orem City Center Master Plan
           ▪ Point of Mountain Funding Analysis
           ▪ Rexburg ID General Plan
           ▪ Madison County ID General Plan
           ▪ Twin Falls ID General Plan
           ▪ Nibley General Plan




                                                                                                     5
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                                 Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


OUR APPROACH

ZPFI outlines our approach, according to your requirements, below to tailor our services to your
needs.

    SERVICES INCLUDED IN 12-MONTH CONTRACT FOR THE CRA AND ITS MEMBER
    COMMUNITIES


    ZPFI will make all our services available to the CRA and its member communities. These
    services are available in two primary categories.

    First, our registered advisors will provide any financial advisory, loan structuring, and debt
    issuance services you may require. Our advisors will also be available to discuss market
    conditions, run hypothetical analyses, and prepare any necessary documentation should the
    need arise. We provide additional details on potential municipal advisory services below.

        ▪    Render financial advice and assistance on fiscal matters pertaining to debt policies and
             procedures, the level and trend of fund balances, debt ratios, funding options, and the
             issuance and sale of the Agency’s securities, including notes, bonds, leases, loans and
             other forms of securities or financings.
        ▪    Provide written advice and recommendations concerning financing structures including
             length of amortization, ratings and insurance, maturity schedules, interest rates, call
             provisions, premiums and discounts, security provisions, coverage covenants, and
             other terms of existing or proposed debt.
        ▪    Assist in the selection of other financing team members including, but not limited to,
             bond counsel, disclosure counsel, underwriter(s), trustees, paying agents, bond
             registrars, escrow agents, escrow verification agents, rating agencies, bond insurers,
             arbitrage rebate consultants, market analysts, cash flow CPAs and any other parties
             engaged in providing services for the financing in question.
        ▪    Work cooperatively with the Agency’s other financing professionals to the end that
             securities may be legally and successfully sold and issued.
        ▪    Advise and assist in selecting the most advantageous method of sale.
        ▪    If a negotiated sale is deemed most advantageous to the District, Zions will assist in
             soliciting and analyzing underwriter proposals and selecting the underwriter(s). Zions
             will also provide advice regarding the underwriter’s compensation and the
             appropriateness of the yields, coupons, and other terms proposed by the
             underwriter(s).
        ▪    If a competitive sale is selected, Zions will coordinate with the provider of the electronic
             platform and provide all information necessary to offer the securities using this method.
             Zions will verify the calculation of the winning bidder and restructure the maturities to
             provide the District with its desired payment structure.
        ▪    Attend meetings as requested by the District to discuss and formulate plans about
             proposed financings. This may include public hearings and meetings of the Agency’s
             governing body.
        ▪    Assist the District in its preparation of financing documents, data, and other
             information as may be required by any state or federal agency, rating agencies, bond
             insurers and underwriters.


                                                                                                        6
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                                Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


        ▪    Assist with the review of an Official Statement, private offering memorandum, or other
             offering documents (each an “Offering Document”) for each financing transaction,
             setting forth financial and other information about the District and the bonds or other
             debt instrument being offered for sale.
        ▪    Participate in a "Due Diligence" meeting of the District prior to the finalization and
             distribution of any Offering Document to assist the District with disclosing full and
             complete disclosure of all information which could be considered "material" to any
             purchaser of bonds. The District understands that as a condition of marketing the
             bonds, it will be necessary to authorize and direct its appropriate officers to execute a
             certificate and/or other closing documents, confirming the truth and accuracy of all
             information contained in the preliminary and final Offering Document. Except as
             otherwise provided herein, Zions is not responsible for certifying as to the accuracy or
             completeness of any preliminary or final Offering Document, other than with respect to
             any information about Zions provided by Zions for inclusion in such documents.
        ▪    Deliver the Offering Document, together with the Notice of Sale, to underwriters or
             potential purchasers of the District 's securities.
        ▪    Submit information concerning the proposed financing(s) to selected rating agencies to
             obtain favorable ratings on the Agency’s financings, when applicable. If requested,
             Zions will organize, assist in the preparation of, and participate in the Agency’s
             presentations made to rating agencies, bond insurers, or investors in New York City,
             San Francisco, or other locations.
        ▪    Coordinate the closing of the debt issue, including the transfer of funds and the delivery
             of the securities to the underwriter(s) or purchaser(s).
        ▪    Assist with post-closing compliance issues such as private use and tax-exemption
             issues, audits by regulators or federal agencies, arbitrage compliance, etc.
        ▪    Monitor market conditions to identify refunding opportunities for interest savings.
             Analyze savings in refunding proposals made by other market participants.


    Second, our consultants will also provide our full suite of services to the CRA and your member
    communities by collaborating with your staff and community stakeholders on projects ranging
    from economic development and fiscal sustainability analysis to planning, fee studies, and
    more. We provide additional detail on potential consulting services below.

        ▪    Provide economic and fiscal impact analysis on any new development activity in your
             communities. We proceed from future land use plans, research market conditions, and
             develop flexible, Excel-based models to project the economic impact of new
             developments. We then proceed to calculate fiscal impacts understanding the revenue
             authorities of any development vehicle, ranging from a State land authority to a
             Community Redevelopment Agency (CRA) and/or Public Infrastructure District (PID).
             We will also calculate service delivery costs for growth should you desire.
        ▪    Study, write and deliver economic development and moderate-income housing plans in
             accordance with the requirements of Utah code.
        ▪    Conduct gross taxable sales relative value and performance analysis for any member
             communities to highlight where communities outperform or underperform peers on
             sales generation or loss, providing valuable insights for market incentives and
             opportunities for economic growth and evolution in a community.




                                                                                                       7
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                               Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


        ▪    Provide public-private partnership (P3) negotiating strategies, asset valuation, and
             advice in the case any member communities should seek to engage a developer in a P3.
        ▪    Provide public benefits analysis in the case of below-market P3 deal terms. We will
             conduct the analysis in-line and as required by Utah Code section 10-8-2 in the case
             that the CRA or its communities may transact real property at a below market rate.
        ▪    Perform impact fee analysis (IFA) in collaboration with engineering teams across an
             array of qualifying improvement plans. ZPFI has an extensive history providing clear and
             defensible IFAs on water, storm water, transportation, parks and recreation, and public
             safety impact fees.
        ▪    Build models and deliver water, storm water, and sewer rate studies, optimizing for cost
             effectiveness and fiscal sustainability.
        ▪    Develop and deliver fiscal sustainability models and plans for any/all municipal funds
             under the supervision of the CRA or any of its member agencies. Based on available
             data, we will develop both revenue and expense forecasts for your funds. We may also
             provide multiple scenario analyses at your request, along with consulting on best data
             and accounting practices in order to drive maximum transparency and accuracy in any
             potential models. We will work to provide model user guides and train your staff to run
             these models should you desire.
        ▪    Review grant proposals and offer feedback on any grant proposal or responses
        ▪    Host community engagement forums and community surveys in coordination with the
             CRA and its member agencies.
        ▪    Aid in the development of or lead area plans for sub-sections of Cities or any specified
             geographic region inside of the member communities of the CRA.


    PROPOSED APPROACH FOR MULTI-COMMUNITY SERVICE DELIVERY


    We propose a collaborative approach with the CRA. Firstly, we propose a primary stakeholder
    and point of contact for our relationship with the CRA. This person will channel and
    communicate key priorities between ZPFI, the CRA, and its member agencies. Subsequently,
    and depending on project, we propose integration of additional staff and municipal council
    members and staff on a project-dependent basis. For example, on projects associated with
    debt issuance, collaboration with finance staff will be essential. However, on other projects,
    such as area plans or economic development plans, we will seek to establish and advisory
    committee of key staff, municipal council members, and in come cases members of the public.

    We believe that our existing and strong relationship with the CRA provides us an ability to have
    seamless lines of communication with your team, and will staff and deliver services
    accordingly. All ZPFIs services will be available for your team as you determine appropriate.




                                                                                                       8
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
                                               Request for Municipal Advisory & Consulting Services


FEE SCHEDULE AND STRUCTURE

Please see our proposed fee schedule and pricing structure below. We do not propose or require a
retainer.

In the case of financial advisory, debt structuring, and issuance services, prices are based on a per
issuance basis and are listed below. Speaking with our municipal advisors for general advice,
market information, or questions does not carry a fee.

    ▪   For General Obligation Bonds, $2.00 per $1,000 of proceeds delivered with a minimum of
        $15,000.
    ▪   For Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, $2.25 per $1,000 of proceeds delivered with a minimum of
        $17,000.
    ▪   For Utility Revenue Bonds, $2.25 per $1,000 of proceeds delivered with a minimum of
        $18,000.
    ▪   For Lease Revenue Bonds, $2.50 per $1,000 of proceeds delivered with a minimum of
        $19,000.
    ▪   For Tax Increment Bonds, $3.00 per $1,000 of proceeds delivered with a minimum of
        $21,000.
    ▪   For Special Assessment Bonds, $4.00 per $1,000 of proceeds delivered with a minimum of
        $25,000

In the case of engaging our consulting services, we are happy to provide you cost estimates for any
work to be completed on a project-by-project basis not to exceed a specified amount. Additionally,
we can perform work for you on an on-call basis. Whichever preference you may have, our hourly
rates are a key input to our fees and these rates are listed below.

    ▪   Vice President Hourly Rate - $300/hour
    ▪   Analyst Hourly Rate - $150/hour

CONCLUSION


ZPFI provide industry-leading expertise along with the depth and breadth of the Zions Bank
platform to cater to a range of your municipal advisory and consulting needs. We value long-term
relationships with our clients and are excited about the opportunity to continue to collaborate with
the CRA. Our proposal and costs are flexible and can be tailored to your project specific needs.
Whether it is debt market access, competitive pricing, our insightful training, and studies, ZPFI is
prepared to work with you side-by-side toward the goals of the Magna CRA.




                                                                                                      9
Zions Public Finance, Inc. | July 2025
