                       MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                         SPECIAL W0RKSHOP WITH THE
                            PLANNING COMMSSION
                                 August 16, 2022

                                       Webster Center
                                 8952 West Magna Main Street
                                      Magna, Utah 84044

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna Metro Township Council will hold a special
workshop with the Planning Commission on the 16th day of August 2022 at the Webster Center,
8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

This meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically for members of the staff and/or
public that cannot attend due to continuing concerns regarding COVID-19, other health reasons,
or other reasons. Those interested in attending electronically should follow the information noted
at the end of this agenda. **

6:00 PM – SPECIAL WORKSHOP

DISCUSSION ITEM

1. Discuss Titles 18 & 19 of the Magna Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances, Phase One [Brian
   Tucker, Planning Manager]

2. ADJOURN

Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District,
in support of the Magna Metro Township, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in
the meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna
Metro Township website at www.magnametrotownship.org and the State Public Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov . Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate
electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-205, Parts of Meetings may be Closed for Reasons
Allowed by Statute.

POSTED:       August 13, 2022




1|Page                 www.magnametrotownship.org
                       MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                         SPECIAL W0RKSHOP WITH THE
                            PLANNING COMMSSION
                                 August 16, 2022

                                       Webster Center
                                 8952 West Magna Main Street
                                      Magna, Utah 84044

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna Metro Township Council will hold a special
workshop with the Planning Commission on the 16th day of August 2022 at the Webster Center,
8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

This meeting will be held at the anchor location and electronically for members of the staff and/or
public that cannot attend due to continuing concerns regarding COVID-19, other health reasons,
or other reasons. Those interested in attending electronically should follow the information noted
at the end of this agenda. **

6:00 PM – SPECIAL WORKSHOP

DISCUSSION ITEM

1. Discuss Titles 18 & 19 of the Magna Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances, Phase One [Brian
   Tucker, Planning Manager]

2. ADJOURN

Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District,
in support of the Magna Metro Township, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in
the meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna
Metro Township website at www.magnametrotownship.org and the State Public Notice Website at
http://pmn.utah.gov . Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate
electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-205, Parts of Meetings may be Closed for Reasons
Allowed by Statute.

POSTED:       August 13, 2022




1|Page                 www.magnametrotownship.org
            MEMORANDUM: MAGNA 2022 ORDINANCE UPDATES – PHASE ONE

TO: Magna Planning Commission and Council

FROM: Brian Tucker

DATE: August 5th, 2022

                                           SUMMARY

MSD Planning & Development Services Staff (“PDS”) have been tasked by the Metro Townships
and Town of Brighton to lead ordinance update efforts for each respective community. For the
remainder of 2022, PDS will be drafting revisions to Titles 18 & 19, Zoning and Subdivision
Ordinances, respectively. Staff will work closely with the Planning Commission and Council to
review drafted materials and lead ordinance revisions through the formal adoption process. This
project has an anticipated end date of December 2022. Materials included in this memorandum
represent the first phase of ordinances drafted for the Magna Metro Township by MSD Planning
& Development Services.

Exhibit A includes drafted versions of the following:

   •   Chapter 19.04 Definitions
   •   Chapter 19.22 Parks and Open Space Zones
   •   Chapter 19.26 Agricultural Zones
   •   Chapter 19.28 Single-Family Residential Zones
   •   Chapter 19.29 Residential Mobile Home Park Zone
   •   Chapter 19.30 Medium and High Density Residential Zones
   •   Chapter 19.32 Commercial Zones
   •   Chapter 19.34 Manufacturing Zones
   •   Chapter 19.36 Mixed-Use Zone

Staff recommends that several zones be removed from Magna’s Zoning Ordinance. Zones
recommended for removal include Forestry, Foothills Agricultural, Office Research Park and
Development, the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, and Forestry and Recreation Zones. None
of these zones are currently applied in the community.




                                            Page 1 of 7
Land Use Ordinances determine the use, development, and subdivision of property within a
municipality. A municipality’s right to implement land use ordinances is tied to its “Police Power”
(or to the essential task of protecting public health, safety, and welfare). Private property rights
are balanced with public needs, in order to ensure safe, equitable, and sustainable development.

The 2022 Land Use Ordinance revisions are intended to accomplish several objectives, including:

   •   Ensuring compliance with State Legislation.
   •   Encouraging conformity with adopted General Plans.
   •   Promoting ease of use for both staff and residents.
   •   Meeting the unique needs and preserving the character of the community.

                                BACKGROUND AND ANALYSIS

Pre-Analysis: In the first quarter of 2022, Erin O’Kelley (Long Range Planner) performed an in-
depth analysis of existing Title 19 Ordinances to provide a basis from which the project team could
begin their revisions. This analysis helped the team understand how much time to allot to various
tasks, such as removing outdated sections or obsolete zoning districts, consolidating materials for
ease of use, and updating language to reflect recent legislative changes and the vision of the
Magna General Plan. Figure 1 comprehensively portrays the work that staff estimates needs to be
completed on Kearns’ Ordinances.

                  Figure 1: Estimation of Magna’s Title 19 Needed Actions.




                                     Credit: MSD PDS, 2022.

                                            Page 2 of 7
The bar chart is color-coded to show changes that staff expect to require a low, medium, or high
effort. Low-effort actions include the removal of certain sections of code that are no longer
applicable (blue). Medium-effort actions involve moving, reformatting, or consolidating chapters
or sections of the ordinance, as well as bringing those sections into compliance with State Code
(green). Finally, high-effort actions are those that require an updating of chapters or sections in
order to improve standards and requirements or facilitate General Plan implementation (yellow).
In addition to greater staff expertise being needed for the high-effort changes, it is anticipated
that those actions will trigger a higher level of engagement from the community. As a general
strategy, staff have elected to draft the ‘High-Effort’ ordinance updates first so that the Planning
Commission and Council have the most time to look over those sections before adoption. Thus,
you will find many of the anticipated High-Effort Draft Chapters (namely the Zone Chapters)
included in this packaged Phase 1 draft.

Ordinance-Writing Methodology: Staff followed several steps in order to produce the drafted
chapters presented in Exhibit A.

   1. Staff members were assigned various chapters to research. They drew on model codes,
      planning best practices, and existing conditions to draft a “model chapter” that other staff
      members would later use as a basis for their own communities.
   2. Staff members reviewed each other’s work at weekly Ordinance Update Meetings. Model
      ordinances were revised in response to feedback.
   3. Model Ordinance Chapters were sent to the Smith-Hartvigsen legal team for review.
   4. Staff members revised their model ordinances accordingly.
   5. The planner assigned to each community reviewed the Model Ordinance Chapters and
      tailored them to their specific community. Planners reviewed the community’s General
      Plan, existing ordinances, pre-analysis, and other sources relevant to the community vision.
Preceding each Chapter in Exhibit A, staff have prepared a summary that describes major changes
made to the Chapter and any information of significance to the community.

                              SUMMARY OF CHAPTER CHANGES

The Chapters presented in Exhibit A differ from the existing Zoning Ordinance both in formatting
and in substance. Several of the existing ordinance chapters were lacking important standards
that contribute to a high-quality built-environment and protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of residents. Major changes drafted for each specific Chapter are highlighted below:

       Chapter 19.04 Definitions

   •   Over 400 specific uses (many undefined) existed in the previous code. Staff consolidated
       these to a couple hundred categorized uses, with clear definitions.



                                            Page 3 of 7
•   All definitions used in the Zoning Ordinance were moved into a single chapter to reduce
    redundancy and cut down on text in other sections.
    Chapter 19.22 Parks and Open Space Zones

•   A new zone was created that did not exist in previous code – the PR Zone.
•   The PR Zone protects and promotes developed park spaces, with recreation as the primary
    goal.
•   The OS Zone is meant for more natural open spaces such as wildlife corridors, sensitive
    lands, and viewsheds. This should be applied in areas where the primary goal is
    conservation.
•   Development standards were added to ensure compatibility with existing development
    and zone intent. For example, lighting standards for these zones work to prevent light
    pollution.
    Chapter 19.26 Agricultural Zones

•   The agricultural zones were cleaned up for enhanced clarity and an emphasis on single-
    family development with small scale agricultural uses.
•   Staff recommended removing the A-2, A-5, and A-10 Zones, which are not currently
    applied in Magna and are unlikely to be desired in the future.
•   Several incompatible uses were removed from this Chapter.
    Chapter 19.28 Single-Family Residential Zones

•   Staff recommend removing the R-1-15 and R-1-43 Zones, which are not in use currently
    and are unlikely to be desired in the future.
•   Several standards were added to this Chapter, including standards for accessory structures,
    fencing standards, and additional development standards like lot coverage.
•   Incompatible uses such as pigeons, golf courses, and cemeteries were removed from the
    Single-Family Residential Zones.
    Chapter 19.29 Residential Mobile Home Park Zone
•   This zone was largely preserved from existing ordinance and should apply to the existing
    mobile home park in Magna and to the property zoned RMH near the Pleasant Green
    Cemetery, if it is ultimately developed as a mobile home park
•   Sections were re-formatted to match other Chapters.
•   A few additional uses were added to support strong mobile home park neighborhoods.

    Chapter 19.30 Medium and High Density Residential Zones



                                        Page 4 of 7
•   R-2, R-4, and RM Zones were combined into one Chapter. Staff recommends that the RM
    Zone only apply to existing and future multi-family developments.
•   Incompatible uses were removed from the Medium and High Density Residential Zones,
    although limited commercial uses were preserved in the ordinance recognizing Kearns
    desire for additional tax base and the benefit of having commercial services near
    residential land uses.
•   Development standards were added to ensure that any development in these zones is
    compatible with the surrounding neighborhood.
    Chapter 19.32 Commercial Zones

•   The C-V zone is intended to cater to visitors and tourists. It is only applied near the Great
    Salt Lake and Saltair and is not recommended elsewhere in the community.
•   The C-1 Zone has been re-imagined as a smaller-scale commercial zone. The C-2 Zone is
    now intended primarily for shopping centers with appropriate standards regarding form.
    The C-3 Zone is preserved as a legacy Zone only. No new applications of C-3 Zoning are
    recommended and the existing C-3 zones in the Historic Downtown Area should be
    rezoned to Downtown Historical Mixed Use.
•   Development standards previously missing from ordinance have been added to the
    drafted Chapter, including lot size and frontage, build-to-line, walkway, and architectural
    standards.
    Chapter 19.34 Manufacturing Zones

•   Staff drafted this Chapter so that greater distinctions were visible between the M-1 and
    M-2 Zones. The M-1 Zone is intended to promote flex industrial uses.
•   The M-2 Zone allows for more industrial uses on the outskirts of communities and is most
    appropriate near and north of Hwy 201.
•   Development standards were added to ensure that any development in the M-1 or M-2
    Zone is compatible with surrounding uses. These development standards address height,
    landscaping and screening, lot coverage, parking and loading, and a host of other items
    that were not previously regulated.
    Chapter 19.36 Mixed-Use Zone

•   Magna adopted the Downtown Historic District (DH) zone earlier this year. This ordinance
    is retained. Two additional mixed use districts have been created for use in other parts of
    Magna.
•   The Corridor Mixed Use District could be applied to facilitate development on the portion
    of Magna Main Street not in the Historic District and along other major commercial
    thoroughfares.



                                         Page 5 of 7
   •   The Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone allows for the vertical and horizontal mixing of
       residential, commercial, and civic uses at a small, neighborhood scale and may be
       appropriate at the intersections of major streets where residential development currently
       predominates.
   •   Several design standards were included to ensure that any mixed-use development occurs
       at a compatible scale and in a pattern that encourages a safe and walkable built-
       environment.


                      PURPOSES OF EXHIBIT A / PROVIDING FEEDBACK

The contents of Exhibit A are drafted for review purposes only. This is not a final draft nor a public
hearing draft. Staff are fully anticipating feedback from the Planning Commission and Council and
will make several revisions before moving drafted chapters into the adoption phase in December.
Staff are asking for feedback in one of two (or both) ways:

   1. Send comments, red-line edits, or other thoughts to Brian Tucker, Planning Manager
      (BTucker@msd.utah.gov).
   2. Request a work session to address drafted Chapters. A work session could include staff,
      the Planning Commission, the Council, the legal team, and other desired stakeholders. At
      the work session, participants would review the content together and work toward desired
      revisions.



                                 TIMELINE FOR FUTURE PHASES

Staff have broken the entire ordinance-update project down into a series of three phases, as
shown in Figure 3. At the end of each phase, draft versions of the specified chapters will be
delivered to the Planning Commission and Council for their review and feedback. When all of the
drafted chapters have been reviewed, a final draft version of Titles 18 & 19, with revisions as
applicable, will be presented for adoption.

                     Figure 3: Proposed Timeline for Ordinance Updates.




                                             Page 6 of 7
                                    Credit: MSD PDS, 2022.

The Commission and Council can expect Phase 2 deliverables in September 2022. Staff will work
hard to prepare a high-quality draft of Titles 18 & 19 that can be considered by the Planning
Commission and adopted by the Council in December of 2022. We recognize our communities’
urgency to update its codes before the 2023 State Legislative Session.



                                        CONCLUSION

The planning team has completed the initial draft of Phase 1 Ordinance Chapters (see Exhibit A).
These drafted chapters are presented for Magna’s Planning Commission and Council review and
feedback only. The next phase of ordinances is expected to be delivered to the Commission and
Council in September of 2022.




                                          Page 7 of 7
                                                                                            Phase 1 Chapter
                                                                                            Phase 2 Chapter
                                                                                            Phase 3 Chapter
                                    MAGNA ZONING ORDINANCE

                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
     Article I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
         CHAPTER 19.02: TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
         CHAPTER 19.04: DEFINITIONS
         CHAPTER 19.06: NONCONFORMITIES
         CHAPTER 19.08: ENFORCEMENT
         CHAPTER 19.10: PROCEDURES FOR ANALYZING TAKINGS
     Article II. ADMINISTRATION
         CHAPTER 19.12: ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES, POWERS & DUTIES
         CHAPTER 19.14: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES, ZONING MAP, AMENDMENTS
         CHAPTER 19.15: APPLICATION PROCESS
         CHAPTER 19.16: LAND USE PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES
         CHAPTER 19.18: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
         CHAPTER 19.20: APPEALS, VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS
     Article III. …..............................................................................ZONE REGULATIONS
          CHAPTER 19.22: PARKS AND OPEN SPACE
          CHAPTER 19.26: AGRICULTURAL ZONES
          CHAPTER 19.28: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
          CHAPTER 19.29: RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME ZONE
          CHAPTER 19.30: MEDIUM AND HIGH-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
          CHAPTER 19.32: COMMERCIAL ZONES
          CHAPTER 19.34: MANUFACTURING ZONES
          CHAPTER 19.36: MIXED USE ZONES
     Article IV. …..................................SPECIFIC AND TEMPORARY USE STANDARDS
         CHAPTER 19.40: SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS
         CHAPTER 19.42: TEMPORARY USE STANDARDS
     Article V. ….................................................................DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
         CHAPTER 19.46: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
         CHAPTER 19.48: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
         CHAPTER 19.50: LANDSCAPING & SCREENING
         CHAPTER 19.51: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS

MSD Model Code                                 Draft Ordinance                                       July 2022
                                                  Phase 1 Chapter
                                                  Phase 2 Chapter
                                                  Phase 3 Chapter
         CHAPTER 19.52: SIGNS
         CHAPTER 19.58: AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE
         CHAPTER 19.61: FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
         CHAPTER 19.62: GEOLOGICAL HAZARDS




MSD Model Code                  Draft Ordinance           July 2022
                                              Title 19 - ZONING
                                          Chapter 19.04 DEFINITIONS



                                    Definitions Chapter – Staff Summary

Summary: Readers will notice substantial changes from the existing definitions in Title 19. Staff began
with a list of over four hundred (400+) use definitions that were dispersed throughout Title 19. They then
worked to categorize uses with similar meanings and impacts in order to improve readability and reduce
the number of uses that needed to be listed in each zone’s ‘Schedule of Permitted Uses’. For example,
existing ordinance lists several uses as permitted in Commercial Zones: bookstore, clothing store, china
and/or silver shop, gift shop, popcorn and/or nut shop. . . In this drafted Definitions Chapter, all these
uses are combined under the category, “Retail and Service Commercial”. Retail and Service Commercial
uses are allowed in the Commercial Zones, and the impact of these uses is regulated via building heights,
bulk standards, yards and setbacks, and other development standards.

Applicability: This Chapter includes all definitions used throughout Title 19. This prevents redundancy by
defining terms and uses up-front, reducing text and explanation needed in each Chapter. Clear definitions
ensure ease of use both for applicants and for Staff.

Resources: The Definitions Chapter required the most time of any other chapter in Phase 1. Several staff
members on both the Current and Long Range Planning teams worked over the course of several months
to refine definitions. Definitions included in this Draft Chapter came from a number of sources:
    •   Utah State Code
    •   American Planning Association: A Planner’s Dictionary
    •   Existing Ordinance
    •   Planners’ Previous Professional Experiences, including work in Millcreek, Midvale, Mapleton, Brigham City,
        Gunnison, and Oregon.




                                                   Page 1 of 29
                                            Title 19 - ZONING
                                        Chapter 19.04 DEFINITIONS



                                   Chapter 19.04 DEFINITIONS

                        DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 2nd, 2022
Sections:



19.04.005 Definitions and interpretation of language.
     For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as set out in this chapter. Words
used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the plural and the
plural the singular, and words included herein but defined in the building code shall be construed as
defined therein.

19.04.010 Terms Defined:
“Accessory Structure” means a detached subordinate building or structure the appropriate use of which
is subordinate and customarily incidental to the main building or to the main use of the land and which
is located on the same lot or parcel of land with the main building or use. Accessory Structures include
detached garages or carports, garden or storage sheds, and children's playhouses, but do not involve the
conduct of a business.
“Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” means
“Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached” means a habitable living unit detached from a primary single-
family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30
consecutive days or longer.
“Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal” means an accessory dwelling unit created:
        A.      within a primary dwelling:
        B.      within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling
unit (IADU) was created; and
       C.     for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer. (See
Utah Code 10-9a-530)
“Accessory Outside Storage” means the accessory location of any goods, wares, merchandise,
commodities, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a continuous period longer
than twenty-four (24) hours. The area used for outdoor storage shall not constitute more than fifteen
percent (15%) of the lot area. With the exception of retail sales displays in an approved commercial
area, outdoor storage shall be screened from public view by a minimum six-foot (6') high opaque fence
or, when outdoor storage occurs in a front yard, side yard, or any other location within the public view,
a fence or screening of a height and material determined by the Planning Commission. The presence of
hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris not usually appurtenant to permitted on-site uses is
prohibited. "Outdoor storage" as defined herein does not include construction yards, storage yards, or
other storage uses where the storage of items outside of an enclosed building is a primary characteristic
of the use. See definition of "storage yard."




                                                Page 2 of 29
“Accessory Use” means a use clearly incidental and subordinate to the existing primary use and
customarily related to the primary use and located on the same lot or in the same building as the
primary use.
“Agricultural Building” means a structure that is primarily associated with and supports agricultural use
or activity but shall not be used for human occupancy and complying with the requirements of Utah
Code, as amended. To qualify as an agricultural building the structure shall meet all requirements of
Utah Code, as amended, and be clearly associated with and necessary to support an agricultural use or
activity.
“Agricultural Products Processing” means the processing of non-animal agricultural products including
but not limited to the processing, cleaning, sorting, grading, packaging, or milling of products intended
for human or animal consumption or use.
“Agricultural Sales” means the retail or wholesale sale of agricultural or horticultural products grown or
raised on site and not produced or purchased from another location for resale. This use does not include
the commercial slaughtering, processing, packaging, or sale of meat, poultry and dairy, concentrated
animal feeding operation, or similar uses.
"Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising and harvesting of crops, horticulture and
gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except household pets,
and not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms, animal
hospitals or similar uses.
“Agritourism” means a commercial enterprise linking agricultural production and/or processing with
tourism in order to attract visitors onto a farm, ranch, or other agricultural business for the purposes of
entertaining and/or educating the visitors and generating income for the farm, ranch, or business
owner. This excludes guest ranches and other forms of overnight accommodation.
“Airport/Heliport” means an area used for the landing and takeoff of both fixed-wing aircraft and
helicopters and buildings, structures, or other facilities associated with these activities, including
taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas, hangars, servicing, and passenger and freight terminals
and used by commercial, private, or military aircraft.
"Alley" means a public thoroughfare less than twenty-five feet wide. that is intended to provide rear or
side access and is not intended for through traffic.
“Amateur Radio Antenna” means a radio antenna that complies with the ruling of the Federal
Communications Commission in "Amateur Radio Preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952 (1985)" or meets the
standards related to amateur radio service adopted under 47 C.F.R. Part 97.
“Amateur Radio Antenna Support Structure” means a lattice or pole structure which acts as a support
to the amateur radio antenna. Typical support structures are triangular or square in cross-section, crank
up, or guyed, and are constructed with galvanized steel or aluminum.
“Animal Control or Rescue Facility” means a location, with buildings, structures, and holding facilities
necessary to provide temporary housing and food for animals (primarily pets or companion animals)
from abusive homes or homeless situations, rehabilitation (if the animal has health or behavior
problems, or for treatment if the animal requires veterinary care). This may include publicly licensed
facilities to detain and/or dispose of stray dogs, cats, and other animals.
“Animal Feeding Operation” means a facility that confines, feeds, and maintains domestic livestock in
either an open or enclosed lot or space for a total of 45 days or more in any 12-month period. The
area(s) where the livestock are confined does not sustain crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-


                                                 Page 3 of 29
harvest residues in the normal growing season. An AFO may also be a Concentrated Animal Feeding
Operation (“CAFO” See CAFO). An AFO may be subject to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (UPDES).
“Animal Hospital or Clinic” means facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and hospitalization of
domesticated animals in indoor holding facilities but does not include any outdoor holding or boarding
facilities.
“Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities” means facilities for the diagnosis, treatment,
hospitalization, and boarding of animals (including large animals) that may include indoor and/or
outdoor holding and boarding facilities.

"Animal Rights" means the keeping of livestock and fowl, limited to one animal unit and their seasonal
offspring for each ten (10) thousand square feet.

“Animal Unit” means a proportionate combination of the following:
 A. One (1) cow, or one (1) horse, or one (1) pig, or one (1) llama, or one (1) other similar large animal.
 B. Four (4) adult sheep or feeder lambs, or two (2) alpacas (similar to llama).
 C. Two (2) goats.
  D. Ten (10) chickens, or ten (10) ducks, or ten (10) pigeons, or ten (10) similar small fowl, subject to
the standards and requirements of this Title, Salt Lake County Animal Services, and Salt Lake County
Health Department that ensure that domesticated fowl do not adversely impact the neighborhood
surrounding the property on which the domestic fowl are kept. For regulations regarding the keeping of
chickens, see section _________ of this title.
 E. Twelve (12) rabbits, or twelve (12) similar small animals.
 F. Two (2) large birds such as ostriches, or emus, or peacocks.
 G. Four (4) turkeys.
The total animal units located on a given parcel or animal operation shall be determined by adding the
animal units for each animal type. For the purpose of determining compliance, said definition shall not
include the unweaned offspring of any residing animal which is less than six (6) months in age.
“Antenna” means a transducer, attached to a support structure, designed to transmit or receive
electromagnetic waves.
“Apiary” means the assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location.
“Assembly Use” means a business where finished parts are assembled to develop a final product. These
uses include computer and electronic assembly, and similar uses, but do not include vehicle or
manufacturing type uses.
“Assisted Living Facility” means Either a Type I Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential facility that
supports activities of daily living and social care to two or more residents who require protected living
arrangements and are sufficiently mobile to exit the facility without the assistance of another person.
OR A Type II Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential facility with a home-like setting that provides
an array of coordinated supportive personal and health care services available 24 hours per day to
residents who have been assessed under Department rule to need any of these services.


                                                  Page 4 of 29
“Athletic Clubs” means an indoor establishment that provides for aerobic exercises, weightlifting,
bodybuilding, running, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming facilities, saunas, spas, showers, and
lockers. See “Recreation Facility, Commercial” and “Recreation Facility, Private”.
Bank. See “Financial Institution.”
“Bar” means a commercial establishment open to the general public which sells and serves intoxicating
beverages for consumption on the premises, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
"Basement" means any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor level in a
building having only one floor level shall be classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a
first story.
“Bed and Breakfast Inn” means dwellings in which two (2) or more rooms are rented out by the day,
offering overnight lodging to travelers, and where one or more meals are provided by the host family,
the price of which is included in the room rate.
“Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant” means a business which conducts the
retail sale of beer or liquor which is brewed or distilled on the premises in compliance with applicable
state and federal laws. Such establishments may also include restaurants as an accessory use.
“Breweries and Distilleries, Industrial” means an industrial use that brews ales, beers, meads, and/or
similar beverages on site. Industrial breweries and distilleries are engaged predominantly in
manufacturing and do not include a bar or restaurant. Industrial breweries and distilleries may include
incidental retail sales when permitted by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
"Boardinghouse" means a building with not more than five guestrooms, where, for compensation,
meals are provided for at least five but not more than fifteen persons.
“Buildable Area” means a lot or portion thereof possessing all of the following physical characteristics:
  A. The area contains no territory having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater;
  B. The area contains no territory which is located in any identified floodplain or within any recognized
     inundation zone, mudflow zone or zone of deformation, or lands subject to earth slippage,
     landslide or rockfall;
  C. The engineering properties of the soil provide adequate structural support for the intended use;
     and
  D. The area does not possess any other recognized natural condition which renders it unsafe for
     building purposes.
"Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing or
enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.
“Building alteration” means any act or process that changes the architectural detail, function, or
structural design of a building, including but not limited to the erection, construction, reconstruction, or
removal of any building.
“Building coverage” means the maximum horizontal area within the outer perimeter of the building
walls, dividers, or columns at ground level or above, whichever is the greater area, including, without
limitation, courts and exterior stairways, but excluding:
  A. Uncovered decks, porches, patios, terraces, and stairways all less than thirty inches high; and




                                                 Page 5 of 29
  B. The outer four feet of completely open, uncovered, cantilevered balconies that have a minimum of
      eight feet of vertical clearance below.
“Building envelope” means the building pad, building footprint, and height restrictions, which define
the maximum building area in which all development must occur.
“Building facade” means the exterior of a building located above ground and generally visible from
public points of view.
“Building footprint” means the total area of the foundation of a structure, or the furthest exterior wall
or supporting column of the structure. Decks, porches, patios, stairways, terraces, planter boxes and
balconies that are both uncovered and less than 30’ tall, measured from the finished grade are not part
of the building footprint.
“Building Height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point on the perimeter of
the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to a
level midway between the level of the eaves and the highest point of pitched or hipped roofs, or to a
level two-thirds of the distance from the level of the eaves to the highest point of gambrel roofs. For
purposes of measuring height, the "level of the eaves" means the highest level where the plane of the
roof intersects the plane of the outside wall on any side containing an eave. Buildings may be stepped to
accommodate the slope of the terrain provided that each step shall be at least twelve feet in horizontal
dimension. The height of each stepped building segment shall be measured separately.
“Building Street Frontage” means the portion of the building directly fronting or adjacent to the street.
Building Street Frontage is calculated by dividing the portion of the building at the build-to-line or within
a specified distance of the build-to-line by the street frontage.
“Build-to-line” means the maximum distance a building may be setback from a property line or other
designated location. The purpose of a build-to-line is to bring structures adjacent to streets and
sidewalks to encourage pedestrian activity.
“Campground” means a public area designated by a public agency for camping, or a private area
licensed by the local governing body for camping. And/or any lot or parcel of land upon which two or
more sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles for a fee as
temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes. This may include accessory facilities such
as kitchens, pavilions, playgrounds, or storage for recreation equipment.
“Camping” means the use of any tent, trailer, lean-to, teepee, recreational vehicle, or similar non-
permanent structure or vehicle for temporary living quarters for residential, recreation, education, or
vacation purposes.
"Canopy" means a roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to the ground
directly underneath the canopy, and providing a protective shield for service-station pump islands and
walkways.
“Car and Light Truck Wash” means a facility with machine or hand-operated facilities used principally
for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of automobiles and light trucks. A car and truck wash may
be able to accommodate more than one vehicle at a time.
"Carport" means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the purpose of this
title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a private garage.
“Cemetery” means land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including crematoriums,
mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities.



                                                 Page 6 of 29
“Check Cashing” means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan and shall
include any other similar types of businesses licensed by the State pursuant to the Check Cashing
Registration Act.
“Child Care” means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction, and
supervision for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than twenty-four hours a
day. The term does not include babysitting services of a casual, non-recurring nature, or in the child’s
own home or cooperative, or reciprocative child care by a group of parents in their respective domiciles.
“Child Care Center” means a facility, operated by a person qualified and licensed by the State of Utah,
which provides children with daycare and/or preschool instruction as a commercial business and
complying with all applicable state standards and licensing and having regularly scheduled, ongoing
enrollment for direct or indirect compensation that provides childcare for less than twenty-four (24)
hours per day. Commercial Daycare Facilities excludes the following:
    A. Kindergartens or nursery schools or other daytime programs operated by public or private
       elementary or secondary schools or institutions of higher learning;
    B. Facilities operated in connection with a fitness center, shopping center, or other activity where
       children are cared for temporarily while parents or custodians of the children are occupied on the
       premises or are in the immediate vicinity and readily available; or
    C. Special activities or programs, including athletics, crafts instruction, and similar activities, are
       conducted on a periodic basis by civic, charitable, private, or governmental organizations.
“Child Care, Licensed Family” means the provision of childcare for sixteen or fewer children, including
the provider’s children who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the caregiver resides, in
the absence of a child’s parents, for four (4) or more hours but less than twenty-four (24) hours, on a
regularly scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Licensed Family” is subject to licensing by the Utah
Department of Health and Human Services.
“Child Care, Residential” means the provision of childcare for eight or fewer children, including the
provider’s children the who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the caregiver resides, in
the absence of a child’s parents, for less than twenty-four (24) hours, on a regularly scheduled, ongoing
basis. A “Child Care, Residential” is subject to licensing by the Utah Department of Health and Human
Services.
“Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious buildings” means a building, with
accessory buildings and uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related social
events and which building, with accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious
body organized to sustain religious ceremonies and purposes.
“Club” means a building used, occupied, and operated by an organized association of persons for social,
fraternal, religious, or patriotic purposes, whose activities are confined to the members and their guests,
but shall not include any organization, group, or association, of which the principal activity is to render a
service usually and ordinarily carried on as a business. A club may also be a bar, subject to the Utah
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.
“Cluster Subdivision” means a subdivision in which the lot sizes are reduced below those normally
required in the zoning district in which the development is located, in return for the provision of
permanent open space.




                                                 Page 7 of 29
“Commercial Plant Nursery” means a business where young plants or trees are raised for experimental
horticultural purposes, for transplanting, or for sale.
"Commercial recreation" means recreational facilities operated as a business and open to the general
public for a fee, such as golf driving ranges and baseball batting ranges.
“Community Garden” means the production of a harvestable product, planted, grown, and cultivated in
the soil by an identifiable group of community members. Includes products grown and managed by
a community or neighborhood organization for local consumption or sale.
“Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation” An Animal Feeding Operation (AFO) is a “Concentrated
Animal Feeding Operation” (“CAFO”) if it meets the regulatory definition of CAFO or if it is designated as
a CAFO by the State of Utah. A CAFO is defined in 40 CFR 122.23 Appendix B as “an animal feeding
operation where more than 1,000 ‘animal units’ (as defined by the regulation) are confined at the
location; or more than 300 animal units are confined at the facility and either one of the following
conditions are met: pollutants are discharged into navigable waters through a man-made ditch, flushing
system or other similar man-made devices; or pollutants are discharged directly into waters of the
United States which originate outside of and pass over, across, or through the facility or otherwise come
into direct contact with the animals confined in the operation.” (“Animal unit” means a unit of
measurement for any animal feeding operation calculated as per the Utah Administrative Code (UAC)
R317-8-3.5 and used to determine if an operation meets the definition of a concentrated animal feeding
operation). A CAFO is subject to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(UPDES).
"Conditional use" means a land use that has unique characteristics or negative effects that may not be
compatible in an area without conditions to mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts. A land use
listed as a conditional use is a use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to this
title.
“Contractor’s Office” A facility providing building construction and maintenance, including carpentry,
plumbing, roofing, electrical, air conditioning, and heating, within a fully enclosed building, and that may
include the open storage of associated building materials, equipment, or vehicles.
Contractor’s Storage Yard. See “Storage Yard”
"Corral" means a space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one hundred feet
in width, used for the confinement of animals.
“Correctional Facility” means any facility operated by or contracting with the Department of Corrections
to house offenders in either a secure or non-secure setting; which includes any facility operated by a
municipality or a county to house or detain criminal offenders, any juvenile detention facility, and any
building or grounds appurtenant to the facility or lands granted to the state, municipality, or county for
use as a correctional facility.
"Court" means an occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be partially surrounded by
group dwellings.
“Crematorium” means a building that contains cremation chambers and a holding facility for human or
pet remains, and which may receive remains from funeral establishments.
"Dairy" means a commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy products.




                                                 Page 8 of 29
"Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not
limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations.
"Director" means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Director of Planning and
Development Services.
“Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities” means an establishment designed or operated to provide drive-
through or drive-up service to patrons remaining in vehicles. May include other forms of service, such as
conventional seating.
Duplex. See “Dwelling, Two Family.”
“Dwelling, Manufactured Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or more sections, that: (a) in the traveling mode,
is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 400 or
more square feet; and (b) is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems. A manufactured home shall be attached to a
permanent foundation in accordance with plans providing for vertical loads, uplift, lateral forces, and
frost protection in compliance with the City’s Building Code, as adopted. All appendages, including
carports, garages, storage buildings, additions, or alterations shall be built in compliance with the City’s
Building Code, as adopted.
“Dwelling, Mobile Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit built prior to June 15, 1976,
in accordance with a state mobile home code that existed prior to the HUD Code. HUD Code means the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. Sec. 5401 et seq.
“Dwelling, Modular Unit” means a structure: (a) built from sections that are manufactured in
accordance with the State Construction Code and transported to a building site; and (b) the purpose of
which is for human habitation, occupancy, or use
“Dwelling, Multiple Family” means a building containing five (5) or more residential dwelling units.
“Dwelling, Single-Family” means a building containing one (1) residential dwelling unit.
“Dwelling, Single-Family Attached” A residential structure designed to house a single-family unit from
the lowest level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily occupying a private lot, and
sharing a common wall adjoining dwelling units.
“Dwelling, Three- and Four-Family (3-plex and 4-plex)” means a building containing three (3) or four (4)
residential dwelling units, each unit designed to be occupied by one (1) family.
“Dwelling, Two Family” means a building containing two (2) residential dwelling units.
“Dwelling group” means a group of two or more dwellings located on a parcel of land in one ownership
and having any yard or court in common.
"Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an independent
housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for cooking
and sleeping. Buildings with more than one kitchen or set of cooking facilities are considered to contain
more than one dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are clearly accessory to a dwelling
unit as determined by the development services director. Factors for determining whether cooking
facilities are accessory to a dwelling unit may include but are not limited to:



                                                 Page 9 of 29
    A. A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of the building including
       cooking facilities;
    B. No portion of the building containing cooking facilities can be separated from the remaining
       rooms to form a separate dwelling unit;
    C. There is only one electric and/or gas meter for the building.
“Earth Station” means a communication facility that transmits and/or receives signals to and from
orbiting satellite(s).
“Educational Facility” means: (i) a school district's building at which pupils assemble to receive
instruction in a program for any combination of grades from preschool through grade 12, including
kindergarten and programs for children with disabilities; (ii) a structure or facility: (A) located on the
same property as a building described in Subsection (12)(a)(i); and (B) used in support of the use of that
building; and (iii) a building to provide office and related space to a school district's administrative
personnel; and (b) does not include: (i) land or a structure, including land or a structure for inventory
storage, equipment storage, food processing or preparing, vehicle storage or maintenance, or similar
use that is: (A) not located on the same property as a building described in Subsection (12)(a)(i); and (B)
used in support of the purposes of a building described in Subsection (12)(a)(i); or (ii) a therapeutic
school.
“Educational Facility with Residential Accommodation” means an educational facility with living
accommodations for students or staff, such as universities, colleges, boarding schools, and seminaries.
Educational facility includes public and private schools (PreK-12) designed for educational activities with
a curriculum for technical or vocational training, pre-kindergarten, kindergarten, elementary, secondary,
or higher education and recognized as an educational institution by the State of Utah Board of
Education, the State of Utah Board of Higher Education, or the State Board of Regents.
"Entrance" means the location of ingress to a room, building, or lot; a location of admittance.
"Exit" means the location of egress from a room, building, or lot.
“Family” means one of the following groups of individuals, but not more than one group at the same
time:
    A. An individual living alone; or
    B. Two (2) or more people, all of whom are related to one designated occupant of the dwelling by
       blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship and their foster children, and up to two (2)
       other unrelated persons who do not pay rent; or
    C. Up to four (4) related or unrelated individuals who live and cook together as a single
       housekeeping unit; or
    D. Two (2) unrelated individuals and any children of either of them living as a single housekeeping
       unit.
"Family food production" means the keeping of not more than two cows, two sheep, two goats, twenty
rabbits, fifty chickens, fifty pheasants, ten ducks, ten turkeys, ten geese, and twenty pigeons; provided
that not more than three of the above-listed kinds of animals and fowl are permitted at any one time on
any lot in zones where family food production may be a permitted or conditional use.
“Fence” means any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, wall, hedge, or continuous growth of shrubs or
trees with the purpose of, or having the effect of, preventing passage or view across the fence line.



                                                Page 10 of 29
“Financial Institutions” means a trust company, savings bank, industrial bank, savings and loan
association, building and loan association, commercial bank, credit union, federal association,
investment company, or other business association—which is chartered under federal or state law—
solicits, receives, or accepts money or its equivalent on deposit and loans money as a regular business.
"Financial institutions" does not include "check cashing", "pawn shops" or other similar uses.
“Food truck / mobile restaurant/food cart” means a motorized vehicle or mobile food unit that's used
for cooking and selling food items to the general public on a public right-of-way and licensed by the Salt
Lake County Health Department.
“Freight Service” means an establishment primarily engaged in undertaking the transportation or
transferring of goods, merchandise, materials, and commodities of any kind for compensation, and
which may in turn make use of other transportation establishments in effecting delivery.
"Frontage" means the uninterrupted linear or curvilinear extent of a lot, abutting on a street, measured
along the street right-of-way from the intersection of one side lot line to the intersection of the other
side lot line. The measurement of lot frontage shall not include irregularities in the street line and, in the
case of a corner lot, shall extend to the point of intersection of the rights-of-way. If a lot has frontage on
more than one street, only the frontage on one street may be used to satisfy the minimum lot frontage.
“Garage, Private” means a detached accessory building or portion of a main building designed for the
parking or temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
“Gardening for Personal Use” An accessory use that includes the production of fruits, vegetables,
spices, and other food plants for personal use. Gardening for personal use may include a greenhouse or
plant nursery subject to accessory structure regulations.
“Grade, finished” means the topographic elevations where the earth meets the building, upon project
completion. Excluded from this definition are window wells serving basement rooms. Also referred to as
"final grade".
“Grade, natural” means the topographic elevations representing the surface of the ground prior to
grading, filling, or other site alterations for a project. When natural grade is not readily apparent, an
approximation of preexisting conditions using grades on adjacent sites, retaining walls, prior survey
maps, etc., may be used as a reference for determining natural grade. All such grade approximations
shall require the concurrence of the Director. Also referred to as "existing grade".
"Graffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings, or other visual defacing of buildings, structures, or
natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not otherwise authorized and
permitted in the Salt Lake County ordinances.
“Guest” means a person paying for staying or receiving services at a bed and breakfast, hotel, motel,
resort, or similar facility.
"Guestroom" means a room that is designed for double occupancy by guests, for sleeping purposes.
"Guest house" means a separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more main dwelling
structures and used for housing guests or servants, and not rented, leased or sold separate from the
rental, lease or sale of the main dwelling.
“Guest Ranch” means a vacation resort offering activities (such as horseback riding) typical of western
ranches; may be associated with a working ranch.
“Home Occupation” means any use or activity conducted entirely within a residential dwelling or a legal
accessory building or structure that is clearly incidental and secondary to the existing residential use and


                                                 Page 11 of 29
does not change the character of the residence or neighborhood and there is no display of any stock and
the use complies with the applicable business license requirements.
“Home Preschool” means a preschool program complying with all State standards and licensing for non-
family members in an occupied dwelling unit, by residents of that dwelling unit, in which lessons are
provided for not more than ten (10) children for each session of instruction. If there are eight or more
children, there must be two or more providers present. Sessions shall last for not more than four (4) hours
and shall not overlap. Individual children may attend only one (1) preschool session in any 24-hour period.
“Hospital” means a facility licensed by the Utah Department of Health, providing health services
primarily for human inpatient or medical or surgical care for the sick or injured, and including the related
facilities such laboratories, outpatient departments, training facilities, central service facilities, and staff
offices which are integral parts of the facilities.
“Hotel” means an establishment providing, for a fee, sleeping accommodations and customary lodging
services, including maid service, the furnishing and upkeep of furniture and bed linens, and telephone
and desk service. A central kitchen, dining room, accessory shops and services catering to the general
public can be provided. Additional services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms, conference space and
recreational facilities are allowed as accessory and subordinate uses.
“Household Pet” means animals or fowl customarily permitted in the house and kept for company or
pleasure, including dogs, cats, canaries, and similar pets.
“Industrial flex space” means a one-story building containing a mixture of warehouse, retail, office, and
light industrial uses, with at least 25% of the net floor area dedicated to office space.
“Institutional Use” means a facility that provides a public service and is operated by a federal, state, or
local government, public or private utility, public or private school or college, church, public agency, or
tax-exempt organization.
"Intensity" means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the number of people, cars,
visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising, etc.; also, the size of buildings or structures,
the most intense being higher, longer and/or wider.
“Junk” means any worn out or discarded materials including but not necessarily limited to scrap metal,
inoperable motor vehicles and parts, construction material, household wastes, including garbage and
discarded appliances, and yard debris.
Junkyard. See “Salvage Yard.”
 “Kennel, Commercial” means a shelter or place where over three dogs or cats are bred, boarded, or
trained for monetary gain.
“Kennel, Private” means a shelter for or a place where over three and no more than five dogs and cats
are bred, boarded, or trained for no monetary gain.
“Laboratory, Medical or Dental” means an establishment providing biological, dental, medical, or
optometrical laboratory and testing services.
“Laboratory, Research and Development” means facilities for the investigation of natural, physical, or
social sciences that may include engineering and product development.
“Land Use Application” means an application required by the zoning or subdivision ordinances.
“Land Use Authority” means the person, board, commission, agency, or other body designated by the
_______ Township Council to act upon a land use application.


                                                  Page 12 of 29
“Land Use Decision” means any final decision of the township council, planning commission, or final
administrative decision of the _________________ or other official responsible for the enforcement of
zoning and subdivision regulations.
“Lattice Tower” means a support structure constructed of vertical metal struts and cross braces forming
a triangular or square structure that often tapers from the foundation to the top.
“Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help” means an establishment where one or more machines or
devices are offered for public use to provide self-service dry-cleaning and/or clothes laundering
facilities.
“Laundry Cleaning, Drop Off” means an establishment where patrons may drop off items for dry-
cleaning or laundering—which may occur on or off-site.
“Liquor and/or Wine Store” means a facility for the sale of packaged liquor or wine, located on
premises owned or leased by the state of Utah and operated by a state employee.
"Lot" means a parcel of land occupied or proposed to be occupied by a building or buildings, together
with such yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot areas as are required by this title, having frontage upon
a street or a right-of-way approved by a land use hearing officer, or upon a right-of-way not less than
twenty feet wide. Except as provided in this title, not more than one dwelling structure shall occupy one
lot.
"Lot, Corner" means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where the interior angle
of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty-five degrees.
“Lot, Double Fronting” means a lot having frontage on two (2) streets that are parallel or nearly so or do
not intersect.
"Lot, Interior" means a lot other than a corner lot.
“Lot Line, Front” means the front boundary line of a lot bordering the street.
“Lot Line, Rear” means a lot line that is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In the case of
an irregular-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be that lot line that is generally parallel to and at the
maximum distance from the front lot line, having a length of at least ten feet (10').
“Lot Line, Side” means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
"Lot Width" means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the required front yard setback
line. For a corner lot, the lot width is the distance between one of the front lot lines and the opposite
side yard line at the required front yard setback line.
“Machine Shop” means shops where lathes, presses, grinders, shapers, and other wood or metal
working machines are used—such as blacksmith, tinsmith, welding, and sheet metal plumbing, heating,
electrical repair, and overhaul shops.
"Main building" means the principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a lot, or the building
or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use upon a lot.
“Manufacturing, Heavy” means the manufacture or compounding process of raw materials. These
activities or processes would necessitate the storage of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter
or explosive materials needed for the manufacturing process. These activities may involve outdoor
operations as part of their manufacturing process.




                                                 Page 13 of 29
“Manufacturing, Light” means an establishment primarily engaged in the production, fabrication,
processing, or assembly of goods and materials using processes that ordinarily do not create noise,
smoke, fumes, odors, glare, or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot where such
activities take place and are located entirely within a building. Such uses include research and
development facilities and testing laboratories. These uses do not include refineries, rock crushers,
incinerators, and similar uses.
“Meat or Poultry Processing Facility” means a building where live animals are killed and processed;
and/or a building where meat, poultry, or eggs are cooked, smoked, or otherwise processed or packed
but does not include a butcher shop.
Medical, Urgent Care, and Dental Clinic. See Office, Medical.”
“Membrane Covered Frame Structure” means a nonpressurized building wherein the structure is
composed of a rigid framework to support a tensioned membrane that provides the weather barrier.
“Micromobility Support Infrastructure” means infrastructure, such as docking stations, signage, or
other small-scale infrastructure, needed to support licensed micromobility systems. Micromobility shall
mean small, light-weight, and low-speed (less than 30mph) motorized vehicles that may be part of a
shared-use program.
“Mining (Subsurface)” means mining by digging or constructing access tunnels, adits, ramps, or shafts
and excavating directly from the natural mineral deposits exposed.
“Mining (Surface)” means mining by removing the overburden lying above the natural deposits and
excavating directly from the natural deposits exposed, or by excavating directly from deposits lying
exposed in their natural state, and shall include dredge operations conducted in or on natural or
artificially created waterways.
“Minor ski resort improvements” means construction activities associated with the ongoing operation
and maintenance of previously approved facilities, ski runs, ski trails, ski lifts, and related resort
appurtenances, equipment, recreational access corridors, pedestrian or non-motorized trails, non-snow
related activities, and accessory uses, or vehicular maintenance roads constructed or used in connection
with the construction, operation, or maintenance of a resort.
“Mobile Home” means a dwelling unit designed to be transported, after fabrication, on its own wheels
designed and intended for permanent occupancy as an independent dwelling unit, upon connection to
required utility systems; but which is not constructed in compliance with the municipality’s adopted
Building, Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing Codes or the Federal Manufactured Home Construction
and Safety Standards (HUD Code). The term "mobile home" shall also include any structure meeting the
above description, which is used for an office, classroom, laboratory, processing, manufacturing, retail
sales, or other such uses.
“Mobile Home Park” means an area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or more mobile
homes intended to be occupied as residences connected to required utility systems.
“Mobile Store” means a business that is carried out entirely from a motor vehicle or thing that is
designed to be or is mobile such as hand pushcarts and self-propelled kiosks, whereby the entire
inventory offered for sale is carried and contained in the motor vehicle or thing that is designed to be or
is mobile at the time the stock is offered for sale and is delivered to the purchaser at the time of sale.
This use excludes food trucks/mobile restaurants, as defined in this chapter.
“Model Home/Temporary Sales Offices” means a dwelling unit, unoccupied for residential purposes,
temporarily used for display purposes as an example of dwelling units available or to be available for


                                                Page 14 of 29
sale or rental in a particular subdivision or other approved residential development. Model Home may
also include sales or rental offices for dwellings within the development.
“Mortuary or Funeral Home” means an establishment providing services such as preparing the human
dead for burial, arranging and managing funerals, and necessary sales. Funeral establishments may
include funeral chapels, limited caretaker facilities, and limited cremation facilities that do not accept
remains from other funeral establishments. “Mortuary or Funeral Home” does not include
crematoriums as a primary use, cemeteries, columbariums, and mausoleums.
Motel, See “Hotel.”
"Noncomplying structure" means a building or other structure or portion thereof lawfully constructed
in compliance with the zoning ordinance existing at the time of construction, that no longer conforms to
the height, area, and/or yard regulations in the zone in which it is located due to changes to the zoning
ordinance or to the subsequent public acquisition of land for public improvements. Includes
Nonconforming Structures.
"Nonconforming use" means a use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time the ordinance
codified in this title became effective and which does not conform with the use regulations of the zone
in which it is located.
“Nursing Home, Convalescent Care Center” means a health care facility, other than a general acute or
specialty hospital, constructed, licensed, and operated to provide patient living accommodations, 24-
hour staff availability, and at least two of the following patient services: (a) a selection of patient care
services, under the direction and supervision of a registered nurse, ranging from continuous medical,
skilled nursing, psychological, or other professional therapies to intermittent health-related or
paraprofessional personal care services; (b) a structured, supportive social living environment based on
a professionally designed and supervised treatment plan, oriented to the individual's habilitation or
rehabilitation needs; or (c) a supervised living environment that provides support, training, or assistance
with individual activities of daily living.
“Office, General” means a building offering executive, administrative, professional, or clerical services,
or a portion of a building wherein services are performed involving predominately operations with
limited client visits and limited traffic generated by employees and/or clients.
“Office, Intensive” means a business offering executive, administrative, professional, or clerical services
with a high level of client interaction and traffic generated; and/or a business that employs five (5) or
more persons per one thousand (1,000) square feet of net leasable office space.
“Office, Medical” means a building used by physicians, dentists, and similar personnel for the treatment
and examination of patients solely on an outpatient basis, provided that no overnight patients shall be
kept on the premises.
“Off Street Parking” means a site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off-street parking of vehicles,
including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and landscaped areas, and providing vehicular access to a
public street.
"Organic disposal site" means a disposal site where settled or precipitated solid matter produced by
water and sewage treatment processes is disposed of in compliance with the board of health
requirements, using sanitary land-filling techniques, in a manner that does not create a nuisance or
health hazard, that protects the environment, and will not cause a pollution source of water, air, etc.
“Open Space” means land devoted to conservation or recreational purposes and/or land designated by
a municipality to remain undeveloped (may be specified on a zoning map).


                                                Page 15 of 29
“Outdoor dining” means an area of designated size used as a seating area with tables and chairs for the
contiguous restaurant.
“Outdoor Recreation, Large Scale, and including Outdoor Entertainment Locations” means areas or
facilities that offer recreation or entertainment outside and require significant land or are expected to
create a larger impact. Such uses include shooting ranges, go-carts, motor vehicle and/or motorbike
tracks, golf courses, zoological parks and botanical gardens, amphitheaters, outdoor stages and concert
venues, or similar activities that may create noise, dust, or other nuisances to adjoining and surrounding
uses.
Outdoor Storage. See “Accessory Outdoor Storage”
“Package agency” means a retail liquor location operated under a contractual agreement with the Utah
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, by a person other than the state, who is authorized by the
commission to sell package liquor for consumption off the premises of the agency.
“Park and Ride” means an area or structure intended to accommodate parked vehicles for the general
public, where commuters park their vehicles and continue to travel to another destination via public
transit, carpool, vanpool, or bicycle. The parking lot may be shared with other uses or stand-alone.
"Parking lot" means an open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than four automobiles
and available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or
customers.
"Parking space" means space within a building, lot, or parking lot for the parking or storage of one
automobile.
“Pawn Shop” means any person, firm, corporation, or business that loans money on deposit of personal
property, or deals in the purchase, exchange, or possession of personal property on condition of selling
the same back again to the pledgor or depositor, or loans or advances money on personal property by
taking chattel mortgage security thereon, and takes or receives such personal property.
“Permitted use” means any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the restrictions applicable to
that zoning district.
“Personal Care Services” means an establishment primarily engaged in the provision of frequently or
recurrently needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses include beauty and barbershops, custom
tailoring and seamstress shops, electrolysis studios, portrait studios, shoe repair shops, tanning and nail
salons, permanent makeup facilities, tattoo and body piercing establishments, and weight loss centers.
“Personal Instruction Services” means an establishment engaged in the provision of informational,
instructional, personal improvement, and similar services of a professional nature or by a nonprofit
organization. Typical uses include art and music schools, driving instruction, computer instruction,
gymnastic and dance studios, handicraft or hobby instruction, and martial arts training.
“Planned Unit Development” means an Integrated Design for development of residential, commercial,
or industrial uses, or limited combinations of such uses, in which the density and location regulations of
the district in which the development is situated may be varied or waived to allow flexibility and
initiative in site and building design and location, in accordance with an approved plan and imposed
requirements.
“Post Office” means a facility that contains service windows for mailing packages and letters, post office
boxes, offices, vehicle storage areas, and sorting and distribution facilities for mail.




                                                Page 16 of 29
“Pre-existing lot” means a lot that was created prior to ______________, through a recorded
subdivision plat, deed, sales contract, or survey, and a lot that met the zoning regulations in effect at the
time of its creation. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing lot is a nonconforming lot and shall be
regulated in the same manner as nonconforming lots.
“Pre-existing structure” means a structure that was legally constructed prior to the adoption of this
ordinance. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing structure is a nonconforming structure and shall
be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming structures.
“Pre-existing use” means a use that validly existed prior to the adoption of this ordinance and has not
been abandoned for more than one year. For the purposes of this title, a pre-existing use is a
nonconforming use and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming uses.
"Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in
public schools" means private training schools and other private schools which are instructional in
nature, including laboratory and shop instruction with the use of demonstration vehicles, products, or
models incidental to such instruction, but not including the repair, maintenance or manufacture of
vehicles, goods or merchandise, not providing direct services other than instruction to the general
public.
"Private nonprofit locker club" means a social club, recreational, athletic, or kindred association
incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Nonprofit Corporation and Cooperation Act, which
maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor is or will be stored, consumed, or sold.
"Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities" means nonprofit recreational grounds and
facilities operated by an association incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Nonprofit
Corporation and Cooperation Act or a corporate sole.
“Private Residential Tennis Court/Sports Court” means a recreation court requiring a base surface with
a gross square footage of four hundred square feet or more, permitted as an accessory use to and on
the same lot as a single-family residential dwelling.
“Private Swimming Pool” means any structure or container holding water to a depth of eighteen inches
(18") or greater and having either a diameter or diagonal measurement of ten feet (10’) or greater,
permitted as an accessory use to and on the same lot as a single-family residential dwelling.
“Protective Housing” means a facility operated, licensed, or contracted by a governmental entity, or
operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization, where, for no compensation, temporary, protective
housing is provided to: (1) Abused or neglected children awaiting placement in foster care; (2) Pregnant
or parenting teens; (3) Victims of sexual abuse; or (4) Victims of domestic abuse.
“Public Parks” means parks that are maintained by a public agency.
“Public Service Training Facility” means an establishment for training state and local law enforcement,
fire safety, national guard, transit personnel, or other public service personnel and accessory facilities
including but not limited to dining and overnight accommodations, classrooms, indoor shooting ranges,
auto test tracks, and fire suppression simulations.
"Public Use" means a use operated exclusively by a public body, or quasi-public body, such use having
the purpose of serving the public health, safety, or general welfare, and including uses such as public
schools, parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities, government and public utility
administrative offices, fire stations, police stations, and facilities that are part of the local service
delivery system for public utilities. "Public use" does not include public utility production, storage, and



                                                 Page 17 of 29
treatment facilities such as power plants, refineries, natural gas processing and storage plants, water
treatment plants, or sewage treatment facilities.
“Public Utility, Major” means structures that house operations for public utilities like, but not
limited to, power generation plants, electrical switching stations, primary substations, refuse
collection and disposal facilities, and water and wastewater treatment facilities and similar
facilities.
“Public Utility, Minor” means local utility structures that are necessary for a specific development or
service like, but not limited to, poles and lines.
“Public Utility” includes every railroad corporation, gas corporation, electrical corporation, distribution
electrical cooperative, wholesale electrical cooperative, telephone corporation, telegraph corporation,
water corporation, sewerage corporation, heat corporation, and independent energy producer not
described in Section 54-2-201 where the service is performed for, or the commodity delivered to, the
public generally, or in the case of a gas corporation or electrical corporation where the gas or electricity
is sold or furnished to any member or consumers within the state for domestic, commercial, or
industrial use.
“Public Utility Easement” An area on a recorded plat map or other recorded document that is dedicated
to the use and installation of public utility lines, mains, services, and minor facilities.
“Rail transit mixed-use” means a use that allows rail-oriented development that combines different
land uses within a single development, tract of land, building, or structure. Its purpose is to encourage
development that is high quality, human-scale, and pedestrian-friendly, while creating a variety of
complementary and integrated uses, such as but not limited to, residential, office, manufacturing, retail,
public, or entertainment, in a compact, walkable, urban form.
“Reception Hall, Reception Center” means a room or building for the purpose of hosting a party,
banquet, wedding, or other reception or social event. Such halls are often found within pubs,
clubs, hotels, or restaurants.
“Recreation Facility, Commercial” means recreation facilities operated as a business on private or public
property and open to the public for a fee.
“Recreation Facility, Private” means a recreation facility operated on private property and not open to
the public, including recreation facilities owned by a homeowners' or property owners' association for
private use.
“Recreation Facility, Public” means a recreation facility operated by a public agency and open to the
public with or without a fee.
“Recycling Processing Facility” means a building or enclosed space for the collection and processing of
recyclable materials. “Processing” means the preparation of material for efficient shipment, or to an end
user’s specifications, by such means as baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing,
shredding, mechanical sorting, cleaning, and re-manufacturing.
“Rehabilitation/Treatment Facilities” means a facility licensed by or contracted by the State of Utah to
provide temporary occupancy and supervision of adults or juveniles in order to provide rehabilitation,
treatment, or counseling services. Without limitation, such services may include rehabilitation,
treatment, counseling, or assessment and evaluation services related to delinquent behavior, alcohol
and drug abuse, sex offenders, sexual abuse, or mental health. Associated education services may also




                                                Page 18 of 29
be provided to juvenile occupants. Does not include residential facilities for the elderly or persons with
disabilities.
"Resource recycling collection point" means a portable structure, enclosed bin, trailer, or reverse
vending machine where recyclable material (aluminum cans, glass, paper, etc.) is exchanged for money
or deposited as a donation.
“Reiki” means a business devoted primarily to Reiki healing, or any other system that has elements of
the following. The practitioner, trained to access and serve as a channel for a sacred life force, places his
or her hands on or just above the client's body in order to activate healing energy within receptive
points on the body. The practitioner's hands move progressively with a passive touch through various
positions on the body, remaining in each position for a period of time. As a harmonic flow of energy is
strengthened, within the client and practitioner, healing occurs through the return of physical, mental,
and spiritual balance. For purposes of this title, a Reiki business shall not include Reiki healing, or similar
system, which are performed in a hospital or medical clinic.
“Residential Facility for Elderly Persons” means a dwelling unit owned by a resident thereof or an
immediate family member of a resident, or for which the title has been placed in trust for a resident;
and is voluntarily occupied on a twenty-four (24) hour per day basis by eight (8) or fewer elderly persons
in a family-type arrangement. A "residential facility for elderly persons" does not include any facility: (1)
Operated as a business; provided that such facility shall not be considered to be operated as a business
solely because a fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of operation and maintenance
of the facility; (2) Where persons are placed: (a) For alcoholism or drug abuse treatment; or (b) As part
of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional facility which is: (i) A health
care facility as defined by Utah Code or successor law, or (ii) A residential facility for persons with a
disability.
“Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability” means a residence: (1) In which more than one
person with a disability resides; and (a) Which is licensed or certified by the Department of Human
Services under Utah Code Title 62A, Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs and Facilities; or (b) Which is
licensed or certified by the Department of Health under Utah Code Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care
Facility Licensing and Inspection Act.
“Residential Keeping of Chickens or Ducks” means the keeping of a small number of domesticated hens
and/or ducks on a lot with a single-family dwelling for personal use only, subject to the standards and
requirements of this Title, Salt Lake County Animal Services, and Salt Lake County Health Department
that ensure that domesticated hens and ducks do not adversely impact the neighborhood surrounding
the property on which the domestic fowl are kept.
“Resort” means a place offering amenities for recreation and relaxation in addition to lodging and meals
to transient vacationers. May involve multiple, compatible uses of the land, such as open space,
agriculture, and lodging.
“Restaurant, Fast Food” means a building or facility that sells food and beverages primarily over a
counter, rather than by waitress or waiter; packages its’ food in wrappers, boxes, or cartons regardless if
the food is consumed on or off the restaurant premises; and typically provides a drive through/drive-up
facility.
“Restaurant, Sit-Down with or Without Alcohol” means a building or facility for the preparation, retail
sale, and on-site consumption of food and non-alcoholic and/or alcoholic beverages.




                                                 Page 19 of 29
“Retail and Service Commercial” means a business primarily engaged in the sale or rental of goods,
merchandise, or services directly to the consumer, and includes no outdoor storage. These uses do not
include sexually oriented businesses, retail tobacco specialty stores, check cashing, pawn shops, vehicle
or large equipment rental, sales, repair, or assembly. Uses include department, grocery, variety and drug
stores; art galleries; bakeries; jewelry stores; florists; auto parts stores; business and social services; and
similar uses. These uses may include twenty-four-hour uses and drive-up windows subject to this title.
“Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site" means Establishments (not
exceeding 5,000 Sq.Ft.) engaged in the selling of goods where the primary product is produced on-
site. This definition is limited to small-scale uses but can include bakeries, confectionaries, nut shops,
frame shops, restored furniture, cardmaking shops, jewelry-making stores, photo galleries, art galleries,
and pottery studios. This definition also includes ‘painting with a twist’, ‘paint nite’, paint-your-own-
ceramics businesses, and similar uses. A room or building for the display or sale of works of art, including
space for the artist to create displayed work.
“Retail Tobacco Specialty Business” means a commercial establishment in which: (a) the sales of
tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, and nicotine products account for more than 35% of
the total quarterly gross receipts for the establishment; (b) 20% or more of the public retail floor space
is allocated to the offer, display, or storage of tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, or
nicotine products; (c) 20% or more of the total shelf space is allocated to the offer, display, or storage of
tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, or nicotine products; (d) the commercial establishment
holds itself out as a retail tobacco specialty business and causes a reasonable person to believe the
commercial establishment is a retail tobacco specialty business; (e) any flavored electronic cigarette
product is sold; or (f) the retail space features a self-service display for tobacco products, electronic
cigarette products, or nicotine products. (Utah Code 10-8-§41.6)
“Salvage Yard” means a place where scrap, waste, discarded, or salvaged materials is brought, sold,
exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, or stored, including auto wrecking yards, house
wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or yards for storage of salvage, house wrecking, and
structural steel materials and equipment; but not including such places where such uses are conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building or yard, and not including pawnshops and establishments
for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment, used cars in operable
condition, or salvaged materials incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the premises.
“School, Charter” means (i) an operating charter school; (ii) a charter school applicant that has its
application approved by a charter school authorizer in accordance with Utah Code, Title 53G, Chapter 5,
Part 3, Charter School Authorization; or (iii) an entity that is working on behalf of a charter school or
approved charter applicant to develop or construct a charter school building. School, Charter does not
include a therapeutic school.
“Seasonal Sales” means a temporary use offering goods, services, or conducting an activity for a limited
duration of time, but in no case existing longer than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days. Such uses
may include fireworks stands, fruit or vegetable stands, beverage or snow cone vendors, Christmas tree
vendors, farmers' markets, holiday boutiques, and similar sales.
“Seasonal Use” means outdoor, seasonal commercial activities occurring for a limited duration of time,
but in no case existing longer than one hundred twenty (120) calendar days per year. Uses may include
corn mazes, pumpkin patches, or "haunted" villages. Includes year-round infrastructure.
“Self-Service Fuel Station” means a location where flammable or combustible liquids or gases are stored
and dispensed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. Such establishment may offer



                                                 Page 20 of 29
the retail sale of convenience items. “Self-Service Fuel Station” specifically excludes and does not allow
any servicing, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar mechanical equipment,
including engine, brake, muffler, tire repair, lubrication, and engine tune-up. “Self Service Fuel Station”
may be combined with “Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Minor” when the applicable zone allows both
uses. Does not include “Truck Stop and Service Facilities.”
“Self-Service Storage Facilities, Enclosed” means structures, commonly referred to as storage units,
containing separate enclosed, individual and private storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented on
individual leases for varying periods of time. Such facilities are to be used for dead storage only. The
following activities are prohibited within any self-storage enclosed storage facility: (1) Commercial,
wholesale or retail sales, or miscellaneous or garage sales. (2) The servicing, repair, or fabrication of
motor vehicles, boats, trailers, small engine equipment, or similar equipment. (3) The operation of
power tools, spray painting equipment, compressors, welding equipment, kilns, or similar equipment.
(4) The establishment of a transfer business. (5) Any use that is noxious or offensive because of odors,
dust, noise, or vibrations.
“Self-Service Storage Facilities, Outdoor” means the use of any lot, portion of a lot, or tract of land for
outside storage of operative automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, or non-motorized
storage, containing separate, individual and private storage spaces of varying sizes leased or rented on
individual leases for varying periods of time. The following activities are prohibited within any self-
storage outside storage facility: (1) Commercial, wholesale or retail sales, or miscellaneous or garage
sales. (2) The servicing, repair, or fabrication of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, small engine equipment,
or similar equipment. (3) The establishment of a transfer business. (4) Junkyard or impound yard. (5)
Storage of non-motorized storage shall not exceed the height of the screened fence. (6) Any use that is
noxious or offensive because of odors, dust, noise, or vibrations.
“Setback” means the shortest distance between the property line and any portion of a building or
structure.
“Sexually Oriented Business or Activity” means adult arcades, adult bookstores, adult novelty stores,
adult video stores, adult cabarets, or adult entertainment out-call services in the form of semi-nude
dancing or exhibitions, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, seminude model studios, or sexual
encounter establishments.
“Shopping Center” means a group of three or more commercial establishments that are planned,
developed, and managed as a unit with common areas for off-street parking and landscaping provided
on the properties.
“Short-Term Vacation Rental” means dwelling units meeting the requirements of Section ____, which
are rented out by the day for a period less than thirty (30) consecutive days, for pay, offering overnight
lodging to vacationers where the owner(s) live within the City limits.
“Side Yard, Corner Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a street.
“Side Yard, Interior Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a side or rear lot line of another lot.
“Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes” means an accessory use that allows for the spillover of seating
and/or sales displays onto the sidewalk in front of an existing business. Subject to limitations. Sidewalk
Café: a restaurant with tables on the sidewalk in front or on the side of the premises. Sidewalk Display:
the outdoor display of merchandise for sale by a business use.
“Sign” means any words, letters, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, trade names, or trademarks, by which anything is made known, such as are used to designate



                                                 Page 21 of 29
an individual, a firm, an association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a commodity, an event, a
gathering, or product, which are visible from any public way. “Sign” also includes the sign structure
supports, lighting system, and any attachments, ornaments, or other features intended to draw the
attention of observers.
“Sign alteration” means a change or rearrangement in the structural part or design of a sign whether by
extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by relocating or changing position.
“Sign area” means the area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the minimum frame
and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-back or double-faced sign shall be
computed when signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not more than ten
degrees. For signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, the sign area shall be computed
on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle, or circle large enough to frame the display. Sign areas in the
shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder, cone, pyramid, square, or other such shape shall be computed as
one-half of the total surface area.
“Sign height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point on the perimeter of the
sign to the highest point of the sign structure.
“Sign, Illegal” means a sign that is not permitted or allowed to be established in a zone, does not meet
the requirements of the zoning ordinance, and/or has not received nonconforming status. Any sign not
specifically listed as a permitted or conditional use is prohibited in that zone.
“Sign maintenance” means the upkeep of signs in a safe, presentable and good condition, including the
replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning, and other acts required for the maintenance of said
sign.
“Sign, Monument” means a ground sign permanently affixed to the ground at its base, supported
entirely by a base structure that is flush to the ground, and not mounted on a pole.
“Sign setback” means the minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign structure shall be from
any street property line.
“Sign structure” means anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which requires location on or
below the ground or attached to something having a location on or below the ground.
“Sign, Off-premises directional” means an off-premises sign containing no advertising and used for
directional purposes only.
“Sign, Off-premises” means a sign advertising an establishment, merchandise, service, or
entertainment, which is not primarily sold, produced, manufactured, or furnished at the property on
which said sign is located. A billboard is an off-premises sign.
“Sign, On-premises” means a sign directing attention to a use conducted, product or commodity sold,
service performed, or business name upon the premises on which it is located.
“Sign, Vehicle” means a sign or advertising device attached to or located on a vehicle or trailer parked
on a public right-of-way, public property, or parking area with access by the general public so as to be
visible from a public right-of-way for the basic purpose of directing people to a business or activity.
“Sign, Wall” means a sign that is either painted on a wall or its facing and not having a sign frame or
separation from the wall or facing.
“Sign, Window” means a sign permanently attached to an exterior window or located within a building
so as to be visible through a window or a door outside of the building.



                                                 Page 22 of 29
“Ski Resort” means a ski area that also includes sales, rentals, and services of related equipment and
accessories, eating places, residences, and hotels and motels.
“Solar Energy System, Accessory” means a roof-mounted, wall mounted, or ground mounted panel, the
primary purpose of which is to provide for the collection, inversion, storage, and distribution of solar
energy for electricity generation, space heating, space cooling, or water heating of buildings located on
the same property.
“Solar Energy System, Commercial” means a solar array meant for commercial production of energy.
“Solar Evaporation Pond for the Processing of Salt” means the recovery of minerals in solution through
natural evaporation and subsequent harvesting.
“Stealth Design” means the use of alternative support structures to blend or hide the communication
equipment with the design, shape, or color of the structure. Examples of stealth design are, but are not
limited to, field lights, clock towers, bell towers, water towers, flagpoles, windmills, monuments, etc.
“Storage – Hazardous Materials” means the storage of any item or chemical which is a health or
physical hazard, or can cause harm to people, plants, or animals when released by spilling, leaking,
pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing
into the environment.
“Storage Yard” means the location of goods, wares, merchandise, commodities, equipment, materials,
or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a continuous period longer than twenty-
four (24) hours when such storage is a primary characteristic of a permitted use or constitutes more
than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris
not usually appurtenant to permitted on-site uses is prohibited. Storage yards shall be screened from
public view by a minimum six-foot (6') high masonry fence and, when outdoor storage occurs in a front
yard, side yard, or any other location within the public view, additional screening of a height and
material determined by the Planning Commission. For the purposes of this title, construction yards,
lumber yards, and like uses are considered to be storage yards as regulated herein. Compare with the
definition of "accessory outdoor storage".
"Sportsman's kennel" means a kennel for the keeping of three to five dogs that has a valid permit from
the department of animal services and is located on a lot of at least one acre.
"Stable, private" means a detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned by the
occupants of the premises, and not kept for remuneration, hire, or sale.
"Stable, public" means a stable other than a private stable.
"Start of construction" includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement, or other
improvement was within one hundred eighty days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. "Permanent construction" does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations
or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure.
"Story" means that portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and the upper
surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall be that portion of a building


                                                 Page 23 of 29
included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished
floor level directly above a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet above grade for
more than fifty percent of the total perimeter or is more than twelve feet above grade at any point, such
usable or unused underfloor space shall be considered as a story.
"Story, First" means the lowest story in a building that qualifies as a story, except that a floor level in a
building having only one floor level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not
more than four feet below grade for more than fifty percent of the total perimeter, or not more than
eight feet below grade at any point.
"Story, Half" means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in a sloping roof, the floor
area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor immediately below it.
"Street" means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and accepted by
proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less than twenty-five feet wide, which has been made
public by right of use and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property. Street does
not include alleys or trails.
"Structure" means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground, or attached
to something having a location on the ground.
"Structural alterations" means any change in supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
"Substantial improvement" means:
  A. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds
     fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:
    1. Before the improvement or repair is started; or
    2. If the structure is damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
  B. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
     alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, whether
     or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
  C. The term does not, however, include either:
    1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
       sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions;
       or
    2. Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State
       Inventory of Historic Places.
“Swap meets and flea markets” means a market operating for the sale or exchange of merchandise at
retail by many sellers within a drive-in theater or enclosed building. This does not include garage sales.
Tavern. See “Bar.”
“Telecommunication Facilities, Wireless Communication Facilities, and Radio/TV Transmitting
Towers” means facilities used for the transmission or reception of electromagnetic or electro-optic
information, which is placed on a structure. Telecommunications Sites/Facilities do not include Amateur
Radio equipment that complies with the ruling of the Federal Communications Commission in “Amateur
Radio Preemption, 101 FCC 2nd 952 (1985)” or amateur radio service adopted under 47 C.F.R. Part 97.



                                                 Page 24 of 29
“Temporary Construction Office” means a temporary building or structure used as a construction office
for a project located on the same site during its construction. A temporary construction office must be
removed from the property prior to the final certificate of occupancy being issued on the building or
project.
“Temporary Residential Dwelling Unit” means a temporary dwelling used during the construction of a
new home. May be existing home to be removed, trailer or RV. Must have hookups to water and
sewer/septic system. Approval for temporary dwelling valid for 1 year, may be extended in 6-month
increments if building permit is progressing. Bonding for removal of unit required. Terrible Idea, hard to
get rid of them when the home is complete.
“Temporary Use” means a use proposed to be established for a maximum period of ninety (90) days or
use being discontinued after the expiration of ninety (90) days and conducted in compliance with all the
requirements of this title. Such uses may include, but are not limited to; nonprofit fund-raising activities,
and educational, historic, religious, and patriotic displays or exhibits.
“Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)” means buildings that contain screens, stages, or other platforms
around which patrons gather to experience film, theater, and other performances. Concessions may be
allowed as an accessory use. Such uses include concert halls, play theaters, cinemas, comedy clubs,
operas, and orchestra and symphony halls. Does not include outdoor theaters and concert halls (see
“Outdoor Recreation, Large Scale, and including Outdoor Entertainment Locations”).
“Therapeutic School” means a residential group living facility: (a) for four or more individuals that are
not related to the owner of the facility or the primary service provider of the facility; (b) that serves
students who have a history of failing to function at home, in a public school, or in a nonresidential
private school; and (c) that offers room and board, and an academic education integrated with (i)
specialized structure and supervision or (ii) services or treatment related to a disability, emotional
development, behavioral development, familial development, or social development. (Utah Code 62A-2-
§101)
“Tiny Home” means a dwelling less than 400 square feet in size, not including loft space, that meets
building code requirements and is on a permanent foundation. A tiny home is either a single-family
dwelling or an accessory dwelling unit. A tiny home used as the primary residential use on a lot or parcel
is a single-family dwelling for the purposes of this ordinance. A tiny home used as an accessory dwelling
is subject to the same restrictions as any other accessory dwelling unit.
“Towing Services and Impound Lots” means the temporary storage of vehicles that have been towed,
carried, hauled, or pushed from public to private property for impoundment in a public or private
impound yard.
“Transitional Housing” means a building or facility owned, operated, or contracted by a governmental
entity or a charitable, nonprofit organization that provide free temporary housing to homeless persons
for at least thirty (30) days while they obtain work, job skills, or otherwise take steps to stabilize their
circumstances. Transitional Housing Facilities do not include homeless shelters, dwelling units provided
to a family for more than 30 days as part of a transitional housing program, or residential facilities for
elderly persons or persons with disabilities.
“Transmission Line/Right of Way (Major)” means an electric power, gas, or petroleum transmission
facility with the required right-of-way designed to provide for the location of transmission lines or
facilities to operate at voltages of 140,000 volts (140 kV), or greater or eight (8) inches in diameter and
that provides electrical, gas, or petroleum products transmission and found by the City to conform to




                                                 Page 25 of 29
the General Plan, or has been considered by the Commission and Council and a General Plan
amendment has been approved.
“Transmission Line/Right of Way (Minor)” means an electric power, gas, or petroleum transmission
facility with the required right-of-way designed to provide for the location of transmission lines or
facilities to operate at voltages less than 140,000 volts (140 kV) or less than eight (8) inches in diameter
and that provides electrical, gas, or petroleum products transmission and found by the City to conform
to the General Plan, or has been considered by the Commission and Council and a General Plan
amendment has been approved.
“Truck Stop and Service Facilities” means facilities intended to provide services to the trucking industry,
including but not limited to, dispensing of fuel, servicing, repair, automated washes, and overnight
parking. The facilities may also include overnight accommodations, showers, or restaurant facilities
primarily for the use of truck crews. Such establishment may offer the retail sale of convenience items.
Twin Home. See “Dwelling, Two Family.”
“Underground record storage vaults” means the secured and climate-controlled underground facilities
provided for the storage of records, documents, or other media.
“Vertical indoor agriculture” means growing crops in vertically stacked layers indoors, often
incorporating controlled-environment agricultural techniques and soilless farming techniques such
as hydroponics, aquaponics, or aeroponics.
“Vehicle” means a self-propelled device used for transporting persons or things, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, watercraft, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and recreation vehicles. Does not
include heavy machinery.
“Vehicle Assembly” means a business where finished vehicle-related parts are put together to develop a
final product.
 "Vehicle, Commercial" means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or intended for business use -
including but not limited to the transportation of commercial equipment, merchandise, produce, freight,
commodities, passengers, or animals - and which is characterized by any of the following:
    A. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and the like,
       which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
    B. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks, semi-tractors,
       semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles,
    C. Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed, a dumping
       mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading materials/equipment, aerial
       buckets or platforms, or other similar feature,
    D. Vehicles with more than two axles, or
    E. Vehicles with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds.
“Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Commercial and Industrial” means the repair and service of
commercial vehicles and trailers with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred
(8,500) pounds as well as industrial or other heavy equipment. Typical uses include semi-trailer truck
repair, and the repair of bulldozers, graders, dump trucks, cement mixers, and similar heavy industrial
and construction equipment.


                                                Page 26 of 29
“Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Major” means an establishment primarily engaged in the major repair
of motor vehicles or equipment. Typical uses include major auto repair such as the removal of engines
and transmissions, rebuilding of engines and transmissions, repair of the internal components, repair or
removal of differentials or axles, body work and paint. "Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Major" may also
include uses that are often accessory to businesses engaged in the repair of vehicles such as offices, part
sales, storage of merchandise, and vehicle storage when such vehicle storage is fully and adequately
screened. "Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Major" does not include repair and service of commercial
vehicles and trailers with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds,
industrial or other heavy equipment, "vehicle assembly", "manufacturing use", auto dismantling or
wrecking, salvage, "junkyards", or similar uses.
“Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Minor” means an establishment providing motor vehicle repair or
maintenance services and conducted entirely within completely enclosed buildings and may include the
retail sale of fuels, lubricants, and other supplies for motor vehicles. Typical uses include businesses
engaged in the following activities: electronic tune-ups, brake repairs (including drum turning), air
conditioning repairs, auto detailing, generator and starter repairs, muffler and other minor underbody
repair, frontend alignments, battery recharging, lubrication, and other similar repairs. Vehicle and
Equipment Repair (Minor) also includes sales, repair and installation of minor parts and accessories such
as tires, batteries, windshield wipers, hoses, windows, etc. Vehicle and Equipment Repair (Minor) does
not include paint and body shops, or other activities associated with Vehicle and Equipment Repair
(Major), auto dismantling or wrecking, salvage, junkyards, and similar uses.
“Vehicle Rental” means a business primarily engaged in the rental of vehicles.
“Vehicle Sales and Service” means the use of any building, land area, or other premises for the display
and sale or lease of more than three (3) new or used vehicles, and including outside storage of
inventory, indoor vehicle part and accessory sales, any warranty repair work, and other repair service
conducted as an accessory use. “Vehicle Sales and Service” includes the sale or lease of new or used
boats, cars, light trucks, motorcycles, off-road vehicles, camp trailers, recreational vehicles, motor
homes, and utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of less than eight thousand five hundred
(8,500) pounds. “Vehicle Sales and Service” does not include the sale or lease of semi-trailer trucks,
semi-trailers, or utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of over five thousand (5,000) pounds.
“Vehicle Sales and Service, Commercial Vehicles and Trailers” includes the sale or lease of semi-trailer
trucks, semi-trailers, or utility or box trailers with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five
hundred (8,500) pounds. “Vehicle Sales and Service, Commercial Vehicles and Trailers” includes outside
storage of inventory, indoor vehicle part and accessory sales, any warranty repair work, and other repair
services conducted as an accessory use.
“Vehicle Sales, Small Dealership” means a business specializing in the sale of a limited number of new
and/or used vehicles, with no more than three (3) vehicles displayed outside at any one time and with
no more than a total of eight (8) vehicles stored on-site at any given time and licensed as required by the
State of Utah. A small dealership may be permitted as an accessory use to a related business on the
same property and under the same ownership.
“Vending cart” means a small wheeled, nonmotorized device from which to sell food and/or
merchandise for immediate consumption or use. (May not be needed)



                                                Page 27 of 29
“Warehouse and Distribution Facilities” means buildings used primarily for the inside storage and
distribution of goods and materials, which include land and buildings used as a relay station for the
transfer of goods from one vehicle or party to another, and the parking and storage of tractor and/or
other trailer units.
Water Pumping Plant and Reservoir” means a natural or artificial water storage basin with a pumping
station to distribute potable or irrigation water.
“Water Treatment Facility” means the facility or facilities within the water supply system which can
alter the physical, chemical, or bacteriological quality of the water.
“Wind Energy System, Accessory” means a wind energy system that is accessory to the main use and is
designed to power only the site on which it is constructed.
“Wind Energy System, Commercial” means a wind energy system consisting of one or more wind
turbines for commercial generation.
“Wireless Facility” means equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communication between
user equipment and a communications network, including (a) equipment associated with wireless
communication; and (ii) regardless of the technological configuration, a radio transceiver, an antenna, a
coaxial or fiber-optic cable, a regular or back up power supply, or comparable equipment. Wireless
Facility does not include the structure or an improvement on, under, or within which the equipment is
collocated; or a coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is: between wireless structures or utility poles; not
immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna; or a wireline backhaul facility.
(Utah Code 54-21-§101)
“Wireless Telecommunications Antenna” means the physical device through which electromagnetic,
wireless telecommunications signals authorized by the Federal Communications Commission are
transmitted or received. Antennas used by amateur radio operators are excluded from this definition.
“Wireless Telecommunications Equipment Shelter” means the structure in which the electronic
receiving and relay equipment for a wireless telecommunications facility is housed.
“Wireless Telecommunications Site/Facility” means an unmanned structure that consists of equipment
used primarily for the transmission, reception, or transfer of voice or data through radio wave or
wireless transmissions. Such sites typically require the construction of transmission support structures
to which antenna equipment is attached.
“Wireless Telecommunications Tower” means a facility consisting of the equipment and structures
involved in receiving telecommunications or radio signals from a mobile radio communications source
and transmitting those signals to a central switching computer that connects the mobile unit with the
land-based telephone lines.
"Yard" means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward by buildings or structures, except as follows:
    A. Fences and walls that conform with this code.
    B. Landscape elements including trees, shrubs, and other plants.
    C. Necessary appurtenances for utility services associated with minor public utilities.
    D. Planter boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty-four inches (24”) in height.
    E. Cornices, eaves, belt courses, buttresses, and other similar architectural features may project
       into any yard not more than two feet (2’).


                                               Page 28 of 29
    F. Bay windows, cantilevered floors, and fireplace structures may project into any yard not more
       than two feet (2’), provided that they are not wider than eight feet (8’) wide.
    G. Porches, door stoops, awnings, fire escapes, and stairways may project into an interior side yard
       not more than two feet (2’) and a front, rear, or corner side yard not more than four feet (4’).
    H. Accessory structures subject to this title.
"Yard, Front" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of the building and
the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the front yard is the
minimum distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building.
"Yard, Rear" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of the building and
the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the rear yard is the minimum
distance between the rear lot line and the rear line of the building.
“Yard, Required” means the open space around buildings which is required by the terms of this title.
"Yard, Side" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of the building and
the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width" of the side yard shall be
the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side line of the building. See “Side Yard, Interior
Lot” and “Side Yard, Corner Lot”.
“Yurt (Remote Yurt)” means a membrane-covered frame structure that:
    A. is no larger than 710 square feet;
    B. is not used as a permanent residence;
    C. is located in an unincorporated county area that is not zoned for residential, commercial,
       industrial, or agricultural use;
    D. does not have plumbing or electricity;
    E. is set back at least 300 feet from any river, stream, lake, or other body of water; and
    F. registers with the local health department.




                                                Page 29 of 29
                        Parks and Open Space Zoning Districts – Staff Summary

Purposes:

    1. Create new zoning districts that adequately preserve and enhance communities’ parks and open
       spaces.
    2. Distinguish between improved/developed park spaces and more natural open spaces.
    3. Establish standards for lighting, landscaping, and other elements that enhance park and open
       space areas.

Applicability:

The PR Zone is intended to be applied to existing park areas, especially those that have been enhanced
through paved trails and other recreational amenities.

The OS Zone is meant for more natural open spaces such as wildlife corridors, sensitive lands, and
viewsheds. This should be applied in areas where the primary goal is conservation. Only limited
improvements – such as non-paved trails – are allowed.

Resources Utilized:

    •   Vineyard Zoning Ordinance
    •   Salt Lake City Zoning Ordinance
    •   South Jordan Zoning Ordinance
    •   Portland Zoning Ordinance

Changes to Note:

This Chapter is entirely new. There are no changes to note. Parks and open spaces were previously held
under different zoning designations that did not necessarily protect them from development.
                                  Chapter 19.22: Parks and Recreation Zone
                                DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 1st, 2022
Chapter 19.22 Contents

  19.22.010 – Purpose of Provisions............................................................................................................ 2
  19.22.020 – Establishment of Parks and Recreation Zone. ...................................................................... 2
  19.22.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses. .................................................. Error! Bookmark not defined.
  19.22.040 – Schedule of Uses, Special Conditions.................................................................................... 4
  19.22.050 – Development Standards. ...................................................................................................... 4
  19.22.060 – Required Yards and Setbacks. ............................................................................................... 5
  19.22.070 – Height Exceptions. ................................................................................................................ 5
  19.22.080 – Parking Requirements. .......................................................................................................... 5
  19.22.090 – Landscaping and Screening Standards. ................................................................................. 5
  19.22.100 – Lighting Standards................................................................................................................. 6
  19.22.110 – General Information. ............................................................................................................ 7


Sections:

19.22.010 – Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the Parks and Recreation Zone is to preserve and enhance public and private open space,
natural areas and habitats, and improved park and recreational areas. The Zone provides opportunities
for active and passive outdoor recreation; provides contrasts to and relief from the built environment;
preserves scenic qualities and viewsheds; protects sensitive or fragile environmental areas such as
wetlands, steep slopes, ridge lines, meadows, and stream corridors; encourages sustainability and
conservation; and provides transportation connections for people walking, biking, scootering, or using
other forms of active transportation.

19.22.020 – Establishment of Parks and Recreation Zone.

To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of the municipality and implement greenway, natural
resource preservation, and health and recreation concepts included in the adopted General Plan, Kearns
establishes the following zone:

A. Parks and Recreation District (PR): The PR Zone is intended for improved parks, recreational areas,
   and other public and private open spaces which can accommodate human use and visitation.
   Encouraged uses in this Zone include public parks, multi-use trails, ball fields, special uses such as
   mobile food carts and festivals, and landscaping and equipment sheds.

B. Natural Open Space District (OS): The OS Zone is intended for preserving natural areas of the
   municipality, including sensitive lands, critical habitats, wildlife corridors, viewsheds, and stream
   corridors. Limited, unimproved recreational uses may be allowed in the OS Zone when negative
   impacts of recreation and visitation can be mitigated.
19.22.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.

A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title.

B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination
   of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.22.030, the more restrictive provisions of
   this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to Conditional Use (“C”)
   approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review, the entire development
   shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.

C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:

    1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.

    2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to mitigate
       the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for uses
       with this designation.

    3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
       19.XX.030 is prohibited in this zone.

                             Table 19.XX.030: Schedule of Uses for PR and OS Zones.
     Use Categories                                               PR                         OS
     AGRICULTURAL:
     Agricultural Building                                         P                         X
     Agriculture                                                   P                         X
     Agritourism                                                   C                         X
     Apiary                                                        P                         C
     Aviary                                                        P                         X
     RESIDENTIAL USES:
                                                        No residential uses are permitted in these zones.
     RETAIL AND SERVICES:
     Child Care                                                    P                         X
     FOOD AND DRINK:
     Food Truck / Mobile Restaurant / Food Cart                    P                         X
     RECREATIONAL:
     Campground C                                                  C                         X
     Commercial Recreation                                         P                         X
     Multi-use Trail, Paved                                        P                         X
     Multi-use Trail, Unpaved                                      P                         P
     Open Space                                                    P                         P
     Private, Non-Profit Recreational Grounds and
                                                                   C                         X
     Facilities
     Recreation Facility - Private, Public, or
                                                                  P                         X
     Commercial
     Stable, Public                                               C                         X
     Trailhead Infrastructure, Large Scale: paved
     parking, restrooms, wayfinding and
                                                                  P                         X
     interpretive signage, trash receptacles, other
     improvements
     Trailhead Infrastructure, Small Scale: unpaved
     parking (10 or less spaces), pit toilet, wooden              P                         P
     trail signage.
     LODGING:
     Yurt                                                         P                         X
     INDUSTRIAL:
                                                        No industrial uses are permitted in these zones.
     INSTITUTIONAL USES:
     Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple,
                                                                  P                         X
     Cathedral, or Other Religious Buildings
     Cemetery                                                     P                         X
     Community Garden                                             P                         X
     Micromobility Support Infrastructure                         P                         X
     Public Parks                                                 P                         X
     Public Use                                                   P                         X
     Solar Energy System, Accessory                               P                         X
     Wind Energy System, Accessory                                P                         X
     SPECIALTY:
     Park and Ride                                                P                         X
     ACCESSORY USES:
     Sidewalk Displays and Cafes                                  P                         X


19.22.040 – Schedule of Uses, Special Conditions.

See Chapter 19.XX: Specific Use Standards for conditions and regulations related to specific uses.

19.22.050 – Development Standards.

Development in the PR Zone shall comply with the development standards of Table 19.XX.050 and all
other applicable standards in this Title.

                   Table 19.XX.050: Development Standards for PR and OS Zones.
Standard                                                     PR                            OS
Minimum Lot Size (in square feet)                            NA                            NA
Minimum Frontage                                   Any parcel in the Parks
                                                    and Recreation Zone
                                                   shall have a minimum                    NA
                                                    frontage of 30’ on a
                                                        public street.
Minimum Lot Width (in feet)                                  NA                            NA
Maximum Building Height (in feet) A                     For lot areas of 5 acres
                                                            or greater, the
                                                           maximum is 45’.
                                                          For lot areas smaller             15
                                                            than 5 acres, the
                                                            maximum is 35’.
Minimum Floor Area Ratio                                           NA                       NA
Maximum Building Lot Coverage                                     30%                       NA



A. Height Exception for Recreational Equipment: In the PR Zone, if necessary to ensure protection of
   public health, safety, or welfare, recreation equipment heights are permitted up to eighty feet (80’).
   For example, nets around batting cages or fences at driving ranges may exceed thirty-five feet (35’)
   as necessary and as approved by the Director or Designee.

19.22.060 – Required Yards and Setbacks.

Development in the PR Zone shall comply with the yard and setback standards shown in Table 19.22.060
and all other applicable standards in this Title.

                       Table 19.22.060: Yards and Setbacks for PR and OS Zones.
 Standard                                                        PR                        OS
 Front Yard Setback (in feet)                              Minimum: 20                 Minimum: 20
                                                           Maximum: NA                 Maximum: NA
 Side Yard Setback – Interior Lots (in feet)               Minimum: 20                 Minimum: 20
                                                           Maximum: NA                 Maximum: NA
 Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots (in feet)                 Minimum: 20                 Minimum: 20
                                                           Maximum: NA                 Maximum: NA
 Rear Yad Setback (in feet)                                Minimum: 20                 Minimum: 20
                                                           Maximum: NA                 Maximum: NA
 Minimum Distance between Primary and Accessory
                                                                 10                          10
 Buildings (in feet)


19.22.070 – Height Exceptions.

Exceptions to the building heights specified in Table 19.22.050 apply, in accordance with 19.XX.XXX.

19.22.080 – Parking Requirements.

In addition to the requirements in 19.XX, the following shall apply:

A. In the PR Zone:

    1. Landscaped Strips: All parking areas for a commercial, institutional, or other public use that are
       adjacent to a public street shall have a landscaped strip of at least ten feet (10’) placed between
       the sidewalk and the parking area. This strip shall contain drought-resistant vegetation, and at
       least one native or drought-friendly tree shall be placed every fifty feet (50’).
    2. Pedestrian Access: Any parking lot with an area greater than twenty-thousand square feet
       (20,000 sq. ft.) shall provide dedicated ADA-compliant walkways, at least six feet (6’) wide, for
       pedestrians navigating from their vehicles to a building or park entrance. At a minimum,
       walkways shall be placed through the center of the parking area and in front of the building(s) to
       serve as pedestrian access to the area. Walkways shall be landscaped with trees at least every
       fifty feet (50’). Walkways shall be easily accessed from designated ADA parking stalls.

B. In the OS Zone:

    1. Size Limitation: No parking area shallA parking area may not exceed ten (10) spaces in the OS
       Zone or one tenth of an acre (1/10th acre).

    2. Surfacing: Parking areas shall utilize low-impact surfacing materials, such as dirt or crushed
       gravel. The applicant shall demonstrate proper grading and drainage to dispose of excess
       surface water accumulated within the area and shall provide for the long-term maintenance of
       the parking area.

    3. Seasonality: Parking areas shall be closed during winter months if snow removal and
       maintenance is unable to be provided within twenty-four hours (24 hr) after a major snow
       event.

19.22.090 – Landscaping and Screening Standards.

A. All landscaping and screening standards found in Chapter 19.XX shall apply in the PR Zone. In addition,
   the following fencing standards shall apply:

    1. Fencing: Fencing may be allowed in the PR Zone where desirable to establish sense of privacy,
       protect children and pets, provide a buffer from street traffic, or enhance property appearance.
       The following standards apply to fencing in the PR Zone:

        a. Height: Fences may be up to six feet (6’) tall at the property line. Fences taller than six feet
           (6’) must be set back from the property line an additional foot for each foot of fence over six
           feet (6’).

        b. Materials: Fences in the PR Zone shall be designed to enhance the visual appearance of the
           area. Chain link fencing is prohibited except where necessary to provide a perimeter or safety
           backing for recreational fields, as determined by the Director or Designee.

B. The intent of the OS Zone is to preserve critical habitats and natural spaces within the municipality.
   Any landscaping efforts shall facilitate ecosystem management for the benefit of native plant and
   animal species. The landscape and screening standards of Chapter 19.XX do not apply to this Zone.

19.22.100 – Lighting Standards.

All uses and developments in the PR Zone must comply with the following lighting standards, in addition
to any other applicable standards in this Title:

    A. Lighting shall be located and installed to minimize any adverse impact on the natural
       environment, including avoiding lighting in critical habitat areas or where it may pose traffic safety
       problems.
    B. All lighting shall be fully shielded to eliminate glare, prevent light trespass onto neighboring
       properties, and protect views of the night sky.

    C. Lights for outdoor recreation equipment and infrastructure may be permitted up to eighty feet
       (80’) in height, provided they are set back from any residential use at least fifty feet (50’). Such
       lights shall be directed in a manner that minimizes light trespass onto adjacent properties.

                                   Figure 19.22.110 – Types of Lighting.




19.22.110 – General Information.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other
municipal ordinances, including:

A. 19.XX: Specific Use Standards

B. 19.XX: Site Development Standards

C. 19.XX: Off Street Parking Requirements

D. 19.XX: Signs
                                Agricultural Zones – Staff Summary

General: In Magna, we recommend keeping the A-1 and A-20 Zones and eliminating the A-2 Zone. Only
the A-1 and A-20 Zones are currently applied in Magna. The A-20 Zone requires a minimum lot size of
twenty (20) acres and is used primarily north of Hwy 201.

Generally, the agricultural zones were cleared of ambiguity and reformatted to accommodate single-
family houses with farms, gardens, or horses. The only new regulations that have been added were the
maximum lot coverage. Agricultural lots are typically bigger and so the lot coverage reflects similar lot
coverages to single-family houses.

Uses: The uses have been updated to reflect the new definitions in 19.04. Most of the agricultural zones
do not have any commercial businesses so a lot of these uses have been removed. It will be encouraged
that properties that want to change the use to larger non-agricultural commercial use should rezone to
an appropriate zone for the use.

Uses Removed:

    •   Airport
    •   Campgrounds
    •   Cemetery
    •   Commercial Day Care
    •   Dwelling Group
    •   Golf Course
    •   Milk Processing
    •   Nursing Home
    •   Pigeons
    •   Planned Unit Development
    •   Private Educational Institution having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in
        public schools
    •   Radio and Television transmitting and relay station
    •   Sportmans Kennel (replaced with Kennel)
    •   Grain storage elevator
    •   Sugar Beet loading station
    •   Agriculture experimental station
    •   Bed and Breakfast
    •   Correctional Facilities
    •   Dog breeding (not dog kennel)
    •   Dude Ranch (replaced with agrotourism)
    •   Egg Candling
    •   Fertilizer and soil conditioner processing
    •   Fur Farm
    •   Gasohol Production
    •   Golf Course
    •   Gun Club


Magna Agricultural Zones (A-1 and A-20) Page 1 of 6
    •   Hay Chopping
    •   Livestock Feed yard
    •   Manure Spreading and Processing
    •   Milk Processing (replaced with dairy)
    •   Open Storage sales and rental of irrigation pipe
    •   Organic disposal site
    •   Public Stable
    •   Rodeo Grounds
    •   Sanitarium
    •   Slaughterhouse
    •   Soil composting manufacturing sales
    •   Stockyard
    •   Veterinary
    •   Solar evaporation pond for processing salt
    •   Aviary

Special Conditions
The special conditions previously in the chapters have been moved to the specific use conditions
chapter which will be done in the next phase of the project.

Development Standards
Most of the existing agricultural zones currently have one single-family house on them with some
accessory buildings for agricultural uses. These are typically very large lots. Development standards for
these agricultural uses are very similar to single-family residential development standards. Accessory
buildings standards are similar to accessory buildings in the single-family residential zones.

A goal of this comprehensive code update is to remove ambiguity from the code. The previous code
from the county had unnecessary detail when it came to setbacks. Generally, staff removed additional
language that may have been confusing and settled on the minimum setbacks required in the zone.




Magna Agricultural Zones (A-1 and A-20) Page 2 of 6
                                       Chapter 19.26: AGRICULTURAL ZONES
                                 DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 2nd, 2022
Chapter 19.26 Contents

  19.26.010- Purpose of Provisions. ........................................................................................................... 3
  19.26.020- Agricultural Zones. ................................................................................................................. 3
  19.26.030- Schedule of Uses, Special Conditions. ................................................................................... 3
  19.26.040- Special Conditions. ................................................................................................................. 5
  19.26.050- Lot Area, Lot Width, Lot Coverage. ....................................................................................... 5
  19.26.060- Setbacks. ................................................................................................................................ 5
  19.26.070- Building Height. ...................................................................................................................... 5
  19.26.080- Accessory Structure Development Standards. ..................................................................... 6


Sections:

19.26.010- Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the agricultural zones is to provide limited residential and agricultural opportunities in the
same zone. To this end, the agricultural zones are intended to include activities normally related to
agricultural uses and to protect the zone from the intrusion of uses inimical to the continuance of
agricultural activity.

19.26.020- Agricultural Zones.

    A. Agricultural Zone (A-1): promotes the development of residential in association with small
       agricultural uses like gardens, pastures, horses, and other animals for family food production.

    B. Agricultural Zone (A-20): promotes and preserves conditions favorable to larger agricultural uses
       with some agricultural buildings or other uses related to agricultural product processing.

19.26.030- Schedule of Uses, Special Conditions.

Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the zones
as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and exceptions
set forth in this Title.
Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination of
uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.26.030, the more restrictive provisions of this Title
shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to Conditional Use (“C”) approval and
the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review, the entire development shall be reviewed
and approved by the Conditional Use process.
Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:



Magna Agricultural Zones (A-1 and A-20) Page 3 of 6
           P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
           and approval processes as provided in this Title.
           C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
           impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
           areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
           mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use
           authority for uses with this designation.

       3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in
          Table 19.26.030 is prohibited in this zone.

                   Table 19.26.030 - Uses Allowed in Agricultural Zoning Districts.

                              Use Categories                                 A-1           A-20
      Residential:
      Accessory Buildings, Garages, Carports, and Structures subject          P              P
      to 19.XX.
      Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal subject to 19.XX                      P              P
      Dwelling, Single-Family                                                 P              P
      Dwelling, Two-Family                                                    X              P
      Planned Unit Development                                                C              C
      Commercial:
      Agrotourism                                                             X              P
      Dairy                                                                   X              P
      Farm devoted to raising (including fattening as incident to             X              P
      raising), slaughtering, dressing, and marketing on a
      commercial scale of chickens, turkey, or other fowl or poultry,
      or rabbits)
      Home Daycare/Preschool subject to Chapter 19.XX                         P              P
      Home Business subject to Chapter 19.XX                                  P              P
      Kennel                                                                  X              P
      Nursery and Greenhouse                                                  P              P
      Plant for Storage or Packing of Fruit or Vegetables Produced on         X              P
      the Premises
      Private Nonprofit Recreational Grounds and Facilities                   X              P
      Riding Academy                                                          P              P
      Worm Farming                                                            X              P
      Other:
      Agriculture                                                             P              P
      Agricultural Building subject to Accessory Building standards of        P              P
      Section 19.26.060
      Animals and Fowl for Family Food Production, Existing                   P              P
      Animal Right, New                                                       P              P
      Apiary                                                                  P              P
      Aviary                                                                  X              P


Magna Agricultural Zones (A-1 and A-20) Page 4 of 6
       Fruit and Vegetable Storage and Packing                                 X             P
       Gardening for Personal Use                                              P             P
       Household Pets                                                          P             P
       Public and Quasi-Public Use                                             P             P
       Residential Keeping of Chickens or Ducks                                P             P
       Residential Facility for Elderly Persons                                P             P
       Residential Facility for Persons with a Disability Subject to           P             P
       19.XX
       Temporary Buildings for Uses Incidental to Construction Work            P             P


19.26.040- Special Conditions.

See Chapter 19.XX: Specific Use Standards for conditions and regulations related to specific uses.

19.26.050- Lot Area, Lot Width, Lot Coverage.

Development in the A-1 and A-2 Zones shall comply with the development standards of Table 19.26.050
and all other applicable standards in this Title.

        Table 19.26.050 – Development Standards in the Agricultural Zones.
       Zone         Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Width          Maximum Lot
                                                              Coverage (Primary
                                                                   Buildings)
        A-1             10,00 Sq Ft           65 Feet                 35%
       A-20              20 Acres            200 Feet                 30%


19.26.060- Setbacks.

Development in the A-1 and A-2 Zones shall comply with the yard and setback standards shown in Table
19.26.060 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

                             Table 19.26.060: Yard and Setback Standards.
       Zone               Front Yard            Side Yard       Side Yard for Corner        Rear Yard
                                                               Lots Where Side Yard
                                                                  Faces the Street
       A-1                  30 Feet                8 Feet             20 feet                 30 Feet
       A-20                 50 Feet               20 Feet             20 Feet                 50 Feet


19.26.070- Building Height.

A. Primary Building or Structure Height. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Title, no primary
   building or structure in the agricultural zones may exceed the following height:

    1. Thirty-five feet (35’); and

    2. No structure used for residential dwelling shall contain less than one story.

B. Accessory Building Height.

Magna Agricultural Zones (A-1 and A-20) Page 5 of 6
    1. No building which is accessory to a dwelling shall exceed twenty feet (20’) in height. For each foot
       (1’) of height over fourteen feet (14’), the accessory building shall be set back from property lines
       an additional foot (1’) to allow a maximum height of twenty feet (20’).

19.26.080- Accessory Structure Development Standards.

The following yard and setback standards shall apply to accessory structures in the agricultural zones.
    The structure shall be located in the side or rear yard and be located six feet (6’) away from the
    residential dwelling. No accessory building may be located within the required front yard setback or
    between the main building and a street.
    The structure shall be located at least one foot (1’) from an interior side property line. When the
    accessory building is located in a side yard between two existing main buildings, the accessory building
    must be located at least five feet (5’) from the property line.
    The structure shall be twenty feet (20’) from a street-facing side property line. No accessory building
    may be located between the main building and a street.
    The structure shall be located at least one foot (1’) from the rear property line, except that when the
    rear yard is adjacent to the side yard of an adjacent lot, the minimum setback is ten feet (10’) from
    the adjoining side yard.
19.26.090- Lot Coverage.

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory buildings and other structures, shall cover not
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.

B. No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.

C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces shall not cover more than 50% of the yard area
   between a structure and a property line. This includes both the required setback area and any other
   yard area between the main building and the property boundary.

19.26.100 – Additional Standards.
It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other
municipal ordinances.




Magna Agricultural Zones (A-1 and A-20) Page 6 of 6
                            Single-Family Residential Zones – Staff Summary

Summary of Changes:

Schedule of Uses

Among the most important parts of the ordinance project is updating the use tables to combine uses, eliminate
obsolete uses, and define uses. The use tables now combine permitted and conditional uses and now include
administrative conditional uses. The uses defined are typically more general in nature to both shorten the list by
combining like uses and to include future like uses.

Golf Courses, Cemeteries, pigeons, animals and fowl for family food production and single-family project
developments have been eliminated from the use table.

    •       There are no parcels zoned for single family development that are large enough to create a golf course
            or cemetery.

    •       Animals and fowl for family food production allowed a property owner to have an excessive number
            of animals on relatively small properties. This has been replaced by “animal rights” as a use and an
            animal unit scheme that allows for a more appropriate number of animals and fowl.

    •       Pigeons have been eliminated as a use, but chickens, ducks and apiary have been added.

    •       Single family project developments are an old-fashioned use whereby a number of homes are placed
            on one parcel with one owner, usually a family. Eventually someone will want to sell one or more of
            these houses and the configuration of these single-family projects rarely lends itself to a clean
            subdivision of the property. It is better to create development in a well thought our manner in the
            beginning rather than try to make it work years later.

Development Standards

    •       Grouped location and massing regulations for main buildings in one section and those for accessory
            structures in another to create clarity.

    •       Created a single rear yard standard for all lots in a zone rather than different setbacks that depended
            on having a garage.

    •       Clarify and modernize accessory structure standards, eliminating the rear yard rule and the oversized
            garage rule.

    •       Modernize the ordinance to include lot and impervious surface coverage maximums and establishing
            fencing standards.

    •       Removed allowable projections into required yards from the definitions section and modified it based
            on more modern practices.

    •       Created fencing standards.

Resources Utilized

    •   Ogden Zoning Ordinance
    •   Vineyard Zoning Ordinance
    •   South Jordan Zoning Ordinance
    •   Midvale Zoning Ordinance
    •   Mapleton Zoning Ordinance


Specific to Magna

The R-1-15 and R-1-43 Zones were removed from this Chapter. Neither Zone currently applies in Magna, and with
their large minimum lot sizes and extremely low densities, they are unlikely to be desirable. The R-1-21 Zone has
been left in this Chapter as a legacy Zone because there is still one parcel in the community with this designation.
However, if those properties are re-zoned in the future, we advise removing the R-1-21 Zone from this Ordinance.
                                 Chapter 19.28: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
                                        DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 5th, 2022

Chapter 19.28 Contents
  19.28.010 - Purpose of Provisions. .........................................................................................................................3
   19.28.020 – Schedule of Permitted Uses. ..............................................................................................................3
   19.28.030 - Lot Area, Width and Maximum Density. .............................................................................................5
   19.28.040 – Primary Structure Development Standards. ......................................................................................5
   19.28.050 – Accessory Structure Development Standards. ...................................................................................7
   19.28.060 - Lot Coverage........................................................................................................................................7
   19.28.070 - Fencing Standards. ..............................................................................................................................8
   19.28.080 - Informational........................................................................................ Error! Bookmark not defined.


Sections:

19.28.010 - Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the Single-Family Residential Zones is to establish primarily single-family neighborhoods which
provide persons who reside therein a comfortable, healthy, safe and pleasant environment.

19.28.020 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.

A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the zones as
   indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and exceptions set
   forth in this Title.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination of uses
   other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.22.030, the more restrictive provisions of this Title shall
   apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other
   portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review, the entire development shall be reviewed and approved
   by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
     1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions and
        approval processes as provided in this Title.
     2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential impacts on
        the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some areas of the zone, or
        compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to mitigate the detrimental impacts of
        the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for uses with this designation.
     3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table 19.XX.030
        is prohibited in this zone.
               Table 19.28.020 - Uses Allowed in the Single-Family Residential Zones.
Use Categories                     R-1-3 R-1-4 R-1-5 R-1-6 R-1-7 R-1-8 R-1-10 R-1-21
RESIDENTIAL:
Dwelling, Single Family              P       P        P       P       P       P       P P
Dwelling, Manufactured Home          P       P        P       P       P       P       P P
Planned Unit Development               C       C      C       C       C       C        C      C
Subject to Chapter 19.18
Residential facilities for persons    P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
with a disability
                                     R-1-3   R-1-4   R-1-5   R-1-6   R-1-7   R-1-8   R-1-10 R-1-21
ACCESSORY USES:

Accessory Uses and Buildings          P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
Subject to Sections 19.28.050
Accessory Dwelling Unit,
Internal, subject to Section          X       X       X       P       P       P        P      P
19.XX.XX
Accessory Dwelling Unit,
Detached, subject to Sections         X       X       P       P       P       P        P      P
19.28.050 and 19.XX.XX
Guesthouse, the square footage
of which must be less than one
                                      X       X       X       X       X       X       X       P
thousand two hundred square
feet
Home Occupations, subject to          P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
chapter 19.XX
Home Day Care/Preschool,              P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
subject to Section 19.XX.XX
Household Pets, not including
                                      P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
kennels
Kennels, private                       X       X       X       P       P       P        P     P
                                     R-1-3   R-1-4   R-1-5   R-1-6   R-1-7   R-1-8   R-1-10 R-1-21
INSTITUTIONAL USES:
Parks/Open Space                       P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
Public Utilities, Major                C       C       C       C       C       C        C      C
Public Utilities, Minor                P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
Religious Institutions and Uses        P       P       P       P       P       P       P      P
Schools, Public                        P       P       P       P       P       P       P      P
Schools, Private/Charter               C       C       C       C       C       C       C      C
                                     R-1-3   R-1-4   R-1-5   R-1-6   R-1-7   R-1-8   R-1-10 R-1-21
OTHER USES:
Apiary                                X       X       X       X       X       X        X      P
Gardening for personal use            P       P       P       P       P       P        P      P
      Animals and Fowl for family
      food production established
                                          X        X       X       X       X       X     X        P
      prior to (The date of the
      adoption of this ordinance)
      Animal Rights, one animal unit
                                          X       X       X        X      X       X      X        P
      per 10, 000 square feet
      Bed and Breakfast Inn               X        X       X       X       X       X     X        C
      Residential Keeping of Chickens
      or Ducks subject to section         X        X       X       P      P       P      P        P
      19.XX.XX
      Child Care, Residential and         P       P       P        P      P       P      P        P
      Licensed Family
      Fences, walls and hedges
                                          P       P       P        P      P       P      P        P
      subject to Section 19.28.080
      Private, nonprofit recreational     P       P       P        P      P       P      P        P
      grounds and facilities
      Sportsmen’s Kennel (one-acre        X       X       X       X       X       X      X        C
      minimum lot area)
      Temporary Construction Office
      associate with a permitted          P       P       P        P      P       P      P        P
      development project

19.28.030 - Lot Area, Width and Maximum Density.

The minimum lot area and width requirements and maximum density are as follows:

                          Table 19.28.030 - Lot Area, Width and Yard Requirements.
 Zone      Minimum Lot Area     Minimum Lot Width                                       Density
 R-1-3     3,000 Square Feet    35 feet at a distance 20 feet from the front lot line   11.0 Units per acre
 R-1-4     4,000 Square Feet    40 feet at a distance 20 feet from the front lot line   9.0 Units per acre
 R-1-5     5,000 Square Feet    50 feet at a distance 20 feet from the front lot line   7.0 Units per acre
 R-1-6     6,000 Square Feet    60 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line   6.0 Units per acre
 R-1-7     7,000 Square Feet    65 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line   5.0 Units per acre
 R-1-8     8,000 Square Feet    65 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line   4.5 Units per acre
 R-1-10    10,000 Square Feet   80 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line   4.0 Units per acre
 R-1-21    21,7800 Square Feet 100 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line   2.0 Units per acre


A. Density for Planned Unit Developments. The allowable density for planned unit developments shall be
   determined by the Planning Commission on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the following factors:
   recommendations of county and non-county agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses;
   and the provisions of the applicable General Plan. Notwithstanding the above, the Planning Commission may
   not approve a planned unit development with density higher than the that enumerated in Table 19.28.030.

19.28.040 – Primary Structure Development Standards.
The following development standards apply to all primary residential and non-residential structures.

A. Required Yards:
    1. Dwellings: The minimum yard requirements for a Primary Residential Dwelling are as follows:

                                      Table 19.28.040A - Primary Residential Dwelling Setbacks.
                                                   Front         Side Yard,           Side Yard,
                Zone                               Yard          Interior             Corner Lot       Rear Yard
                R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5                20 Feet       5 Feet1              20 Feet          20 Feet3
                                                                 8 Feet or
              R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-8              25 Feet           11/5 split2          20 Feet          25 Feet3
              R-1-10, R-1-21                   30 Feet           10 Feet              20 Feet          30 Feet3
        1
          unless attached to a dwelling on an adjacent lot.
        2
            5 feet on one side and 11 feet on the garage or driveway side.
        3
            homes with a garage existing prior to (the adoption of this ordinance) may maintain a 15’ rear setback.
    2. The minimum yard requirements for a main building other than residential are as follows:

                             Table 19.28.040B - Non-Residential Main Building Setbacks.

                Zone                                    Front Yard        Side Yard        Rear Yard
                R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5                     20 Feet           20 Feet          20 Feet
                R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-8                     25 Feet           20 Feet          25 Feet
                R-1-10, R-1-21                          30 Feet           20 Feet          30 Feet


    3. Projections into Required Yards. The following structures may be erected on or projected into any
       required yard:

        a. Fences and walls that conform with this code.

        b. Landscape elements including trees, shrubs and other plants.

        c. Necessary appurtenances for utility services associated with minor public utilities.

        d. Planter boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty-four inches (24”) in height.

        e. Cornices, eaves, belt courses, buttresses and other similar architectural features may project into any
           yard not more than two feet (2’).

        f.    Bay windows, cantilevered floors and fireplace structures may project into any yard not more than
              two feet (2’), provided that they are not wider than eight feet (8’) wide.

        g. Porches, door stoops, awnings, fire escapes and stairways may project into an interior side yard not
           more than two-feet (2’) and a front, rear, or corner side yard not more than four-feet (4’).

        h. An attached deck may encroach up to four feet (4’) into a rear yard if it is accessed from and
           appurtenant to the ground floor of a residential structure.
        i.   Accessory structures subject to Section 19.28.050.

B. Building Height. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Title, no building or structure shall exceed
   the following height:

    1. Thirty feet (30’) on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent (15%),
       or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line drawn
       from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a box which
       encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. Said box shall extend for a distance of fifteen
       feet (15’) or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure.
       The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
       of two feet (2’).

    2. Thirty-five feet (35’) on properties other than those listed in number one of this subsection.

    3. No dwelling shall contain less than one story or more than two stories except as part of a Planned Unit
       Development, subject to Chapter 19.18 of this title.

19.28.050 – Accessory Structure Development Standards.

A. Accessory Structure Location and Setback Requirements. The location and minimum setback requirements
   for an accessory building in a single-family residential zone are as follows:

    1. Shall be located in the side or rear yard and six feet (6’) away from the dwelling. No accessory building
       may be located within the required front yard or between the main building and a street.

    2. Shall be located at least one foot (1’) from an interior side property line, measured from the nearest
       portion of the structure, including eaves and overhangs. When the accessory building is located in a side
       yard between two existing main buildings, the accessory building must be located at least five feet (5’)
       from the property line.

    3. Shall be twenty feet (20’) from a street facing side property line. No accessory building may be located
       between the main building and a street.

    4. Shall be located at least one foot (1’) from the rear property line, except that when the rear yard is
       adjacent to the side yard of an adjacent lot, the minimum setback shall be ten feet (10’) from the adjoining
       side yard.

    5. No part of any accessory structure may be placed within one foot (1’) of the property line, including eaves,
       cantilevers and other protrusions from the structure.

B. Accessory Structure Height requirements:

    1. No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling may exceed twenty feet (20’) in height. For each
       foot (1’) of height over fourteen feet (14’), accessory buildings shall be set back from the side and rear
       property lines an additional foot (1’) to allow a maximum height of twenty feet (20’).

19.28.060 - Lot Coverage.

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory buildings and other structures, shall cover more than forty
   percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the
   rear yard.

C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the yard area
   between a structure and a property line. This includes both the required setback area and any other yard area
   between the main building and the property boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one
   driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that driveway does not exceed
   twenty feet (20’) in width.

19.28.070 - Fencing Standards.

The term "fence" shall include any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, wall, hedge, or continuous growth of
shrubs or trees with the purpose of, or having the effect of, preventing passage or view across the fence line.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a fence, wall, screen, hedge, or other material serving as a fence,
may not create a sight distance hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic as determined by the municipal engineer.

    1. Front Yard/Side Yard: A fence made of materials which are sight obscuring may be built to a maximum of
       three feet (3') in any required front/side yard perimeter. A fence made of materials which are not sight
       obscuring (at least 50 percent open) may be built to a maximum of four feet (4') in any required front/side
       yard. If an existing home is located on the property, the front/side yard perimeter is measured from the
       front property line to the front edge of the existing home. The fencing may slope upward to connect with
       a higher rear yard fence. The length of a sloped fence section may not exceed a maximum of ten feet (10').

    2. Rear Yard: A fence in a rear yard may be built to a maximum of seven feet (7'). If an existing home is
       located on the property, the rear yard perimeter is measured from the front edge of the existing home to
       the rear property line.

    3. Corner Lots: A fence not more than seven feet (7') high may be constructed in the rear yard as defined in
       subsection B, "Rear Yard", of this section adjacent to a public street on a corner lot, if it does not obstruct
       clear view of intersecting streets as defined in subsection D, "Clear Sight Triangle", of this section.

    4. Clear Sight Triangle: At intersections of alleys and driveways (this includes private driveways and adjacent
       private driveways), the triangle shall be defined by drawing a line between two (2) points that are a
       minimum of ten feet (10') from the intersection along the property lines. At intersections of public streets,
       the triangle shall be defined by drawing a line between the two (2) points that are a minimum of forty
       feet (40') from the intersection along the property lines.

    5. Larger Clear Sight Triangle: Larger clear vision triangles may be required where local streets enter arterial
       streets, major collector streets, or parkways, except that "clear vision triangles" need not be maintained
       at signed or signalized intersections in the community center. "Clear vision triangles" may also be waived
       at signed or signalized intersections in neighborhood centers.

    6. Grade Differences: Where there is a difference in the grade of the properties on either side of a fence,
       wall or other similar structure, the height of the fence shall be measured from the natural grade of the
       property upon which it is located.

    7. Retaining Walls: Where a retaining wall protects a cut below or a fill above the natural grade and is located
       on the line separating lots or properties, such retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall or hedge of
       the same height that would otherwise be permitted at the location if no retaining wall existed.
   8. Double Frontage Lots: A fence or wall may be erected in the rear yard of a double frontage lot.

   9. Fire Hydrants and Mailboxes: Fire hydrants and mailboxes shall be accessible from the public streets and
      may not be enclosed behind fences. Location of the fire hydrant shall be in accordance with the uniform
      fire code.

   10. Exceptions: The provisions of this section may not apply to certain other fences including tennis court
       backstops or patio enclosures as approved by the Planning Commission, if it is determined that the fences
       do not create a hazard or violation of other sections of the city ordinances.

   11. Sidewalk Setback: If a sidewalk or paved trail exists parallel to the fence, the fence shall be setback at least
       twelve inches (12") from the back of the sidewalk. The area between the fence and sidewalk shall be
       landscaped or covered with mulch, bark, gravel or landscape rocks and include a weed barrier.

19.28.080 - Informational.

   For additional information refer to the zoning ordinance and in particular the following sections:

   (Will be completed at the end of the project when final locations of associated regulations are complete)
                           Residential Mobile Home Zone – Staff Summary

Purpose: Magna has an existing mobile home park on 8400 West and a parcel near the Pleasant Green
Cemetery that is zoned for a mobile home park. Mobile Home Parks and Subdivisions can offer an
important form of affordable housing for many residents. There are unique aspects of these uses, such as
the need for communal park upkeep, that must be addressed through zoning. This draft Chapter retains
regulations from the existing code but reformats them to be more user-friendly.

Applicability: The RMH Zone is intended for the existing mobile home park in Magna. With the possible
exception of the parcels near the cemetery, other areas in the community may not appropriate for this
designation.

Outlined Changes:

   •   Sections were re-formatted for readability and consistency with other drafted chapters.

   •   The “Purpose of Provisions” section was expanded.

   •   The following uses were added as permitted or conditional in the Zone: Community Garden,
       Public Park, Micromobility Infrastructure, and Solar and Wind Systems – Accessory.




                                              Page 1 of 5
Chapter 19.29 Contents
  19.29.010 – Purpose of Provisions............................................................................................................ 2
  19.29.020 – Scope. .................................................................................................................................... 2
  19.29.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses. ................................................................................................. 2
  19.29.040 – Development Standards and Required Yards and Setbacks. ................................................ 3
  19.29.050 – Mobile Home Parks and Subdivisions, Standards and Review. ............................................ 4
  19.29.060 – General Information. ............................................................................................................ 5



                               Chapter 19.29: Residential Mobile Home Zone
                                 DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 2nd, 2022
Sections:

19.29.010 – Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the Residential Mobile Home Zone (“RMH”) is to provide appropriate areas for the
development and preservation of mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions. The use and
development standards in this Chapter are intended to provide for housing choice and affordability while
ensuring that mobile home parks and subdivisions are harmonious with surrounding development.

19.29.020 – Scope.

The provisions of this Chapter apply to any real property located in a RMH Zone as shown on the official
zoning map. No building, structure or real property shall be used, and no building or structure shall be
hereafter erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as set forth in this Chapter.
Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this Title, this
code, or other laws.

19.29.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.

A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination
   of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.22.030, the more restrictive provisions of
   this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to Conditional Use (“C”)
   approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review, the entire development
   shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
    1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.



                                                                    Page 2 of 5
   2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
      impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
      areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to mitigate
      the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for uses
      with this designation.
   3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
      19.XX.030 is prohibited in this zone.
                        Table 19.XX.030 – Uses Allowed in the RMH Zone.
               Use Categories                                       RMH
               AGRICULTURAL:
               Agriculture                                               P
               RESIDENTIAL USES:
               Mobile Home Park or Mobile Home
                                                                         C
               Subdivision
               RETAIL AND SERVICES:
               Child Care, Home                                          P
               Home Preschool                                            P
               FOOD AND DRINK:
                        No Food and Drink Uses are Allowed in the RMH Zone.
               RECREATIONAL:
                         No Recreational Uses are Allowed in the RMH Zone.
               LODGING:
                            No Lodging Uses are Allowed in the RMH Zone.
               INDUSTRIAL:
                           No Industrial Uses are Allowed in the RMH Zone.
               INSTITUTIONAL USES:
               Community Garden                                          P
               Micromobility Support Infrastructure                      P
               Public Parks                                              P
               SPECIALTY:
               Planned Unit Development                                  C
               ACCESSORY USES:
               Home Occupation                                           P
               Recreational Areas and Facilities                         P
               Solar Energy System, Accessory                            P
               Temporary Uses, subject to 19.XX.                         P
               Wind Energy System, Accessory                             P


19.29.040 – Development Standards and Required Yards and Setbacks.

A. Lot Area: The minimum lot area for a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision shall be five (5)
   acres. There is no minimum area required per lot, provided that the required yards for each mobile
   home can be created and maintained.



                                               Page 3 of 5
B. Yards and Setbacks:

    1. Front Yard: The minimum front yard setback shall be seven feet and six inches (7’6”).

    2. Side Yard: The minimum side yard for mobile homes shall be seven feet and six inches (7’6”).
       Awnings, patio covers, etc., may not be closer than three feet (3’) from any side property lines.
       One accessory storage building, not exceeding one hundred twenty cubic feet (120 ft3), is allowed
       in one side yard and may be three feet (3’) from the property line.

        a. Exception for Corner Lots: On corner lots, there shall be a minimum seven feet and six inches
           (7’6”) of unobstructed yard space on the private street side of the lot. No parking, awnings,
           patios, storage sheds or fences may occupy that unobstructed yard space.

    3. Rear Yard: The minimum rear yard is ten feet (10’).

    4. Exceptions to Yard Requirements: Any yard adjoining a public street must be a minimum of
       twenty-five feet (25’).

C. Other Development Standards:

    1. Coverage Restrictions: In the RMH zone, the front yard, or any space within three feet (3’) of the
       side and rear property lines, may not be occupied, and shall be open and unobstructed to the sky.
       Lot coverage may not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the lot.

        a. "Occupied" means covered by a mobile home, garage, carport, cabana, awning, storage
           building, or structure of any kind.

    2. Building Height: In the RMH zone, no mobile home shall contain more than one story, or exceed
       twelve feet (12’) in height. No accessory building shall contain more than one story or exceed
       twelve feet (12’) in height. Other main buildings (clubhouses, recreation buildings, etc.) may not
       exceed twenty-five feet (25’) in height.

19.29.050 – Mobile Home Parks and Subdivisions, Standards and Review.

A. Review and Approval: A mobile home subdivision shall follow the review and approval process, as
   outlined in Kearns’ Subdivision Ordinance. Public streets shall meet the standards outlined in the
   Subdivision Ordinance. Private street standards shall be determined by conditional use review and
   approval.

B. Mobile Home Park and Subdivision Maintenance: Maintenance of all areas and improvements owned
   in common by the lot owners, such as clubhouses, common landscaped areas, recreation facilities,
   playgrounds, roads, sewer and water utilities, and electrical systems, shall be the responsibility of an
   owner's association created with articles of association and bylaws approved by the attorney.




                                               Page 4 of 5
19.29.060 – General Information.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other municipal
ordinances, including:
    A. 19.XX: Specific Use Standards
    B. 19.XX: Site Development Standards
    C. 19.XX: Off Street Parking Requirements
    D. 19.XX: Signs




                                                  Page 5 of 5
                Medium and High Density Residential Zones – Staff Summary

General: This Chapter combines the R-2, R-4 and RM Zones to create new standards for medium and high-
density residential development. The intent is to allow for some housing choice within communities while
holding development to a high quality standard.

Uses: Several incompatible uses were removed from the Medium and High Density Residential Zones.
These include:
   •   Agriculture
   •   Cemetery
   •   Dwelling group
   •   Gold course
   •   Pigeons
   •   Private educational institutions
   •   Private non-profit recreational grounds
   •   Airport
   •   Boarding house
   •   Dental clinic
   •   Fraternity house
   •   Mobile home park
   •   Medical clinic
   •   Sorority house
   •   Sportmans kennel
   •   Banks
   •   Electrolysis of hair
   •   Gymastics dance, dramatic, art studio
   •   Hospital
   •   Hotel
   •   Tanning studio




Magna Draft Medium and High Density Residential
             Chapter 19.30: MEDIUM AND HIGH-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
                                  DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 5th, 2022



Chapter 19.30 Contents
  19.30.010 - Purpose of Provisions. ........................................................................................................... 2
   19.30.020 - Establishment of Medium and High-Density Residential Zones............................................ 2
   19.30.030 - Schedule of Permitted Uses................................................................................................... 3
   19.30.040 - Development Standards. ....................................................................................................... 4
   19.30.050 – Required Yards, Setbacks, and Bulk. ..................................................................................... 4
   19.30.060 – Building Height. ..................................................................................................................... 5
   19.30.070 - Accessory Structure Development Standards. ....................... Error! Bookmark not defined.
   19.30.080 - Subdivision and PUD Standards for Medium and High-Density Residential. ........................ 6
   19.30.090 – General Information. ............................................................................................................ 6


Sections:

19.30.010 - Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the medium and high-density residential zones is to promote a mix of housing
opportunities combined with some limited commercial opportunities. It is the intent of the medium and
high-density housing zones to be located in walkable and transit-oriented areas that allow for a wide range
of amenities and businesses in close proximity.

19.30.020 - Establishment of Medium and High-Density Residential Zones.

To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of the municipality and implement housing choice and
walkability concepts included in the adopted General Plan, including the vision of the Moderate Income
Housing Opportunities Character Area, Kearns establishes the following zones:

     A. Two-Family Residential Zones (R-2): The R-2 Zones are intended to promote medium-density
        middle housing options between 1-2 units per building. Multiple buildings may be located on one
        lot; however, lots with multiple buildings are encouraged to establish a Planned Unit
        Development (PUD) as part of the development process.

     B. Four-Family Residential Zones (R-4): The R-4 Zones are intended to promote medium-density
        middle housing options between 1-4 units per building. Multiple buildings may be located on one
        lot; however, lots with multiple buildings are encouraged to establish a PUD as part of the
        development process. Medium-density housing will serve as a transition between higher-density
        commercial, residential, or mixed-used and low-density residential or single-family.



Magna Draft Medium and High Density Residential
   C. Multi-Family Residential Zone (RM): The RM Zone is intended to promote medium and high-
      density residential housing of greater than 4 units. Development projects in this zone should
      accommodate multi-modal transportation opportunities, open space, amenities for units, limited
      commercial uses, and provide buffering between high-density and low-density housing.

19.30.030 - Schedule of Permitted Uses.

   A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
      zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions,
      and exceptions set forth in this Title.
   B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
      combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.XX.030, the more
      restrictive provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject
      to Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P)
      review, the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
   C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
       1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
          and approval processes as provided in this Title.
       2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
          impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
          areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
          mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use
          authority for uses with this designation.
       3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in
          Table 19.XX.030 is prohibited in this zone.
                                    Table 19.30.030: Uses.
                     Use Categories                     R-2-6.5          R-4-8.5         RM
    Residential:
    Accessory Structures                                       P            P             P
    Dwelling, Single-Family                                    P            P             X
    Dwelling, Single-Family Attached                           P            P             P
    Dwelling, Accessory Internal                               P            P             P
    Dwelling, Accessory Detached                               X            X             P
    Dwelling, Duplex                                           P            P             P
    Dwelling, Tri-plex                                         X            P             P
    Dwelling, Four-plex                                        X            P             P
    Dwelling, Multi-Family (5 dwellings or more)               X            C             C
    Mobile Home Park                                           X            P             X
    Planned Unit Development                                   C            C             C
    Residential Facility for Persons with a disability         P            P             P
    subject to 19.XX
    Residential Facility for Elderly Persons                   P            P             P
    Commercial:



Magna Draft Medium and High Density Residential
    Bed and Breakfast                                        X             P           P
    Home Business subject to 19.XX                           P             P           P
    Home Daycare/Preschool subject to _______                P             P           P
    Daycare                                                  X             P           P
    Short-term Rentals                                       X             X           X
    Other:
    Public or Quasi-Public Use                               P             P           P
    Shared Parking                                           P             P           P
    Rail Transit Mixed-use                                   X             X           P
    Public Park and Open Space                               P             P           P
    Private Park and Recreational Grounds                    X             P           P
    Temporary Buildings Incidental to Construction           P             P           P
    Work, and Other Temporary Buildings


19.30.040 - Development Standards.

Development in the R-2, R-4, and RM Zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
19.30.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.


                              Table 19.30.040: Development Standards.
           Zone                            R-2-6.5            R-4-8.5                     RM
 Minimum Lot Area                        6,500 Sq Ft        8,500 Sq Ft              1,452 Sq Ft per
                                                                                        Dwelling
 Minimum Lot Width                         60 Feet               60 Feet                50 Feet

 Maximum Density 1                     5 Dwelling Units     15 Dwelling Units      25 Dwelling Units
                                          per Acre              per Acre               per Acre


   A. Density for Planned Unit Developments. The allowable density for planned unit developments is
      determined by the Planning Commission on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the following
      factors: recommendations of the Planning and Development Services Staff and reviewing
      agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the adopted
      General Plan. Notwithstanding the above, the Planning Commission may not approve a planned
      unit development with density higher than that which is enumerated in Table 19.30.040.
   B. Calculating Density. Density calculations are based on gross density. Gross density is defined as
      the total number of residential dwelling units divided by the gross area of the parcel in question.
19.30.050 – Required Yards, Setbacks, and Bulk.

Development in the R-2, R-4, and RM Zones shall comply with the yard, setback, and bulk standards
shown in Table 19.30.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

                             Table 19.30.050: Yard and Bulk Regulations.




Magna Draft Medium and High Density Residential
                                       Single-          Two-Family       Three/Four         Multi-plex
                                       Family            Building          Family         (Five or more
                                                                          Building          families)
                                   Minimum Yards; Residential Uses
 Minimum Front Yard                   25 Feet        25 Feet               25 Feet           25 Feet
 Minimum Side Yard                    8 Feet          8 Feet               8 Feet            10 Feet
 Minimum Side Yard, Facing a          20 Feet        20 Feet               20 feet           20 Feet
 Public Street
 Minimum Rear Yard, Without            30 Feet           30 Feet           30 Feet           30 Feet
 Garage
 Minimum Rear Yard, With               15 Feet           15 Feet           15 Feet           25 Feet
 Garage
 Distance Between Primary              16 Feet           16 Feet           16 Feet           20 Feet
 Buildings
 Maximum Lot Coverage              40%             45%            45%                          60%
                             Minimum Yards; Non-Residential Uses
 Minimum Front Yard               25 Feet        30 Feet         30 Feet                     25 Feet
 Minimum Side Yard                8 Feet          8 Feet         8 Feet                      8 Feet
 Minimum Side Yard, Facing a      20 Feet        20 Feet         20 feet                     20 Feet
 Public Street
 Minimum Rear Yard, Without       30 Feet        30 Feet         30 Feet                     30 Feet
 Garage
 Minimum Rear Yard, With          15 Feet        15 Feet           15 Feet                   15 Feet
 Garage
    A. Distance Between Buildings. On lots with more than one primary building, the minimum distance
       between primary buildings is sixteen feet (16’). It is intended that if lots with more than one
       primary building are ever subdivided, each building shall have a side yard of eight feet (8’) or the
       current standard for side yards in the underlying zone. In the event that regulations conflict for
       sides, the stricter requirement shall take precedence.

19.30.060 – Building Height.

Buildings in the R-2, R-4, and RM Zones shall comply with the height standards of Table 19.30.060 and all
other applicable standards in this Title..

                        Table 19.30.060: Building Height Regulations.
          Zone              Single-Family     Two-Family       Three/Four    Multi-plex (Five or
                                                Building     Family Building  more families)
Maximum Building Height        35 Feet          35 Feet          35 Feet          60 Feet


    A. No dwelling shall contain less than one story.
    B. Within one hundred feet (100’) of sites zoned for single-family residential, the following
       standards apply:
        1. On the portion of the site within one hundred feet (100’) of a site zoned R-1, no structure or
           portion thereof may exceed thirty-five feet (35’) in height.


Magna Draft Medium and High Density Residential
        2. On the portion of the site within one hundred feet (100’) of a site zoned R-2, R-4, RM, or
           RMH the maximum height is forty-five feet (45’).
19.30.070 - Accessory Structure Development Standards.

   A. The minimum yard requirements for an accessory building are as follows:

                    Table 19.30.070: Accessory Building Development Standards.
      Zone           R-2-6.5           R-2-8            R-2-10        R-4-8.5                  RM
Side Yard             1 Foot           1 Foot           1 Foot        1 Foot                 1 Foot
Side Yard, Facing    20 Feet          20 Feet          20 Feet        20 Feet                20 Feet
a Public Street
Rear Yard             1 Foot            1 Foot            1 Foot             1 Foot          1 Foot
Setback from the      6 Feet            6 Feet            6 Feet             6 Feet          6 Feet
Main Dwelling




   A. No building which is accessory to a one-family or two-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet
      (20’) in height. For each one foot (1’) of height over fourteen feet (14’), accessory buildings shall
      be set back from property lines an additional one foot (1’) up to the allowed maximum height of
      twenty feet (20’).

   B. No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five percent
      (25%) of the rear yard.

19.30.080 - Subdivision and PUD Standards for Medium and High-Density Residential.

Two-Family dwellings may be subdivided subject to the following standards:

   A. The minimum lot area for duplexes shall be equally distributed until the following minimum lot
      standards are met for all newly created lots.

        Zone              R-2-6.5         R-2-8           R-2-10            R-4-8.5            RM

Minimum Lot Area        3,000 Sq Ft     4,000 Sq Ft     5,000 Sq Ft        2,000 Sq Ft
                                                                                  1,452 Sq Ft per
                                                                                     Dwelling
   B. There is no minimum side yard requirement where property lines are drawn along a shared wall.

   C. The division of ground is subject to the requirements of Title 18.

   D. The subdivision plat shall specifically note that the purpose of the subdivision is to accommodate
      the division of a two-family dwelling(s).

   E.   All other subdivisions in the Medium and High-Density Residential zones are subject to all
        requirements in 19.78 and platted via a PUD plat.

19.30.090 – General Information.




Magna Draft Medium and High Density Residential
It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other municipal
ordinances, including:
    A. 19.04 Definitions
    B. 19.78 Planned Unit Developments
    C. 19.75 Geologic Hazards Ordinance
    D. 19.48: Off-Street Parking Requirements
    E. 19.50: Landscaping and Screening
    F. 19.51: Specific Use Standards
    G. 19.52: Signs




Magna Draft Medium and High Density Residential
                                 Commercial Zones – Staff Summary

Schedule of Uses

There are four commercial zones in the current code, C-1, C-2, C-3 and C-V. These zones each had their
own chapter. This model ordinance combines the four commercial zones into one chapter. The C-V Zone
was intended primarily for tourism-support areas near the Canyons and Great Salt Lake. This Zone has
been removed from the draft for Kearns.

There is only one parcel in all of the MSD Service Areas Zoned C-1. The model ordinance takes
advantage of this by re-creating the C-1 as a modern commercial zone where buildings are located
nearer the street to create a sense of scale and place, openings or at least the impression of doors and
windows are placed on the street side of the building, and parking is located in the rear of the building.
It is anticipated that most smaller scale commercial development will occur in the C-1 zone.

C-2 is the predominant commercial zone within the town, township and county. The C-2 is also
modernized but becomes more of a “shopping center commercial” zone. Larger commercial projects will
use the C-2 in most cases.

The C-3 zone is located almost exclusively along Magna Main, with only one parcel in Kearns and two
others near Copperton. Magna has adopted a mixed-use zone tailored to Magna Main and it is
anticipated that future development will use this new zone and that all of these parcels will be rezoned
to Mixed Use. The C-3 zone was written with warehousing and wholesale businesses in mind. This niche
is now filled by the revised M-1, light industrial zone and the C-3 zone has become superfluous. The
intent is that C-3 will be phased out and new development will not occur in the current zone. Most of
the uses in the use table are prohibited in the C-3 zone.

Among the most important parts of the ordinance project is updating the use tables to combine uses,
eliminate obsolete uses, and define uses. The uses defined are typically more general in nature to both
shorten the list of uses by combining like uses and to include future like uses. These uses have been
grouped together with similar uses for the ease of the user.

The use tables now combine permitted and conditional uses into one table. Larger projects such as
PUD’s and large commercial projects will require Planning Commission input and approval, but most
other uses will not. As a result, the Planning Commission will be able to concentrate on the big picture
land use management items rather than the small details.

Most of the existing use list could be characterized as retail uses, service uses or personal services. All of
these uses now fall under either “retail and service commercial” or “personal care services” unless they
were of a type that the council was more wary of. Check cashing, pawn shops, reiki and retail tobacco
specialty businesses are not included in the general “retail and service commercial” and are typically
either prohibited or allowed as conditional uses.
Development Standards

   •   There are no minimum lot size, frontage or width standards in any of the commercial zones.
       Because the intent is that the C-2 zone be used only for larger commercial projects, it has a 3-
       acre project area requirement.

   •   The front setback is also a build to line, meaning that in most cases 50% of the building must be
       built at the setback line. This front setback is landscaped, and parking is located to the side or
       rear of the building. This allows the buildings to frame the street, which emphasizes the
       buildings rather than the parking and gives the streetscape a more human scale. Exceptions for
       grocery and other larger commercial buildings and drive through windows are built into the
       ordinance.

   •   Outdoor dining and pedestrian access are encouraged by requiring walkways and site
       furnishings.

   •   Architectural standards have been created to improve the built environment. These standards
       primarily apply to new development. These standards should lead to the creation of buildings
       that are in line with buildings in the better developments in the region but should not be a
       significant burden on developers. Most construction in the last 5 years would need only
       moderate improvements to meet the proposed standards.

   •   Entrances and windows will be required on the street facing side of new buildings. This does not
       preclude other entrances.

   •   Open space and landscaping standards will have a separate chapter. The elements found in this
       chapter are intended to be an enhancement from the general regulations that apply to
       industrial and other zoning districts.

   •   Parking lot lighting standards are included to require lighting that does not trespass on
       neighboring property, is efficient and relatively uniform so that dark areas are minimized.

   •   Residential buffering and fencing requirements are created.

Resources Utilized

   •   Ogden Zoning Ordinance
   •   Vineyard Zoning Ordinance
   •   South Jordan Zoning Ordinance
   •   Midvale Zoning Ordinance
   •   Mapleton Zoning Ordinance
   •   Spanish Fork Zoning Ordinance
                                             Chapter 19.32: Commercial Zones
                                    DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 5th, 2022
Chapter 19.32 Contents

19.32.010 – Purpose of Provisions. .....................................................................................................3
19.32.020 – Establishment of Commercial Zones. ................................................................................3
19.32.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses. .................................................................................................... 4
19.32.040 – Lot and Area Standards. ........................................................................................................... 7
19.32.050 – Site Standards........................................................................................................................... 7
19.32.060 – Architectural Standards. .......................................................................................................... 9
19.32.070 – Off-Street Parking Standards. ................................................................................................ 12
19.32.080 - Open Space and Landscaping. ................................................................................................ 12
19.32.090 – Lighting. .................................................................................................................................. 13
19.32.100 – Fences Hedges and Walls. ...................................................................................................... 15
19.32.110 – General Information. ............................................................................................................. 16


Sections:

19.32.010 – Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the commercial zones is to provide places in the municipality for a wide range of
commercial and retail trades and uses, offices, business and professional services, and other uses that
contribute to the economic stability of the community and wellbeing of its employees and residents. The
zones are intended to provide employment opportunities and expand the municipal tax base, while also
encouraging sustainable development and providing an attractive transition between residential and
non-residential uses.

19.32.020 – Establishment of Commercial Zones.

To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of our community and implement commercial node
concepts included in the adopted General Plan, the following zones are established:

A. Commercial Zone – General Commercial (C-1): The C-1 Zone is intended to provide a wide range of
   commercial uses designed to serve neighborhood, community, and regional needs. The commercial
   use may be freestanding or integrated in a center. Development is oriented to the street to
   encourage a pedestrian relationship and buildings are placed to allow interconnected walkways and
   shared site accesses for increased convenience, accessibility, and enhanced safety for pedestrians.
   Development includes elements and façades at the pedestrian level and achieves a sense of human
   scale and creates visual interest at eye-level.

B. Commercial Zone – Shopping Center Commercial (C-2): The C-2 Zone is intended to provide retail
   uses, service-oriented businesses, offices, and restaurants in an integrated center. Each center
    shares common architecture, access, parking, signage, and landscape design. Each centers typically
    includes three (3) or more acres and provides regional or community level destination shopping
    which incorporates a design that enhances pedestrian orientation within the center.

C. Commercial Zone – Warehousing and Wholesale Commercial (C-3): The C-3 Zone is intended to
   provide a legacy zone, originally intended to provide areas for warehousing and wholesale
   businesses and general commercial. The warehouse and wholesale business is now developed under
   the M-1 zoning classification and new commercial uses are developed as appropriate under the C-1
   or C-2 zones.

D. Commercial Zone – Visitor and Tourism (C-V): The C-V Zone is intended to provide areas in
   appropriate locations where commercial centers provide for the needs of tourists and travelers be
   established, maintained, and protected. The regulations of this zone encourage the provision of
   transient housing facilities, restaurants, service stations, and other commercial activities providing
   for the convenience, welfare, or entertainment of the tourist or traveler.

19.32.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
    zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
    exceptions set forth in this Title.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
    combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.XX.030, the more restrictive
    provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to
    Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review,
    the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
    1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
        and approval processes as provided in this Title.
    2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
        impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
        areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to
        mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority
        for uses with this designation.
    3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
        19.XX.030 is prohibited in this zone.

                     Table 19.32.030 - Uses Allowed in Commercial Zones.
Use Categories
RETAIL AND SERVICE:                                                          C-1     C-2      C-3     C-V
Car and Light Truck Wash                                                      P       P        X       P
Child Care Center                                                             P       P        X       P
Check Cashing                                                                 P       P        X       X
Commercial Plant Nursery                                                      P       P        X       P
Financial Institution                                                         P       P        X       P
Kennel, Commercial                                                            P       P        X       P
Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help and/or Drop Off                         P       P        X       P
Liquor and/or Wine Store and Package Agency                            P     P     X     P
Mobile Store                                                           P     P     X     P
Pawn Shop                                                              P     P     X     X
Personal Care Services                                                 P     P     X     P
Personal Instruction Services                                          P     P     X     P
Reception Hall, Reception Center                                       P     P     X     P
Reiki                                                                  P     P     X     X
Retail and Service Commercial                                          P     P     X     P
Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site    P     P     X     P
Retail Tobacco Specialty Business                                      P     P     X     X
Self-Service Fuel Station                                              P     P     X     P
Sexually Oriented Business or Activity                                 X     X     P     X
Shopping Center                                                        C     C     X     C
Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Minor                                    P     P     X     P
Vehicle Rental                                                         P     P     X     P
Vehicle Sales and Service                                              P     P     X     X
Vehicle Sales, Small Dealership                                        P     P     X     P

FOOD AND DRINK:                                                       C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Bars and Clubs                                                          P    P     X      P
Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant             P    P     X      P
Food truck / mobile restaurant / food cart                              P    P     X      P
Restaurant, Fast Food                                                   P    P     X      P
Restaurant, Sit-Down with or Without Alcohol                            P    P     X      P

LODGING:                                                              C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Bed and Breakfast Inn                                                   P    P     X      P
Hotel/Motel                                                             P    P     X      P

OFFICE:                                                               C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Office, General                                                         P    P     X      P
Office, Intensive                                                       P    P     X      P
Office, Medical                                                         P    P     X      P

RECREATIONAL:                                                         C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Athletic Clubs                                                          P    P     X      P
Commercial Recreation                                                   P    P     X      P
Recreation Facility, Commercial                                         P    P     X      P
Recreation Facility, Public                                             P    P     P      P
Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)                                     P    P     X      P
RESIDENTIAL USES:                                                     C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Planned Unit Development, subject to Chapter 19.18                      C    C     X      C

INSTITUTIONAL USES:                                                   C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Animal Control or Rescue Facility                                       P     P    X      P
Animal Hospital or Clinic                                               P     P    X      P
Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities               P     P    X      P
Cemetery                                                               CU    CU    P      X
Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious
buildings                                                              P     P     P     P
Hospital                                                               P     P     X     P
Libraries                                                              P     P     P     P
Parks/Open Space                                                       P     P     P     P
Public Uses                                                            P     P     P     P
Public Utilities, Major                                                C     C     P     X
Public Utilities, Minor                                                P     P     P     P
Schools, Public                                                        P     P     P     P
Schools, Private/Charter                                               C     C     X     X

SPECIALTY:                                                            C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Crematorium                                                             P    P     X      X
Laboratory, Medical or Dental                                           P    P     X      X
Laboratory, Research and Development                                    P    P     X      X
Mortuary or Funeral Home                                                P    P     X      X
Nursing Home, Convalescent Care Center                                  P    P     X      X
Rehabilitation/Treatment Facilities                                     P    P     X      X
Self-Service Storage Facilities, Enclosed                               P    P     X      X

ACCESSORY USES:                                                       C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Accessory Outside Storage                                               C    C     X      C
Home Business, subject to chapter 19.40                                 P    P     X      P
Household Pets, not including kennels                                   P    P     X      P
Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities appurtenant to a permitted use       P    P     X      P
Outdoor dining appurtenant to a permitted restaurant use                P    P     X      P
Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes appurtenant to a permitted use     P    P     X      P
Temporary buildings subject to 19.42                                    P    P     X      P

NONCONFORMING USES:                                                   C-1   C-2   C-3   C-V
Pre-Existing Lot                                                        P    P     P      P
Pre-Existing Structure                                                  P    P     P      P
Pre-Existing Use                                                        P    P     P      P
19.32.040 – Lot and Area Standards.
Development in the C-1, C-2, C-3 and C-V Zones shall comply with the lot and project area standards in
Table 19.32.040 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

                             Table 19.32.040 - Required Yards and Setbacks.
Lot and Area Standards              C-1                C-2              C-3               C-V
Minimum Project Area                None               3 acres          N/A               None
Minimum Lot Size                    There is no minimum lot size required in the Commercial Zones.
Minimum Lot Width and               No minimum lot width is required for lots in Commercial Zones. Lots
Frontage                            not fronting on a street must be accessible to the public via a
                                    recorded easement or right-of-way.


19.32.050 – Site Standards.
The following site standards shall apply in the C-1, C-2, C-3 and C-V Zones:

A. Setbacks. A setback standard frames the street spatially and encourages a consistent building wall
   along street edges. A parking setback enhances pedestrian safety and comfort and reduces the
   visual prominence of automobiles as viewed from streets, building entrances, and sidewalks. See
   Table 19.32.050 for setback requirements.

                                  Table 19.32.050 – Site Standards.
Setback Standards                 C-1                C-2                 C-3             C-V
Front Yard Setback, Major Street 18' landscaped 30' landscaped 30' landscaped 20' landscaped
                                  setback from       setback from        setback from    setback from
                                  back of            public right of     public right of public right of
                                  sidewalk           way                 way             way
Front Yard Setback, Minor Street 10' landscaped 15' landscaped 15' landscaped 10' landscaped
or Drive                          setback from       setback from        setback from    setback from
                                  back of curb       back of curb        back of curb    back of curb
Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots Same as the          Same as the         Same as the     Same as the
                                  front yard         front yard          front yard      front yard
                                  setback            setback             setback         setback
Build to Line                     The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least  N/A
                                  fifty percent (50%) of the adjacent façade must be
                                  built within three feet (3') of the build-to-line. A
                                  side yard, corner lot setback is also a build-to-line.
Side Yard Setback – Interior Lots No setback required when sharing a common wall. 8’ setback to
                                  property line or 16’ between buildings where building pads are used.
                                  20’ landscaped buffer required to separate residential uses from
                                  commercial uses.
Rear Yard Setback                 10’ setback to property line or 20’ between buildings where building
                                  pads are used. 20’ Landscaped buffer required to separate residential
                                  uses from commercial uses.
B. Location and Orientation of Buildings. Structures frame streets spatially by being constructed at the
   build-to-line. Buildings shall be sited to face the street with parking lots on the side or rear. At street
   or drive intersections the buildings shall be located directly on the corner with parking in the rear. At
   least fifty percent (50%) of the adjacent façade shall be built within three feet (3’) of the build-to-
   line.

C. Build-to-Line Exceptions.

    1. Any big box development may have parking in front, provided other commercial pad sites are
       proposed along the frontage that would comply with the build-to-line requirements. The other
       commercial pad sites shall create at least forty percent (40%) building street frontage along the
       width of the project area when combined with public plazas or courtyards.

    2. Drive-through windows shall be located at the side or rear of buildings. A single drive aisle may
       be located between the building and the street so long as its width does not exceed twelve feet
       (12’), any pedestrian crossings across it are clearly delineated with special paving treatments,
       parking spaces do not occur off of it, and a low wall, railing with landscaping, or a continuous
       hedge at least three feet (3’) high exists between stacked cars and the sidewalk. If a drive-
       through is located between the building and the street, the front setback/build-to-line shall be
       twelve feet (12’) farther from the back of sidewalk or public right of way.

D. Sidewalks or Trails. Any building front entryway shall have a continuous sidewalk to the street
   sidewalk. A sidewalk at least six feet (6’) wide is required along the entire front of the lot or project
   area. A six foot (6’) wide park strip shall be installed between the street and the sidewalk as a
   pedestrian buffer. No fencing that is parallel to any sidewalk may be within two feet (2’) of the edge
   of the sidewalk.

E. Outdoor Dining. If outdoor dining is allowed, the patio or dining area may encroach on up to ten feet
   (10’) of the required landscaped setback.

F. Utilities. Any overhead utility shall be placed underground unless the applicable utility company
   determines it is infeasible.

G. Screening. Any garbage dumpster shall be enclosed by a masonry wall or architectural design with
   materials that are consistent with the building. The enclosure gate shall be metal and accessible to
   service vehicles. The enclosure wall and gate shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12”) higher than
   the trash receptacle bin. Service areas, mechanical equipment, and meters shall be completely
   screened from the street.

H. Site Furnishings. The developer or builder is responsible for providing site furnishings as required in
   this document. All site furnishings shall be specified on the plans.

    1. Benches. Each project shall provide one (1) outdoor bench per small building (buildings 20,000
       square feet or smaller) and two (2) outdoor benches for larger buildings (greater than 20,000
       square feet). Benches are encouraged in places where people congregate and at pedestrian
       intersections and nodes. Benches shall be durable and permanently installed on a hardscape
       surface (concrete, pavers, etc.).
    2. Bike Rack. Bike racks shall be provided and installed at a minimum of three (3) bike stalls per
       fifty (50) vehicle parking stalls within each development (minimum of 3 bike rack stalls). Bike
       racks should be located near the entrance to the building and visible from the street or drive.
       Bike racks shall be durable and permanently installed and maintained over a hardscape
       surface.

    3. Trash and Recycle Receptacles. At least one (1) trash receptacle and one (1) recycling receptacle
       shall be provided at a minimum of one (1) at each public entrance to commercial buildings.

19.32.060 – Architectural Standards.
All new development shall present an attractive, coordinated streetscape, incorporate architectural and
site design elements appropriate to a pedestrian scale and provide for the safety and convenience of
pedestrians. All new development shall comply with the following architectural standards:

A. General Design Standards: The following building design requirements shall apply in the C-1, C-2,
   and C-3 Zones:

    1. Walls. No more than three (3) materials may be used for primary wall surfaces. Exterior finishes
       shall be of traditional, time- and weather-tested techniques. Retaining and screening walls shall
       be of materials complementary to the building’s materials. Buildings shall use a cohesive palette
       of colors which complement nearby buildings. Without limiting the use of color, large areas of
       wall shall be subdued in color and not reflective. Intense colors should be used as accent only.

    2. Building Heights. Buildings should provide a sense of street enclosure for pedestrians in more
       urban environments. New commercial buildings adjacent to existing neighborhoods shall step-
       down in height to help minimize the visual impact to residential areas. See Table 19.32.060A for
       requirements.

    3. Transparency. Where applicable, the intent of transparency standards is to promote economic
       activity by creating active street walls and visual interest for pedestrians at the ground-level.
       They also serve to promote personal and property safety by introducing more “eyes on the
       street” or natural surveillance of the public right-of-way and building interiors. See Table
       19.32.060A for requirements.

                       Table 19.32.060A - Commercial Development Standards.
Standard             C-1                   C-2                  C-3                   C-V
Building Height      Minimum: No           Minimum: No          Minimum: No           Minimum: No
                     primary building      primary building     primary building      primary building
                     within this district within this district within this district   within this district
                     shall be erected      shall be erected     shall be erected      shall be erected
                     to a height less      to a height less     to a height less      to a height less
                     than fifteen feet     than fifteen feet    than fifteen feet     than fifteen feet
                     (15’) above grade. (15’) above grade. (15’) above grade.         (15’) above grade.
                                           Maximum: 60'         Maximum: 45'          Maximum: 30'
                     Maximum: 45'
Step-down Height     Within one hundred feet (100’) of sites zoned for single         N/A
Adjacent to          family residential, the following standards shall apply:
Residential Areas.   a. On the portion of the site within one hundred feet
                         (100’) of a site zoned R-1, the maximum height shall be
                         thirty-five feet (35’).
                     b. On the portion of the site within one hundred feet
                         (100’) of a site zoned R-2, R-4, RM, or RMH the
                         maximum height shall be forty-five feet (45’).
Transparency         Ground Floor           Ground Floor         Ground Floor       Ground Floor
                     (frontage) 30%         (frontage) 30%       (frontage) 30%     (frontage) 30%
                     Ground Floor           Upper Floors         Ground Floor
                     (exposed sides)        (frontage) 20%       (exposed sides)
                     30%                                         30%
                     Upper Floors                                Upper Floors
                     (frontage) 20%                              (frontage) 20%


    4. Roofs. All the roofs and dormer roofs of a building shall be constructed of the same material.
       Slopes of roofs shall be of equal pitch if a gable or hip roof is employed. All metal roofs must be
       of a subdued color. Painted roof shingles are prohibited.

        a. Flat roofs on stand-alone buildings are allowed when variation to the roof line is provided
           through the use of parapets, towers, step-backs, or accessory structures.

        b. Large building roofs shall have parapets and enclosures concealing flat roofs and rooftop
           equipment from public view. Parapet and enclosure materials shall match the building in
           quality and detail.

        c. Pitched roofs have a sloped or pitched roof. The slope is measured with the vertical rise
           divided by the horizontal span or run.

            1. The roof may not be sloped less than a 4:12 (rise: run) or more than 16:12.

            2. Slopes less than 4:12 are permitted to occur on second story or higher roofs.

            3. Hipped, gabled, and combination of hips and gables with or without dormers are
               permitted.

            4. Gambrel, butterfly (inverted gable roof), and mansard roofs are not permitted.

            5. A gabled end or perpendicular ridge line shall occur at least every one-hundred feet
               (100’) of roof when the ridge line runs parallel to the front lot line.

B. Exterior Structure Standards: All exterior walls of all structures shall be constructed in compliance
   with the following:

    1. Materials. All buildings shall use one or more of the following durable materials as significant
       finish: architectural precast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry units, brick
       cladding, natural and cast stone, architectural metals, and glazing. Architectural site-cast
       concrete may be allowed if designed, articulated, and colored for a finished appearance on all
       buildings. At least fifty percent (50%) of all buildings visible from a major street shall be
       composed of brick, stone, architecturally treated CMU, architectural precast concrete,
       architectural metals, and/or glazing.
   2. Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS)/Stucco. The design and application of EIFS or
      synthetic stucco are expected to be of a high enough quality to allow for crisp detailing and
      substantial relief. The use of EIFS on ground floor walls shall be limited to the surface area three
      (3) or more feet above finished grade. The wall area from finished grade to where the use of
      EIFS begins shall be clad by a hard, durable material such as brick, stone, architectural precast
      concrete, or architecturally treated concrete masonry units.

   3. Detail and Finish. Building façades that face the street but do not have pedestrian entries shall
      be composed of high-quality materials such as brick or stone and shall provide variety and
      interest in the façade through the introduction of such elements as pilasters, recessed or
      protruding bays, changes in materials and/or colors, building lighting elements, display windows
      with products or product graphics, transparent windows or clerestories, and well-designed signs
      and graphics.

   4. Surface Variation. Continuous building wall surfaces shall be relieved with significant variations
      of wall planes or overhangs that create shadow areas and add visual interest. Variations should
      result from significant dimensional changes in plane, color, or detail as accomplished by such
      devices as protruding bays, recessed entries, upper-level step-backs, arcades, offsets in the
      general plane of the façade, changes in materials or color, bay windows, vestibules, porches,
      balconies, exterior shading devices, nonretractable canopies or awnings, projecting cornices, or
      eaves.

   5. Vertical Separation and Human Scale. Buildings in excess of two (2) stories in height shall exhibit
      architectural detailing that establishes a vertical separation between lower and upper stories.
      This may be accomplished by a mid-façade cornice or trim, a change in material, style or color, a
      façade step-back or roof pitch with dormer windows, or other methods. Buildings in excess of
      two (2) stories shall also exhibit architecture design that incorporates the human scale, which is
      specific architecture features below 10 feet (10’).

   6. Façade Features. All large retail building façades visible from public streets shall include
      architectural treatments that add detail, character, and reduce the appearance of massive blank
      walls. Techniques such as color and material changes, expression of structure, shifts in plane,
      offsets and projections, belt courses, reveals, pilasters, windows, doors, arcades, canopies, and
      other similar elements may achieve this standard. Opaque storefront security closures (rolling
      doors, etc.) are not allowed.

C. Entrances. The intent of entrance standards is to provide direct and comfortable access to
   businesses for pedestrians. Entrances on public streets are particularly important to promote
   pedestrian traffic and activities on the sidewalks. The following standards apply to the entrances of
   all structures:

   1. Street front entrances shall be developed on all new buildings. An unobstructed sidewalk
      connection from the door location must be provided to connect to the public sidewalk. Entry
      doors must be located on the front façade or be placed within three feet (3’) of the front façade.

   2. Each primary public entry shall be architecturally emphasized so that pedestrians can easily find
      it.
    3. Weather protection features such as awnings, canopies, doors inset by at least three feet (3’), or
       arcades shall be provided at all customer entrances.

D. Corner Buildings. Special attention shall be given to corner buildings that are highly visible, that may
   serve as landmarks, and provide a sense of enclosure at intersections. Special attention can be
   achieved by architecture, landscape, and public place.

19.32.070 – Off-Street Parking Standards.

In addition to the parking standards specified in Chapter 19.48, “Off Street Parking Standards”, the
following parking standards shall apply:

A. Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a structure or the existing use of land is changed to
   another use or another occupancy, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required by
   this Title, except that the Planning Commission may reduce this requirement where a variance is
   requested and justified pursuant to this Title and Utah Code.

B. Surface parking areas, except for approved street parking, may not be located between a building
   and a public right-of-way on lots or parcels adjacent to a public right-of-way. This requirement shall
   only apply to one side of a lot or parcel that is adjacent to a public right-of-way on multiple sides.
   Surface parking for a big box development, such as a grocery store, that meets the standards for a
   build-to-line exception as described in 19.32.050.C, is allowed parking between the building and the
   right of way if the pad sites each comply with this part.

C. Surface parking areas, except for approved street parking, located within thirty feet (30') of a public
   right-of-way shall be screened by grading, landscaping, walls/fences, or a combination of these, to a
   height of three feet (3') above the surface of the parking area.

D. All commercial development should be designed to allow for cross-access to adjacent properties to
   encourage shared parking and shared access points on public or private streets, unless otherwise
   specified. A minimum distance of one hundred feet (100’) should be required between a cross-
   access way and an entrance. UDOT standards may supersede this requirement in areas of UDOT
   jurisdiction. The Director may waive this requirement when the Director determines that cross-
   access is impractical based on topography, the presence of natural features, or vehicular safety
   factors, provided that appropriate bicycle and pedestrian connections are provided between
   adjacent developments or uses.

E. The Director or Designee may approve an exception to the requirements of this subsection if he or
   she determines that any of the requirements are not reasonably possible based on the unique
   characteristics of the site.

19.32.080 - Open Space and Landscaping.

In addition to the parking standards specified in Chapter 19.50, “Landscaping and Screening”, the
following parking standards apply:

A. Physical Connections. Each lot shall have a system of pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that
   provide connections between the building entrances, neighboring building entrances, sidewalks,
   parking areas, open space, and public trails.
B. Minimum Landscaped Area. Thirteen percent (13%) of the area of each commercial site shall be
   developed as landscaped setbacks, courtyards, plazas, open space, or walkways.

C. Landscaped Setback from Edge of a Street or Drive. The entirety of the required setback between a
   building or parking lot and a street or drive shall consist of landscaping, sidewalks, or a combination
   thereof. Courtyard or plaza areas shall be deemed to be a part of the front setback of the building.

D. Prohibitions. Maintenance buildings, trash collection and recycling areas, storage and service areas,
   mechanical equipment, and off-street loading areas are not permitted in the front setback of any
   building and shall be located behind the main building structure, or completely screened from public
   view.

E. Building Foundation Landscaping. The ground adjacent to the building foundation shall be
   landscaped if it is visible from public vantage points.

F. Residential Buffer. A landscaped buffer is required to separate residential uses from commercial and
   industrial uses.

    a. Landscaped Buffer Area. The landscape buffer area must be a minimum of thirty feet wide to
       provide adequate screening, buffering, and separation of these uses. The landscape treatment
       should use a combination of distance and low-level screening to separate the uses to soften the
       visual impact of the commercial or industrial use. The thirty-foot (30’) buffer area may be shared
       between adjoining properties, upon adequate proof of reciprocal easements to preserve and
       maintain the buffer area. The landscaped buffer area shall include a minimum of one tree for
       every two hundred fifty square feet (250 sq. ft).

    b. Fully Sight-Obscuring Fence. The Planning Commission shall require complete visual separation
       from residential uses if it determines that complete screening is necessary to protect abutting
       uses, and landscaping is not practical. Such fence must be a minimum of six feet (6’) high (up to
       eight feet (8’) if warranted and approved by the Planning Commission) and completely sight-
       obscuring. Fences may be of wood, metal, bricks, masonry, or other permanent materials.

19.32.090 – Lighting.

Except for ordinary repairs and maintenance of lighting approved and installed after (The adoption of
this ordinance), all new development must comply with the following outdoor lighting standards:

A. Light Source. Light sources shall be at least as efficient as LED and no greater than four thousand
   kelvins (4000K) in correlated color temperature (CCT). Light levels shall be designed such that light
   trespass measured at the property line does not exceed 0.01 foot-candles. Light fixtures shall use a
   cutoff luminaire that is fully or partially shielded with no light distributed above the horizontal plane
   of the luminaire or into nearby residential structures. In no case may the total lumens emitted for a
   single site exceed one hundred thousand (100,000) lumens per acre.

B. Parking Lot Lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed and constructed to comply with the
   following standards:

    1. Pole Height/Design.
       a. Luminaire mounting height is measured from the parking lot or driveway surface and may
           range from ten feet (10’) to thirty feet (30’), based on review of site plan, proposed uses,
           surrounding uses, parking area size, building mass, topography of site, and impacts on
           adjacent properties.

       b. Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark brown, or another neutral color approved by the
           Director or Designee.

       c. All attempts shall be made to place the base of light poles within landscape areas.

       d. Light poles in parking areas may not exceed thirty feet (30’) in height. Poles exceeding twenty
           feet (20’) in height are appropriate only for parking areas exceeding two hundred (200) stalls
           and not within seventy-five feet (75’) of a residential zone.

C. Other Outdoor Lighting Standards.

   1. Wall-mounted lighting fixtures may not be located above eighteen feet (18’) in height unless
      being used as building accent lighting. Fixture styles and finishes shall complement the building
      exterior.

   2. Lighting located along pedestrian pathways or in areas primarily dedicated to human activity
      shall be bollard style lighting or down-directed lighting not to exceed twelve feet (12’) in height.
      Pedestrian lighting shall be coordinated through each project and shall complement adjacent
      projects to the greatest extent practical.

   3. In order to avoid light pollution, backlit awnings, up-light spotlights, and floodlights are
      prohibited.

   4. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the city’s approved streetlight list or installed to
      match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.

   5. Lighting for outdoor athletic facilities may be mounted on a roof or wall at a height above the
      typical eighteen-foot (18’) maximum, provided it is demonstrated by the applicant. through
      submittal of appropriate documentation and light studies, that the facility cannot otherwise be
      properly lighted. This lighting shall comply with the following requirements:

       a.    Light fixtures and necessary supports may not extend more than four feet (4’) above the
            roof line;

       b. Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields to ensure no light trespass off the site;

       c.    Light fixtures shall include appropriate shields and louvers to minimize, to the greatest
            extent possible, any point source light pollution;

       d.   Light fixtures and supports shall be painted to blend with the color scheme of the structure
            to which they are mounted;

       e.   Light fixtures shall be dimmable to address any possible unforeseen light impacts once they
            are constructed and operable; and
        f.    The Planning Commission shall review the hours of light usage and shall approve an
             appropriate usage schedule depending on the specific situation and impacts on the
             surrounding area.

D. Upgrading Preexisting Lighting. An applicant shall bring preexisting lighting into compliance with this
   code upon application with the business license department for a change in ownership, new
   business in a stand-alone structure or a multi-tenant structure in which the new business utilizes
   more than fifty percent (50%) of the building square footage on the site, in conjunction with an
   application for a building permit for any alteration, remodel or expansion of any structure on the
   site, or in conjunction with changes to the approved site plan.

E. Lighting Plan Submission Requirements. A lighting plan is required for all developments and shall
   contain the following:

        1. Plans indicating the location on the premises and the type of illumination devices, fixtures,
           lamps, supports, reflectors, installation and electrical details;
        2. Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, and other devices
           that may include manufacturer catalog cuts and drawings, including a section where
           required;
        3. Photometric data, such as that furnished by manufacturers, or similar showing the angle of
           the cutoff or light emission; and
        4. A point-by-point light plan to determine the adequacy of the lighting over the site.
19.32.100 – Fences Hedges and Walls.

The following standards apply to new development of fences, hedges, and walls:

A. Required Setbacks. A fence, hedge, wall, column, pier, post, or any similar structure or any
   combination of such structures is permitted in the required setback of a zone if it meets the
   following conditions:

    1. No fence, hedge, or wall extends beyond or across a property line without a recorded
       agreement with the abutting property owner;

    2. Only one fence or wall is allowed per property line. Double fences, walls or combination thereof
       are prohibited; and

    3. No barbed wire or other sharp, pointed, or electrically charged fence may be erected or
       maintained, except a temporary fence on a construction site to protect the property during the
       period of construction may be topped with barbed wire where the barbed wire is not less than
       eight feet (8’) above the ground and does not extend more than two feet (2’) above the
       temporary fence.

B. Height. No fence or wall may exceed seven feet (7’) in height, four feet (4’) in height from the front
   of the primary structure forward, or three feet (3’) in the sight distance triangle, measured as
   follows:
    1. In a required yard abutting a street, the total effective height above the finished grade
       measured on the side nearest the street;

    2. In any other required yard, the total effective height above the finished grade measured on the
       side nearest the abutting property;

    3. On a property line, measured from the finished grade of either side when the abutting property
       owners are in agreement; and

    4. A temporary fence on a construction site may be as high as required to protect the property
       during the period of construction.

C. Athletic Facilities. Fencing around athletic facilities, including, without limitation, tennis courts, may
   be fourteen feet (14’) in height so long as all portions above six feet (6’) are constructed with at least
   fifty percent nonopaque materials.

19.32.110 – General Information.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other applicable standards of Title 19 and all
other municipal ordinances.
                           Manufacturing Zoning Districts – Staff Summary

Purposes:

    1. Further distinguish between the M-1 and M-2 Zones.
    2. Tailor the M-1 Zone to support flex industrial uses.
    3. Increase development standards associated with the M-1 and M-2 Districts to ensure
       compatible, high-quality development.

Applicability:

The M-1 Zone is intended to be applied within the fabric of communities, where industrial flex spaces (at
a smaller scale) are desired. The M-2 Zone is meant for the outskirts of developed areas, where more
intensive industrial uses (such as resource extraction and processing) are desired and feasible.

Resources Utilized:

    •   Portland Zoning Ordinance
    •   Vineyard Zoning Ordinance
    •   South Jordan Zoning Ordinance
    •   Salt Lake City Zoning Ordinance
    •   Conversations with Kearns PC and Council regarding Warehouse District

Changes to Note:

    •   The M-1 Zone is renamed from ‘Manufacturing - Light’ to ‘Manufacturing - Flex’ as a way to
        repurpose this zone for modern needs.
    •   The use table furthers distinctions between the M-1 and M-2 Zones. The M-2 Zone allows for
        heavier industrial uses. The M-1 Zone incorporates more amenities for employees and focuses
        on uses that could be integrated into the fabric of an existing community.
    •   Development standards are added, including height limitations: 60 feet for the M-1 and 80 feet
        for the M-2. Such requirements were previously lacking from the Manufacturing Zones.
    •   Parking and Loading Standards are added to provide more specificity than what previously
        existed in the ordinance. This helps ensure development is adaptable to changing uses over
        time.
    •   New Landscaping and Screening standards are added to ensure views are protected and
        transitions between industrial zones and other uses are as seamless as possible.




                                                                   DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 1
                                       Chapter 19.34: Manufacturing Zones
                                DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 2nd, 2022
Chapter 19.34 Contents

  19.34.010 – Purpose of Provisions............................................................................................................ 2
  19.34.020 – Establishment of Manufacturing Zones. ............................................................................... 2
  19.34.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses. ................................................................................................. 2
  19.34.040 – Development Standards. ...................................................................................................... 5
  19.34.050 – Required Yards and Setbacks. ............................................................................................... 6
  19.34.060 – Height Exceptions. ................................................................................................................ 7
  19.34.070 – Parking and Loading Requirements. ..................................................................................... 7
  19.34.080 – Landscaping and Screening Standards. ................................................................................. 8
  19.34.090 – Additional Standards. ............................................................................................................ 8


Sections:

19.34.010 – Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the manufacturing zones is to provide places in the municipality for industrial,
warehousing, wholesale, and other uses that contribute to the economic stability of the community and
wellbeing of its employees and residents. The zones intend to provide employment opportunities and
expand the municipal tax base while also encouraging sustainable development and providing an
attractive transition between residential and non-residential uses.

19.34.020 – Establishment of Manufacturing Zones.

To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of our community and implement industrial and
employment center concepts included in the adopted General Plan, Kearns establishes the following
zones:

    A. Manufacturing Zone – Flex (M-1): The M-1 Zone is intended to provide a flexible mix of industrial
       uses, including light manufacturing, warehousing, wholesale, and accessory uses that contribute
       to employee wellbeing and quality development.

    B. Manufacturing Zone – Heavy (M-2): The M-2 Zone is reserved for areas of the municipality that
       support more intense industrial uses, such as distribution centers, resource processing, and
       energy production. Development standards are intended to minimize adverse impacts of these
       uses and protect the surrounding environment.

19.34.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.

A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title.

                                                                                              DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 2
B. Special Conditions. Any special conditions related to a specific use are in Chapter 19.XX Specific Use
   Standards.
C. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination
   of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.XX.030, the more restrictive provisions of
   this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to Conditional Use (“C”)
   approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P) review, the entire development
   shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use process.
D. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
    1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.
    2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
       impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
       areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to mitigate
       the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for uses
       with this designation.
    3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
       19.34.030 is prohibited in this zone.
                             Table 19.34.030: Table of Uses for M-1 and M-2 Zones.
                               Use Categories                                      M-1            M-2
 RESIDENTIAL USES:
 Rail-Transit Mixed Use                                                             P               X
 RETAIL AND SERVICE:
 Animal Control or Rescue Facility                                                  P               X
 Animal Hospital or Clinic with or without Outdoor Boarding Facilities              P               X
 Child Care Center                                                                  P               X
 Commercial Plant Nursery                                                           X               P
 Contractor’s Office                                                                X               P
 Vehicle and Equipment Repair – All Types                                           P               P
 FOOD AND DRINK:
                                           See Accessory Uses.
 RECREATIONAL:
 Open Space                                                                         P               P
                                         See also Accessory Uses.
 LODGING:


                                                                     DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 3
                   No Lodging Uses are allowed in the Manufacturing Zoning Districts.
OFFICE:
Office – Intensive or Medical                                                    P         X
INDUSTRIAL:
Agricultural Products Processing                                                 X         P
Assembly Use                                                                     P         P
Breweries and Distilleries, Industrial                                           P         P
Freight Service                                                                  X         C
Industrial Flex Space                                                            P         X
Machine Shop                                                                     P         P
Manufacturing, Heavy                                                             X         C
Manufacturing, Light                                                             P         P
Meat or Poultry Processing Facility                                              X         P
Recycling Processing Facility                                                    X         P
Resource Recycling Collection Point                                              P         P
Self-Service Storage Facilities, Enclosed or Outdoor                             P         X
Storage Yard                                                                     X         P
Underground Record Storage Vaults                                                X         C
Vertical Indoor Agriculture                                                      P         P
Vehicle Assembly                                                                 X         P
Warehouse and Distribution Facilities                                            X         P
INSTITUTIONAL:
Micromobility Support Infrastructure                                             P         P
Public Service Training Facility                                                 P         P
Public Use                                                                       P         P
Public Utility, Major                                                            C         P
Public Utility, Minor                                                            P         P
Water Treatment Facility                                                         X         P
Wireless Telecommunication Site, Facility, or Equipment Shelter                  X         P


                                                                  DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 4
 SPECIALTY:
 Crematorium                                                                         P            P
 Hospital                                                                            C            X
 Laboratory, Medical or Dental                                                       P            X
 Laboratory, Research and Development                                                P            X
 Park-and-Ride                                                                       P            P
 Solar Energy System, Commercial                                                     X            C
 Wind Energy System, Commercial                                                      X            C
 ACCESSORY USES:
 Accessory Uses, including Employee Amenities and Accessory Outdoor                  P            P
 Storage


19.34.040 – Development Standards.

A. General Design Standards: The following building design requirements apply in the M-1 and M-2
   Zones:

   1. View Protection. The proportion and massing of buildings shall be designed to minimize the
      obstruction of all views. No vertical design elements, dominant rooflines, or other features which
      exaggerate building height shall be used.

   2. Building Massing. In order to maximize the integration of buildings and features with the natural
      environment and surrounding neighborhoods, all developments in the M-1 and M-2 Zones shall
      incorporate techniques for reducing the apparent size and bulk of buildings and structures. The
      following methods are required:

       a. A consistent level of detail and finish on all sides of a building shall be provided.

       b. Continuous building wall surfaces shall be relieved with variations of wall planes or overhangs
          that create shadow areas and add visual interest.

B. Development in the M-1 or M-2 Zones shall comply with the development standards of Table
   19.34.040 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

                      Table 19.34.040: M-1 and M-2 Zone Development Standards.
 Standard                                 M-1                          M-2
 Minimum Lot Size (in square feet) C      12,000                       25,000
                               C
 Minimum Lot Width (in feet)              75                           100
 Building Height (in feet) D              Minimum: No primary          Minimum: No primary
                                          building within this zone    building within this zone shall
                                          shall be erected to a height be erected to a height less



                                                                     DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 5
                                            less than fifteen feet (15’)     than fifteen feet (15’) above
                                            above grade.                     grade.

                                            Maximum: No building             Maximum: 80
                                            within this zone may exceed
                                            sixty feet (60’) above grade.
 Minimum Floor Area Ratio                   0.5:1                            NA
 Maximum Building Lot Coverage              80%                              80%


C. Existing Lots: Lots legally existing as of [adoption date of this ordinance], shall be considered legal
   conforming lots.

D. Step-down Height Adjacent to Residential Areas: Within one hundred feet (100’) of sites zoned
   residential, the following standards shall apply:

    1. On the portion of the site within one hundred feet (100’) of a site zoned R-1, including any sub-
       zone of R-1, no structure or any portion thereof may exceed thirty-five feet (35’) in height.

    2. On the portion of the site within one hundred feet (100’) of a site zoned R-2, R-4, RM, or RMH,
       no structure or any portion thereof may exceed forty-five feet (45’) in height.

                   Figure 19.34.040: Stepdown Heights Adjacent to Residential Areas.




19.34.050 – Required Yards and Setbacks.

Development in the M-1 or M-2 Zones shall comply with the yard and setback standards shown in Table
19.34.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.

                 Table 19.34.050: Required Yards and Setbacks for M-1 and M-2 Zones.
 Standard                                             M-1                    M-2


                                                                       DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 6
 Front Yard Setback (in feet)                            Minimum: 20                Minimum: 25
                                                         Maximum: NA                Maximum: NA
 Side Yard Setback – Interior Lots (in feet)             Minimum: 20                Minimum: 20
                                                         Maximum: NA                Maximum: NA
 Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots (in feet)               Minimum: 20                Minimum: 25
                                                         Maximum: NA                Maximum: NA
 Rear Yard Setback (in feet)                             Minimum: 25                Minimum: 35
                                                         Maximum: NA                Maximum: NA
 Minimum Distance between Primary and Accessory
                                                         10                         10
 Buildings (in feet)


19.34.060 – Height Exceptions.

Exceptions to the building heights specified in Table 19.34.040 apply, in accordance with 19.XX.XXX.

19.34.070 – Parking and Loading Requirements.

In addition to the standards specified in 19.XX.XX, the following parking and loading standards shall apply
in the M-1 and M-2 Zones:

    A. Loading spaces and berths shall be at least thirty-five feet (35’) in length, ten feet (10’) in width,
       and fourteen feet (14’) in height, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space and required parking
       space;

    B. Loading spaces and berths may occupy all or any part of any required yard space, except front
       and corner side yards, and may not be located closer than fifty feet (50’) to any property zoned
       residential unless screened by a masonry wall not less than ten feet (10’) in height. And loading
       spaces or berths located in side yards may not be visible from a public street;

    C. Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular
       access to a street or alley – subject to approval by the Director or Designee - in a manner which
       will eliminate or minimize conflicts with traffic movement and prevent loading vehicles from
       traversing residential zones. Maneuvering and backing space to the loading dock shall be
       accommodated on site whenever possible;

    D. All loading areas, aisles, and access drives shall be paved so as to provide a durable, dust-proof
       surface and shall be so graded and drained so as to dispose of surface and storm water without
       damage to private or public properties, streets, or alleys;

    E. If the loading or parking area is illuminated, lighting shall be deflected down and/or away from
       abutting residential sites so as to not cause nuisance, glare, or light pollution;

    F. Off-street loading facilities shall be located on the same site with the use for which the loading
       spaces and berths are required; and

    G. Space allocated to any off-street loading berth may not be used to satisfy the space requirements
       for any off-street parking facility. The minimum number of loading berths required in the M-1 and
       M-2 Zones is shown in Table 19.34.070:


                                                                      DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 7
            Table 19.34.070: Minimum Number of Loading Berths Required by Usable Floor Area.
                                                         Minimum Number of Berths Required
                 Usable Floor Area (in square feet)
                                                                M-1                  M-2
         5,000 to 40,000                                                              1
                                                                 1
         40,001 to 100,000                                                            2
         Each Additional 100,000                               Add 1                Add 1


19.34.080 – Landscaping and Screening Standards.

In addition to the standards in 19.XX.XX, the following landscaping and screening standards apply:

A. Mechanical Equipment and Refuse Containers: Air conditioning units, generators, waste and recycling
   containers, and other auxiliary mechanical and building equipment shall be placed on the site so as to
   minimize noise, appearance, and odors, particularly for adjacent properties and public rights-of-way.

    1. Screening: Mechanical equipment and refuse containers shall be screened from public rights-of-
       way and adjacent properties by screening walls, landscaping, and other screening treatments.

    2. Color: All building-mounted mechanical or communications equipment shall be a color that blends
       with the color and design details of the primary building.

    3. Material: High-quality screening materials shall be used to enhance site design and minimize
       impacts on adjacent properties. Chain-link fencing is prohibited in front yards and side yards of
       corner-lots and does not count towards meeting the screening requirements of this section.
       Where feasible, landscaping is preferred to other screening methods.

19.34.090 – Additional Standards.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other municipal
ordinances.

A. 19.40: Specific Use Standards

B. 19.46: Site Development Standards

C. 19.48: Off Street Parking Requirements

D. 19.50: Landscaping and Screening

E. 19.51: Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations

F. 19.52: Signs




                                                                        DRAFT M-1 and M-2 Zones Magna| 8
                          Magna Mixed-Use Zoning Districts – Staff Summary

Purposes:

    1. Establish a new chapter that provides for mixed-use development at a compact, walkable scale.
    2. Promote successful business by integrating a customer base (residential uses) close by.
    3. Create new gathering places within existing communities.

Applicability:

    •   The DH Zone is intended only for areas in and around the Magna Historic District.
    •   The NMU Zone is for small-scale mixed use at a variety of locations. The NMU could be
        integrated on corners surrounding residential neighborhoods in order to expand services and
        access to goods.
    •   The CMU Zone is the highest-intensity mixed-use zoning district and should be implemented
        along transit routes. Preferably, this zone would be reserved for Major Transit Investment
        Corridors (places with 15min or less transit frequency). This zone would be applied primarily
        along the non-historical portions of Magna Main Street

Resources Utilized:

    •   Portland Zoning Ordinance
    •   Vineyard Zoning Ordinance
    •   Magna Historic District Existing Building Fabric
    •   Missing Middle Housing – Type Dimensions
    •   Principles of Urban Retail – Robert Gibbs
    •   Albany, OR Zoning Ordinance
    •   Holladay Zoning Ordinance

Changes to Note:

This Chapter expands upon the existing historic district mixed use zone, creating other opportunities for
mixed use projects.




                                                                      Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |1
                              CHAPTER 19.36: MIXED-USE ZONES
                        DRAFT for Review Purposes Only – August 2nd, 2022
Sections:

19.36.010 – Purpose of Provisions.

The mixed-use zones are intended for areas within the community where a combination of residential,
commercial, civic, and other uses is desirable to strengthen local tax base and employment opportunities,
provide diverse housing types, create gathering places, and connect businesses with nearby customers.
The mixed-use zones are distinguished by the uses they allow as well as their development standards,
which are intended to promote a high-quality, compact, walkable, and interesting built environment.

19.36.020 – Establishment of Mixed-Use Zoning Districts.

In order to anticipate and respond to the changing needs of our community and implement mixed-use
and livability concepts included in the adopted General Plan, the following zoning districts are established:

    A. Downtown Historic District (DH): The DH Zone is intended to promote a dense mixture of uses
       consistent with the District’s historic role in Magna. Emphasis is placed on entertainment,
       theaters, restaurants, retail, and specialty shops. Medium-density residential and office infill on
       upper floors is encouraged, as is the continued presence of the library, museum, senior center,
       and supporting uses. The purpose of this Zone is to implement the vision of the Magna General
       Plan (2021) and further the municipality’s Main Street Program.

    B. Neighborhood Mixed Use District (NMU): The NMU Zone is intended to create a residential district
       that allows a small-scale, horizontal or vertical mixture of neighborhood commercial uses to serve
       the daily needs of area residents. This Zone is intended only for small-scale, low-impact uses, to
       promote a better mixture of uses close to home and within a walkable environment.

    C. Corridor Mixed Use District (CMU): The CMU Zone is intended to promote compact and walkable
       development, diverse housing options, and proximity to shopping and services along transit
       corridors, especially where infill development is desirable. The CMU allows for greater intensity
       of uses and building footprints without disrupting surrounding neighborhoods.

19.36.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.
    A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
       zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions,
       and exceptions set forth in this Title.
    B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
       combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.XX.030, the more
       restrictive provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject
       to Conditional Use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to Permitted Use (“P)
       review, the entire development shall be reviewed and approved by the Conditional Use
       process.
    C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
           1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional
                restrictions and approval processes as provided in this Title.

                                                                        Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |2
       2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or
          potential impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses,
          incompatibility in some areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or
          conditions are required to mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning
          Commission is the land use authority for uses with this designation.
       3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified
          in Table 19.36.030 is prohibited in this zone.

                                      Table 19.36.030. Uses.
                               Use Categories                              DH     NMU      CMU
RESIDENTIAL USES:
Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached or Internal                               X        P       X
Dwelling, Multiple Family                                                   P        X       P
Dwelling, Single Family                                                     X        P       X
Dwelling, Single Family Attached                                            X        P       P
Dwelling, Three- and Four-Family                                            P        P       P
Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex)                                               P        P       X
Educational Facility with Residential Accommodation                         X        X       P
RETAIL AND SERVICE:
Bank, Credit Union, or Other Financial Institution                          P        P       P
Car and Light Truck Wash                                                    X        X       P

Child or Adult Care Facility                                                P        P       P
Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help                                       P        P       P
Laundry Cleaning Drop-Off                                                   P        P       P
Liquor and/or Wine Store                                                    X        X       P
Mobile Store                                                                P        X       P
Personal Care Services                                                      P        P       P
Personal Instruction Services                                               P        P       P
Post Office                                                                 P        P       P
Reception Hall, Reception Center                                            P        X       P
Retail Sales                                                                P        P       P
Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site         C        C       C
Self-Service Gas Station, with or without Convenience Store                 X        X       P
Shopping Center                                                             X        X      CU


                                                                 Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |3
FOOD AND DRINK:
Bars and Clubs                                                            P       X      P
Breweries and Distilleries, with or without restaurant                    P       X      P
Food Truck, Mobile Restaurant, Food Cart                                  P       X      P
Restaurant, Fast Food                                                     P       P      P
Restaurant, Sit Down with or without Alcohol                              P       P      P
LODGING:
Bed and Breakfast                                                         P       P      P
Hotel/Motel                                                               P       X      P
OFFICE:
Offices – General, Professional, and Trade Services                       P       P      P
RECREATIONAL:
Commercial Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor                           P       X      P
Outdoor Recreation, Small Scale                                           X       X      P
Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)                                       P       X      P
INDUSTRIAL USES:
Light or Heavy Industry                                                   X       X      X
INSTITUTIONAL USES:
Animal Hospital or Clinic                                                 C       X      C
Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious          P       P      P
buildings
Community Garden                                                          P       P      P
Educational Facility                                                      P       P      P
Public or Quasi-Public Use                                                P       P      P
Public Park                                                               P       P      P
SPECIALTY:
Medical, Urgent Care, and Dental Clinic                                   P       X      P
Mortuary or Funeral Home                                                  P       X      P
Park and Ride                                                             X       X      P
Parking Lot (not associated with other use)                               X       X      X
ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory Buildings, Garages, Carports, and Structures subject to         P       P      P
19.XX.

                                                                Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |4
    Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities E                                        X       P         P
    Home Business, subject to 19.XX.                                            P       P         P
    Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes                                        C       C         C
    NONCONFORMING USES:
    Pre-Existing Lot                                                            P       P         P


19.36.040 – Development Standards.

   A. Any development in the DH, NMU, or CMU Zones shall comply with the development standards
      shown in Table 19.36.040 and any other applicable standards in this Title.
   B. Buildings in any Mixed-Use Zone shall be oriented so as to be front-facing on the public street.
   C. Exception for Historic District Contributing Buildings. A development standard in Table 19.36.050
      may be waived by the Director or Designee only if the Director or Designee finds that complying
      with that standard would result in a building that currently contributes to Magna’s National
      Historic District no longer contributing to the District designation.
19.36.050 – Development Standards.

   D. Buildings in any Mixed-Use Zoning District shall be oriented so as to be front-facing on the public
      street.
   E. Exception for Historic District Contributing Buildings. A development standard in Table 19.36.050
      may be waived by the Planning Director or Designee only if the Director or Designee finds that
      complying with that standard would result in a building that currently contributes to Magna’s
      National Historic District no longer contributing to the District designation.

                Table 19.36.050 – Mixed Use Zoning District Development Standards.
                   Standard                         DH              NMU                     CMU
  Maximum Building Size, in square feet (sq. ft.)
  Non-Grocery                                     25,000            5,000
  Grocery-Anchored                                  NA              5,000                   NA
  Height Limitations, in feet (ft)
  Minimum                                           25               25                     20
            45
  Maximum                                              50                35                 60
  Ground Floor Height Minimum for
                                                       12                12                 12
  Commercial / Mixed Use Buildings Only
  Floor Area Ratio
  Maximum FAR                                          NA               1.5:1               NA
  Minimum FAR                                         1.5:1              1:1                2:1
  Minimum Transparency Requirements 1
  First Floor / Ground Story                          70%               50%                 70%
  Additional Floors                                   35%               25%                 35%
  Entries


                                                                     Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |5
Maximum distance between ground floor
                                                 35; Entrances shall also be present at each corner.
entries on the primary façade, in feet (ft). 2
Primary Façade Entries, Articulation.                                                 Recessed a
                                                   Recessed a
                                                                                   minimum of 4’
                                                 minimum of 4’
                                                                                    depth and 7’
                                                  depth and 5’
                                                                       NA               width. A
                                                 width. A canopy
                                                                                      permanent
                                                  or awning is
                                                                                     overhang is
                                                    required.
                                                                                       required.
Non-primary Façade Entries                       1 entry minimum at the ground floor is required on
                                                  each non-primary façade, excluding those with a
                                                               shared common wall.
Articulation
Horizontal Articulation                         Structural columns or variation in façade
                                           (depth/change in material) shall be articulated at
                                         the primary façade for the full height of the building
                                           to the cornice (or to the full height of the building
                                              to the first stepback); minimum 50’ spacing.
Vertical Articulation                       Cornice/Frieze Banding is required between the
                                           second and third floors on buildings with three or
                                                               more stories.
Roof                                       Pitched roofs                          Pitched roofs
                                          are prohibited.                        are prohibited.
                                                                   NA
                                          Cornice at roof                        Cornice at roof
                                         line is required.                      line is required.
Usable Outdoor Space, minimum requirement per unit in square feet (sq. ft) 3
Single-Family Attached or Detached              150                150                  NA
Two-, Three-, or Four-Family                     75                100                  60
Multi-Family                                     40                 45                  40


     1. Transparency: Transparency means the use of materials that allow for persons from the street
        to see into the active uses of the building. Areas covered by menus, murals, or other signage
        that prevents visibility into the active use do not count toward the required transparency,
        unless the municipality has authorized a temporary advertisement or other festive
        decoration.

     2. Entries on Corner Lots: Buildings on corner lots shall be oriented to the corner that faces on
        two public streets. Corner entries are required. Corner entries shall be angled toward the
        intersection of the two public streets in order to emphasize the corner.

     3. Usable Outdoor Space: Means outdoor space provided for the enjoyment of the tenant. The
        required outdoor space may be provided through private outdoor balconies or patios
        attached to the unit or may be combined in an outdoor community space shared by all
        residents / units.

             a. Balconies: If balconies are provided, they shall be recessed or incorporated into the
                horizontal setback.

                                                                    Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |6
4. Stepbacks: A sixteen-foot (16’) stepback shall be required for any height above forty feet (40’).
   See Figure 19.36.050 A for reference.

                              Figure 19.36.050 A: Stepback Illustration.




5. Step-down Height Adjacent to Residential Areas: Within forty feet (40’) of sites zoned
   residential, the following standards shall apply. Stepped-down height is not required in the
   CMU Zone:

        a. On the portion of the site within forty feet (40’) of a site zoned R-1, the maximum
           height shall be thirty-five feet (35’).

        b. On the portion of the site within forty feet (40’) of a site zoned R-2, R-4, RM, or RMH
           the maximum height shall be forty-five feet (45’).




                                                               Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |7
                                  Figure 19.36.050 B: Step-down Heights Illustrated




19.36.060 – Required Yards and Setbacks.

   A. Purpose: The purpose of the standards in this section is to create and maintain street frontages
      that are attractive, promote a walkable environment, and create sense of safety and comfort
      through appropriate scale.

   B. The minimum yard requirements for buildings within the Mixed-Use Zones are presented in Table
      19.36.060.

   C. Exception for Historic District Contributing Buildings. A lot width, yard, or setback standard in
      Table 19.36.060 may be waived by the Director or Designee only if the Director or Designee finds
      that complying with that standard would result in a building that currently contributes to a
      National Historic District Designation or National Historic Landmark no longer contributing to the
      District Designation or Landmark.

   D. Exception for Setbacks for Common Walls. The side setback is zero feet (0’) for any building which
      shares a side common wall.

                   Table 19.36.060 – Lot Width, Yard, and Setback Requirements.
                                                 DH                NMU                  CMU
    Minimum Lot Frontage Along
                                                 18                 25                   20
    Public Street
    Minimum Setbacks, in feet (ft.)
     Front Yard                                   0                 10                   0
     Side Yard, Interior                          0                 10                   10
     Side Yard, Corner Lot                        0                 10                   0
     Rear Yard                                   10                 10                   10


                                                                    Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |8
     Maximum Setbacks, in feet (ft.)
      Front Yard                                       5                    20                  10
      Side Yard, Interior                              10                   10                  10
      Side Yard, Corner Lot                            5                    10                  10
      Rear Yard                                        20                   20                  30
     Minimum Distance Between Main
     and Accessory Buildings, in feet (ft)             10                    6                  10



19.36.070 – Height Exceptions.

Exceptions to the building heights specified in Table 19.XX.050 apply, in accordance with 19.76.190.

19.36.080 – Off Street Parking Standards.

All provisions of Chapter 19.XX shall apply to development in any of the Mixed-Use Zones. For
developments that combine multiple uses, parking requirements shall be calculated for each specific use
according to the criteria in 19.XX. The Director or Designee may authorize shared parking for combined
uses if those uses are found to operate at distinct hours of the day or night.

19.36.090 – Additional Standards.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other municipal
ordinances.

    A. 19.40: Specific Use Standards

    B. 19.46: Site Development Standards

    C. 19.48: Off Street Parking Requirements

    D. 19.50: Landscaping and Screening

    E. 19.51: Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations

    F. 19.52: Signs




                                                                          Draft Magna Mixed Use Districts |9
DATE           TUESDAY                                 AUGUST                            16, 2022

             THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
TUESDAY, AUGUST 16, 2022, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 9,
2022, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. AT THE WEBSTER CENTER AT 8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN
STREET (2700 SOUTH), MAGNA, UT 84044.

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:             ERIC BARNEY
                                     AUDREY PIERCE
                                     STEVE PROKOPIS
                                     TRISH HULL
                                     DAN PEAY, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:                PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Peay, Chair, presided.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                       Special Workshop

Magna Metro Township Title 18 & 19

              Paul Ashton stated Magna Metro Township inherited Salt Lake County’s
ordinances and codes in 2017. The codes are not always up to date or applicable to the metro
township. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) is reviewing and updating titles
18 – 19 and attorneys with Smith Hartvigsen are reviewing and updating titles 1-17. Around
December the updated codes will be presented to the Magna Metro Township Planning
Commission for its recommendations and to hold a public hearing. The Council will then review
the recommendations and move towards adoption.

               Brian Tucker, Planning Manager, MSD, reviewed the Title 19 Zoning draft with
chapters that the planners feel the Council will need the most time to review.

               The Council reviewed the following chapters in Title 19 Zoning:

   -   Chapter 19.04 Definitions
   -   Chapter 19.22 Parks and Open Space Zones
   -   Chapter 19.26 Agricultural Zones
   -   Chapter 19.28 Single-Family Residential Zones
   -   Chapter 19.29 Residential Mobile Home Park Zone
   -   Chapter 19.30 Medium and High Density Residential Zones
   -   Chapter 19.32 Commercial Zone
   -   Chapter 19.34 Manufacturing Zones
   -   Chapter 19.36 Mixed-Use zone


                                                1
DATE         TUESDAY                            AUGUST                        16, 2022

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.

                                       SHERRIE SWENSEN
                                       METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


                                       By ________________________________
                                          Deputy Clerk




_______________________________________
CHAIR, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                          2
