                                   MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                    MEETING AGENDA
                                     September 23, 2025
                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a meeting for
presentation, discussion, and possible action at 6:00 PM on the 23rd day of September 2025 at the
Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any of
the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

Anticipated meeting duration: 75 Minutes

6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
       1. CALL TO ORDER
       2. Determine Quorum
       3. Pledge of Allegiance

        4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
           Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
   this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
   Persons signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
   Comment” form. Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give their
   name for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to
   be both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help govern public
   meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during public comment.
   However, Magna City staff will be responsible for responding directly to citizens who request a
   response. Should an item on tonight's agenda generate a question you would like answered, there is a
   QR code at the front entrance. Please scan the QR code and send your question directly to city staff.
   The City Council will not interrupt the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once
   the formal meeting has commenced. Comments should be limited to not more than three (3)
   minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Governing Body.

        5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
           A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)
           B. Pleasant Green Cemetery – Sharon Nicholes (5 minutes)
           C. Financial Reports – Dave Sanderson (5 minutes)

        6. CONSENT AGENDA
           A. Approve Council Meeting Minutes (5 minutes)
               • September 9, 2025

        7. PRESENTATION ITEMS

1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
             A. Introduction of new General Manager/CEO of Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling
                District (WFWRD) – Pam Roberts (5 minutes)
             B. Ordinance 2025-O-15 Amending Chapter 11.44, Penalties, Parties and Procedure on
                Arrest – Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager (5 minutes)

        8. COUNCIL BUSINESS
           A. Formation of a Traffic and Safety Committee – David Brickey, City Manager and Dan
              Torres, Economic Development Manager (5 minutes)
           B. Resolution R2025-10, A Resolution of the Magna City Council Approving and
              Authorizing Delegation of Authority to Further Reduce Parking Violation Penalties in
              Limited Circumstances – Dan Torres, Economic Development Manager (5 minutes)
           C. Lumen Franchise Agreement – Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel (5 minutes)

        9. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (15 minutes)
           A. Current Financial Report Review – Dave Brickey, City Manager
           B. Updates on Webster Center Upgrade – David Brickey, City Manager
           C. DR Horton Notice of Default – David Brickey, City Manager

        10. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

        11. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH
            CODE §52-4-205
            A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health
                of an individual.
            B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
            C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
            D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
            E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

       12. ADJOURN

    ZOOM WEBINAR: Magna City Council Meeting
    **PLEASE NOTE…this is a NEW link for the Zoom Webinar, links to previous meetings will not
    work, you must use the unique link below**
    When: September 23, 2025, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)
    https://us06web.zoom.us/j/82700980342?pwd=ke1FdIbsa6Jffz1Cgeo10ayJDHsFEU.1
    Webinar ID: 827 0098 0342
    Webinar Passcode: 436140
    Successful sign-in to a Zoom account is required to access this webinar, one can be created for free at
    any time on the Zoom website or mobile/desktop app.

    Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, in
    support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the meeting. To request
    assistance, please call (385) 377-9466 – TTY 711.
    A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below: Magna City
    website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at https://www.utah.gov/pmn/.
    Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may participate electronically. Pursuant to
    Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute.

    POSTED: September 22, 2025

2 | P ag e                            M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
1                         Magna City Traffic and Safety Committee
2                                          Bylaws
3

 4   1. Name and Purpose
 5
 6          1.1 The name of this body shall be the Magna City Traffic and Safety Committee
 7              (“Committee”).
 8          1.2 The purpose of the Committee is to advise the Magna City Council on
 9              matters related to transportation safety, traffic calming, pedestrian and
10              cyclist safety, and related community concerns.
11          1.3 The Committee serves in an advisory capacity only and does not hold
12              regulatory or enforcement powers.
13
14   2. Powers and Duties
15        1. The Committee may when directed by the Council or upon recommendation
16           of City Staff:
17               i. Review and recommend traffic safety improvements to the City
18                   Council and appropriate departments.
19              ii. Recommend education and awareness programs for traffic and
20                   pedestrian safety.
21             iii. Review citizen concerns and requests related to traffic and safety.
22             iv.   Consult with law enforcement, transportation engineers, and other
23                   stakeholders as needed.
24              v.   Assist in the development and prioritization of transportation-related
25                   capital improvements.
26
27   3. Membership and Terms
28      3.1 The Committee shall consist of ﬁve (5) voting members, appointed by the Mayor
29          with the advice and consent of the City Council.
30      3.2 Each member shall reside in Magna City.
31      3.3 Members shall serve staggered terms of four (4) years to ensure continuity. Initial
32          appointments shall be:
33             i. The Mayor shall appoint one member from the City Council who shall
34                 serve as the Chair of the Committee
35            ii. The Mayor shall appoint one member shall from the Planning
36                 Commission
37           iii. One (1) member appointed for four (4) years

                                                                                    Page 1 of 4
1            iv.  Two (2) members appointed for two (2) years
2             v.  Thereafter, all terms shall be four (4) years
3       3.4 Members may be serve for a maximum of two consecutive terms.
4       3.5 Vacancies shall be ﬁlled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original
5           appointments.
6       3.6 Committee members shall serve without compensation.

7

 8   4. Officers
 9      4.1 The Committee shall annually elect a Vice Chairperson from among its
10          members at the ﬁrst meeting of the calendar year.
11      4.2 The Chairperson shall preside at meetings and act as the Committee’s liaison
12          to City staff.
13      4.3 The Vice Chairperson shall act in the absence of the Chairperson.
14      4.4 A Secretary may be appointed (by the Committee or assigned by staff) to assist
15          with meeting documentation.
16
17   5. Staff Liaison
18      5.1 The Magna City Engineer, or their designee, shall serve as the Staff Liaison to the
19          Committee.
20      5.2 The Staff Liaison shall:
21             i. Provide technical expertise and project updates
22            ii. Coordinate the agenda in collaboration with the Chairperson
23           iii. Assist in implementing Committee recommendations, as appropriate
24           iv.   Serve as the primary point of contact between the Committee and City
25                 departments
26   6. Meetings
27      6.1 The Committee shall meet at least quarterly, with additional meetings
28          scheduled as needed by the Chairperson or a majority of members. If there is no
29          business to be transacted by the Committee the Chair may cancel quarterly
30          meetings; however, the Committee shall meet at least once annually.
31      6.2 All meetings shall comply with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
32      6.3 A quorum shall consist of a majority of appointed members.
33      6.4 Decisions and recommendations shall be made by majority vote of the quorum
34          present.
35      6.5 Meeting minutes shall be taken for each meeting, reviewed by the Committee,
36          and submitted to the City Recorder.


                                                                                    Page 2 of 4
1       6.6 The City Recorder shall serve as the custodian of records for all Committee
2           agendas, minutes, and official correspondence.

3

 4   7. Rules of Order
 5      7.1. Meetings shall be conducted according to Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly
 6      Revised, except where otherwise provided in these bylaws.
 7      7.2. The Chairperson may appoint subcommittees or working groups as needed,
 8      with the consent of the Committee.
 9
10   8. Amendments
11      8.1. These bylaws may be amended by majority vote of the Committee, subject to
12      approval by the Magna City Council.

13




                                                                                 Page 3 of 4
1




    Page 4 of 4
Magna Traffic and Safety Committee:
Proposed Bylaws & Code of Conduct
For Council Adoption


September 9, 2025
                 • Advise the City Council on transportation
                   and safety issues
                 • Focus on:
Purpose of the       • Traffic calming
                     • Pedestrian & cyclist safety
   Committee         • Community traffic concerns
                 • Provide recommendations only (advisory
                   role)
            • Review and recommend safety
              improvements
Committee   • Propose education & awareness programs
 Powers &   • Review citizen requests and concerns
   Duties   • Consult with law enforcement, engineers,
              stakeholders
            • Assist with prioritization of transportation
              capital improvements
               • 5 voting members (all Magna residents)
               • Appointed by the Mayor with Council
                 consent
                   • Initial appointments staggered (2- and
Membership           4-year terms)
 & Structure   • Representation includes:
                   • One City Council member
                   • One Planning Commission member
                   • City Staff Liasson (City Engineer)
             • Quarterly meetings (or more as
               needed)
             • Staff Liaison: Magna City Engineer
               (or designee)
Operations   • City Recorder serves as custodian of
               records
             • Meetings follow Robert’s Rules of
               Order
Committee Code of Conduct
• Members represent the City, not   Removal Provisions
  themselves                        • Members may be removed for:
• Expected to act professionally      • Unexcused absences
  and respectfully                    • Breach of confidentiality
• Advisory role only; no              • Unprofessional or harmful conduct
  independent authority               • Failure to follow laws/policies
• Must comply with Utah OPMA &
  GRAMA
• Clear conflict-of-interest
  disclosure & recusal
                 We request the Council
                 to:
                    • Adopt the proposed
                      Bylaws and Code of
                      Conduct
Council Action      • Authorize staff to
   Requested          establish the Traffic
                      & Safety Committee
                    • Work with the Mayor
                      & Council to appoint
                      members
                                        MAGNA CITY

 RESOLUTION NO. R2025-10                                             DATE: September 23, 2025

    A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA CITY COUNCIL APPROVING AND
AUTHORIZING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO FURTHER REDUCE PARKING
         VIOLATION PENALTIES IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES

WHEREAS, on June 10, 2025 the Magna City Council ("Council") adopted a civil parking
enforcement ordinance ("parking ordinance"), which included a schedule of penalties for
violation of the parking ordinance.

WHEREAS, the parking ordinance allows an administrative law judge ("ALJ'') to reduce a
penalty for violation of the parking ordinance to as low as $25 when parking sign regulations are
not visible where the violation takes place.

WHEREAS, the Council desires to authorize the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
("MSD"), who is responsible for implementing the appeals process outlined in the parking
ordinance, to reduce the penalties outlined in the parking ordinance in limited circumstances in
order to resolve an appeal of parking penalties and save the expense of processing such an
appeal.

WHEREAS, the Council finds that authorizing such reduction via a Resolution is more efficient
than approving individual requests for penalty reduction.

WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt a Resolution, authorizing the Greater Municipal
Services District ("MSD") to reduce the penalties outlined in the parking ordinance in order to
resolve appeals of parking penalties and to save the expense of processing such appeals in
accordance with the following criteria:
                       Condition                            Reduction
                       First Violation                      50% Reduction
                       Second Violation                     25% Reduction
                       Third Violation                      No Reduction

Late Fee: A twenty five percent (25%) late fee will be added to any penalty that remains unpaid
thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of notice.

                                {Signatures on Following Page}
APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Magna City Council this 23rd day of September 2025.




                                             Eric Barney, Mayor
      ATTEST:
                                             APPROVED:



Diana Baun, Magna City Recorder

                                             Paul Ashton, Attorney

 Voting

                            Aye   Nay   Absent

 Mayor Barney
 Council Member Hull
 Council Member Pierce
 Council Member Prokopis
 Council Member Sudbury
CHAPTER 11.44 PENALTIES, PARTIES AND PROCEDURE ON ARREST

11.44.010 Violation Deemed Misdemeanor--Penalty

It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate any of the provisions of this title. Any person violating a
provision shall, except where another penalty is provided, be punished as set out in Section
1.12.010 of this code.

11.44.0205 Violation.

Any person engaging in the unauthorized use of streets, parking lots or other areas as provided
under this chapter, shall be liable for a civil penalty. Any penalty assessed may be in addition to
such other penalties as may be provided in this chapter.

"Unauthorized use of streets" or "unauthorized use" means a violation of any restriction or
prohibition contained in this chapter or its successor.

Civil Penalties: Civil penalties shall be imposed as deﬁned in the most recently adopted Fee
Schedule.

11.44.040 Receipt of Notice

    A. Adjudicative Procedures.

    As used in this section, "receipt of notice" means either:

        1. The affixing of a notice of unauthorized use to the vehicle alleged to have been
           employed in such violation; or
        2. By delivery of such notice of unauthorized use to the owner or driver thereof.

Receipt of notice shall be issued in writing by a peace officer or duly authorized code enforcement
official and contain not less than the following information:

        3.   The name of the person m whose name such vehicle is registered;
        4.   The violation cited;
        5.   The date and place of the violation;
        6.   The make of the vehicle and its license number;
        7.   Notice that the notice of unauthorized use must be responded to; and
        8.   Other information, including information related to the payments by mail or electronic
             means.

    B. Response to Notice:

    Any person to whom a notice of unauthorized use has been issued shall respond within ten (
    10) business days thereof by either paying the civil penalty imposed by section 11.20.170.B of
    this chapter in the manner provided by the receipt of notice, or contesting the notice in the
    manner described by subsection F of this section. Failure to request an administrative hearing
    within ten (10) business days following receipt of notice shall constitute a waiver of a right to an
    administrative hearing and of the right to appeal the notice to any applicable court.

                                                                                             Page 1 of 3
C. Adjudicative Procedures.

Except as otherwise prescribed m this subsection (F), Salt Lake County will follow the
adjudicative procedures outlined in Magna City Code when processing contested matters
relating to the unauthorized use of streets.

The notice of unauthorized use shall constitute prima facie evidence that the violation alleged
therein actually occurred. The adjudication shall be conducted as informally as the
circumstances will allow and shall be based on the civil standard of a preponderance of the
evidence.

The burden to prove any defense shall be upon the person raising such defense. The
administrative law judge may ﬁnd that no unauthorized use occurred and dismiss the notice.

If the administrative law judge ﬁnds that an unauthorized use occurred but one or more of the
defenses set forth in this section is applicable, they may dismiss the notice and release the
owner or driver from liability thereunder. Such defenses are:

   1. At the time of the receipt of the notice, possession of the subject vehicle had been
      acquired in violation of the criminal laws of the State;
   2. Compliance with the subject ordinances would have presented an imminent injury to
      persons or property;
   3. If the administrative law judge ﬁnds that the owner of the vehicle is deceased but was
      living when the notice was issued;
   4. If the administrative law judge ﬁnds that the vehicle was sold with the original license
      plates on, and the notice of unauthorized use was received prior to the sale, provided
      the sale is reported to the Utah Division of Motor Vehicles and the bill of sale is provided
      within twenty {20) days of receipt of the notice;

   If the administrative law judge ﬁnds that an unauthorized use occurred but one or more of
   the defenses set forth in this section is applicable, the administrative law judge may reduce
   the penalty associated therewith, but in no event shall such penalty be reduced below the
   sum of twenty-ﬁve dollars ($25.00). Such defenses are:

   1. The subject vehicle was mechanically incapable of being moved from such location;
      provided, however, such defense shall not apply to any vehicle which remains at such
      location in excess of six ( 6) hours;
   2. Any markings. signs or other indicia of parking use regulation were not clearly visible or
      comprehensible;
   3. At the time of the notice a responsible person rece1vmg such notice of unauthorized
      use had, but failed to properly display, a special disability group license plate or placard
      that was valid and relevant to the notice. However, the administrative law judge may not
      reduce the associated civil penalty below the minimum penalty amount set forth in
      Utah Code Ann. § 41-1 a- 1306, or its successor section;




                                                                                     Page 2 of 3
If the administrative law judge ﬁnds that an unauthorized use occurred and no applicable
defense exists, the administrative law judge may enter into an agreement with a person
who has received notice for the timely or periodic payment of the applicable penalty.

If the administrative law judge and a person who has received notice are unable to resolve
the notice under the prior subsection, the administrative law judge may refer the matter to
the Salt Lake County District Attorney to commence a civil action to compel enforcement of
the notice in a court of competent jurisdiction.

If the penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter remains unsatisﬁed after forty ( 40) days
from the receipt of notice of unauthorized use, or ten ( 10) days from such date as may have
been agreed to by the administrative law judge, the County may use such lawful means as
are available to collect such penalty, including costs and attorney fees.




                                                                                Page 3 of 3
NON-EXCLUSIVE LICENSE AGREEMENT BETWEEN MAGNA CITY AND CENTURYLINK
FOR THE INSTALLATION OF NETWORK FACILITIES IN THE CITY PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-
WAY

This Non-Exclusive License Agreement (“Agreement”) is made as of the Effective Date by and
between Magna City, a Utah municipality (“City”), and Qwest Corporation dba CenturyLink
QC, a Colorado limited liability company, and its subsidiaries, successors, or assigns (“Licensee”
or “CenturyLink”).

                                             RECITALS

A. City has jurisdiction over the use of the public rights-of-way in City in which it now or hereafter
   holds any property interest (“Public ROW”).

B. Licensee desires, and City desires to permit Licensee, to install, maintain, operate, and/or
   control a telecommunications network in the Public ROW (“Network”) for the purpose of
   offering communications services (“Services”), including broadband Internet access service
   as defined in 47 C.F.R. § 8.1(b) (“Broadband Internet Services”), but excluding multichannel
   video programming services that would be subject to a video services franchise, to residents
   and businesses in City (“Customers”).

C. The Network may consist of equipment and facilities that may include aerial strand; aerial or
   underground cables, lines, or strands; underground conduits, vaults, access manholes and
   handholes; electronic equipment; power generators; batteries; pedestals; boxes; cabinets;
   and other similar facilities reasonably needed to provide the Services (“Network Facilities”).

D. City is currently a member of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (“MSD”),
   an independent local district. The MSD currently provides a number of services to the City
   including engineering and public works. Some of those services, by interlocal agreement are
   currently provided through Salt Lake County. By way of examples, references in this
   Agreement to the City Engineer, therefore, refer to the Engineer retained by the City or the
   MSD, whether in-house or by contract, to serve the City, and City notices to Licensee may
   come from its representatives in the City, MSD, Salt Lake County, or other agent.

                                           AGREEMENT

In consideration of the mutual promises made below, City and Licensee agree as follows:

1. Permission to Encroach and Occupy.

   1.1     Permission to Encroach on and Occupy Public ROW. Subject to the conditions set
           forth in this Agreement, City grants Licensee permission to encroach on and occupy
           the Public ROW (the “License”) for the purpose of constructing, installing, repairing,
           maintaining, operating, and if necessary removing the Network and the related
           Network Facilities (the “Work”). This Agreement and the License do not authorize
           Licensee to use any property other than the Public ROW. Licensee’s use of any other
           City property, including parks, poles and conduits, will be governed under a separate
           Agreement regarding that use.

   1.2     Subject to State and Local Law. This Agreement and the License are subject to City’s
           valid authority under State and local laws as they exist now or may be amended from


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 1 of 15
           time-to-time, and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement. City expressly
           reserves the right to adopt, from time to time, in addition to provisions herein contained,
           such ordinances and rules and regulations as City may deem necessary in the lawful
           exercise of its police power for the protection of City’s property, the Public ROW, and
           the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their properties.

   1.3     Subject to City’s Right to Use Public ROW. This Agreement and the License are
           subject and subordinate to City’s prior and future and continuing right to use the Public
           ROW, including but not limited to constructing, installing, operating, maintaining,
           repairing, or removing sewers, water pipes, storm drains, gas pipes, utility poles,
           overhead and underground electric lines and related facilities, and other public utility
           and municipal uses; provided, however, City will use its best efforts to not interfere
           with or affect Licensee’s rights under this Agreement and the License.

   1.4     Subject to Pre-Existing Property Interests. City’s grant of the License is subject to all
           valid pre-existing easements, restrictions, conditions, covenants, encumbrances,
           claims of title or other property interests that may affect the Public ROW. Licensee will
           obtain at its own cost and expense any permission or rights as may be necessary to
           accommodate such pre-existing property interests.

   1.5     No Grant of Property Interest. The License does not grant or convey any property
           interest.

   1.6     Non-Exclusive. The License is not exclusive. City expressly reserves the right to grant
           licenses, permits, franchises, privileges or other rights to any other individual,
           corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint stock company, business
           trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, governmental authority or other entity
           of any nature whatsoever (“Person”), as well as the right in its own name as a
           municipality to use the Public ROW for similar or different purposes allowed Licensee
           under this Agreement.

   1.7     Limitations. Licensee will not knowingly permit another Person to use its Network
           Facilities in any manner which is solely intended to avoid the need for a franchise from
           the City. Nothing in this Section prohibits Licensee from offering Services to another
           Person who has authority to use and occupy the Public ROW. Licensee shall not
           provide services directly regulated by the Utah Public Service Commission (PSC)
           unless authorized by the PSC.

   1.8     Cable System. Licensee shall not operate a cable system as defined in the Cable
           Communications Policy Act of 1984 (47 USCA §521, et seq., as amended) without first
           having obtained a separate cable agreement from the City.

   1.9     Wireless Facilities. The Network Facilities will not include any wireless facilities and
           will not be deployed by Licensee to provide “wireless services” or act as a “wireless
           service provider” by way of the placement of wireless facilities in the Public ROW for
           purposes of the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, codified as Utah Code Ann.
           54-21-101, et seq. effective 1 September 2018, as the same hereafter may be
           amended (the “Small Cell Act”), except pursuant to a separate agreement with City.
           The terms “wireless facilities,” “wireless services,” “wireless service provider,” as used
           above are all as defined in the Small Cell Act.



License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 2 of 15
   1.10     Non-Discrimination.     City’s grant of the License will be open, comparable,
            nondiscriminatory, and competitively neutral, and City will at all times treat Licensee
            in a lawful non-discriminatory manner.

   1.11     Relationship. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a partnership, joint venture,
            or principal-agent relationship between the parties, and neither party is authorized to,
            nor shall either party act toward third persons or the public in a manner that would
            indicate any such relationship with the other.

2. Licensee’s Obligations.

   2.1      Licensee shall comply with and follow all applicable City ordinances, in all work it
            performs in the Public ROW. Licensee may only deviate from obligations in this
            Subsection 2.1 and its subsections to the extent approved by the City Engineer, City
            Mayor, or their delegates.

         2.1.1     Licensee shall obtain all required permits or approvals for construction,
                   maintenance and operations, and shall at all times be subject to and comply
                   with all applicable laws, statutes, codes, rules, regulations, standards, fee
                   schedules, and procedures regarding the construction, operation and
                   maintenance of the Network Facilities in the Public ROW, now in force or
                   which, hereafter, may be promulgated (including but not limited to applicable
                   zoning, land use, historic preservation ordinances, safety standards, and other
                   applicable requirements) and good industry practices. City may inspect the
                   manner of such work and require remedies as may be necessary to assure
                   compliance. In the event Licensee should fail to comply with the terms of any
                   City ordinance, regulation or requirement, City shall give Licensee written
                   notice of such non- compliance and the time for correction provided by
                   ordinance or as provided herein.

         2.1.2     All work in the Public ROW shall be done in a timely, expeditious and safe
                   manner, and in a manner which minimizes the inconvenience to the public or
                   individuals, and shall follow applicable law.

         2.1.3     Licensee will place its Network Facilities in conformance with the permits,
                   plans, and drawings approved by City. All Facilities constructed by Licensee
                   shall be located so as to cause minimum interference with and injury to (i)
                   public use of the Public ROW; (ii) public water mains, storm water
                   infrastructure, street lights, or any public use of the Public ROW; (iii) trees and
                   other natural features.

         2.1.4.   All public and private property disturbed by Licensee’s construction or excavation
                    activities shall be restored promptly by Licensee, at its expense, to
                    substantially its former condition, subject to inspection by City and compliance
                    by Licensee with remedial action required by the City Engineer or his
                    representative pursuant to said inspection.

         2.1.5     Licensee will promptly repair any damage to the Public ROW, City property, or
                   private property if such damage is caused by the Work of Licensee, its
                   contractors, subcontractors, employees, agents or assigns, and to the extent
                   that no other person is responsible for the damage (e.g., where a person other


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 3 of 15
                  than Licensee fails to accurately or timely locate its underground facilities as
                  required by State law). Licensee shall promptly notify the affected owner of
                  the damaged property, and shall promptly repair the damaged property to
                  substantially its former condition, and in accordance with applicable law.
                  Licensee’s restoration work will start promptly but not later than (i) twenty-four
                  (24) hours from City notifying Licensee of damage that poses an imminent
                  threat to public health or safety, (ii) seventy-two (72) hours from City notifying
                  Licensee of damage that materially and adversely affects roads or highways,
                  or (iii) thirty (30) days from City notifying Licensee of all other types of damage,
                  subject to force majeure, including the acts or omissions of City or third parties
                  beyond the reasonable control of Licensee. City must notify Licensee of
                  damage under clauses 2.1.5(ii) and (iii) in writing, but may notify the Licensee
                  by any means of its choice with respect to 2.1.5(i).

                  Each party is responsible for providing the other in writing, which may be by
                  way of email, current and accurate contact information for the purpose of
                  notifying the other. With respect to Section 2.1.5(i) Emergency notice shall be
                  sent via telephone to Licensee’s 24-hour emergency line at 800-244-1111
                  and urgent email shall be sent to relocations@lumen.com. All other requests
                  for relocation shall be marked urgent and sent via email to
                  relocations@lumen.com. For the avoidance of doubt, the effective notification
                  date shall be the date the email was sent to the appropriate Licensee contact
                  set forth herein.


   2.2     Licensee’s Sole Cost and Expense. Licensee will perform the Work at its sole cost
           and expense, except to the extent Licensee is permitted to seek reimbursement for
           such costs under applicable law, code, ordinance, or this Agreement.

   2.3     Compliance with Laws. Licensee will comply with all applicable laws and regulations
           when performing the Work and in operating the Network Facilities. Licensee has
           obtained or will obtain any necessary approvals, licenses or permits required by
           federal and State law to provide its Services consistent with the provisions of this
           Agreement.

   2.4     Undergrounding. City generally prefers that utilities be located underground in areas
           being newly developed. In all locations within the City where all utility services are
           required to be located underground, which may include the use of small pedestals, in
           accordance with permits issued for such new developments, unless otherwise
           authorized by City in writing and subject to applicable law, all of Licensee’s new
           facilities shall be constructed underground. Nothing herein shall require Licensee to
           convert existing overhead facilities to underground facilities until and unless all other
           licensees with overhead facilities in the same location are required to do so. If
           undergrounding is caused by or required due to the activities of a non-governmental
           third party, Licensee’s undergrounding costs shall be borne by such non-governmental
           third party, and City agrees to make the same a condition of any permits issued to
           such non-governmental third party.

   2.5     Reasonable Care, Safety, Workmanlike Manner. Licensee will exercise reasonable
           care and shall act in a safe manner when performing the Work and will use
           commonly accepted practices and equipment to minimize the risks of personal injury,


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 4 of 15
           property damage, soil erosion, and pollution of surface or groundwater. The
           installation, maintenance, renovation, and replacement of Licensee’s facilities in the
           Public ROW shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner.

   2.6     Prohibitions. Except as otherwise provided herein, Network Facilities maintained or
           installed by Licensee within the City will be so located and constructed as not to do
           any of the following acts, unless permitted in writing by the City Engineer, City
           Mayor, or their delegates:

           2.6.1       Interfere with access to or use of any fire hydrant; obscure the vision of or
           interfere with the installation of any traffic-control device or traffic or information sign
           or signal;

           2.6.2       Interfere with, block or obscure motor vehicle driver sight distance lines or
           views established by any ordinance or law, including within intersection and driveway
           sight triangles;

           2.6.3      Materially obscure the light from any street light;

           2.6.4    Cross any water or sewer line except as coordinated with the Magna Water
           Improvement District;

           2.6.5 Damage irrigation, landscaping or trees owned or maintained by the City;

           2.6.6 Damage any communications linesowned or maintained by the City, subject to
           City’s compliance with applicable law (including requirements to accurately and timely
           locate City’s underground facilities); and

           2.6.7 Install Network Facilities in the paved sidewalk area unless authorized in
           advance by the City.

   2.7     No Nuisance/Graffiti. Licensee will maintain its Network Facilities in good and safe
           condition and shall not allow its Network Facilities to cause a public nuisance.
           Licensee will remove all graffiti from the identified Network Facilities in accordance
           with requirements under City code upon notice of same.

   2.8     Removal and Protection of City Property. Except as required in an emergency
           event, no City property shall be removed from the Public ROW, without prior
           permission from an authorized representative of the City. When required by Salt
           Lake County Code, Licensee shall install reference marks where location of section
           corner or survey monuments are likely to be disturbed or destroyed by construction
           operations. Obtain Salt Lake County monument permit not less than 5 days prior to
           disturbing, damaging, moving, removing, covering, or destroying any existing survey
           monument, and pay all costs and provide all work required to replace such
           monuments.

   2.9     Emergency Repairs. In any emergency event in which Licensee needs to cut or
           excavate a Public ROW, and in which Licensee must act immediately and is unable
           to obtain a permit for excavating in the Public ROW from the City beforehand,
           Licensee shall provide the City with notification of such work as soon as practicable
           by calling the City Engineer at (801) 927-0358 or if after the Department’s business


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 5 of 15
           hours, by calling such other emergency telephone number provided to Licensee by
           the City, and shall report the emergency and all related information requested by the
           City representative on call. Licensee shall give the City the telephone number of
           Licensee’s representative(s) for contact about work in the Public ROW or in an
           emergency. Licensee shall have a representative available by telephone at all times
           when work is being done in the Public ROW.

   2.10    Identification of Network Facilities. Licensee will identify the location of its Network
           Facilities using a method consistent with applicable statutes, code, or ordinances.

   2.11    Cooperation in Joint Trench Opportunities. Licensee will cooperate with City in
           identifying ways to reasonably minimize the amount of construction in the Public
           ROW through joint trenching, sharing duct banks, and cost sharing with City and
           third parties undertaking similar construction projects involving the installation of
           underground communications facilities. Licensee’s cooperation obligation is subject
           to any such proposed joint trenching, duct sharing, and cost-sharing opportunities
           being sufficiently compatible with Licensee’s timing, budget, and plans, as
           reasonably determined by the Licensee. Without limiting the foregoing, (i) the
           cooperation opportunity would not be deemed sufficiently compatible with Licensee’s
           plan where the opportunity involves different areas of the Public ROW than Licensee
           has permission to occupy under this Agreement, or would unreasonably delay or
           otherwise hinder or increase the costs of Licensee’s construction plans.

   2.12    As-Built Drawings and Maps. Licensee will maintain accurate as-built drawings and
           maps of its Network Facilities located in City and will provide them as pdf files to the
           City Engineer subject to applicable confidentiality protections claimed by Licensee
           under the Government Records and Management Act, Chapter 2, Title 63, Utah
           Code Ann., or its successor (“GRAMA”). City acknowledges that it has been advised
           by Licensee that such information is highly sensitive, proprietary, and confidential,
           and that its release or wrongful use could cause significant harm to Licensee, its
           customers, and the United States. Licensee has further advised City that such
           information may be considered Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (“PCII”)
           under 6 CFR Part 29. City represents and warrants that such information shall be
           used solely for governmental purposes consistent with City’s police powers, including
           to provide essential information on utility location and capacity during declared local
           emergencies under the Utah Emergency Management Act, Utah Code Title 53,
           Chapter 2a, ordinance or code of City. Further, City and Licensee agree that this
           information shall be treated as a “protected record” under Utah Code §§63G-2-
           305(12) & (48), as it pertains to national security and emergencies; therefore, it is not
           releasable to the general public.

   2.13    Utility Notification Program. Licensee shall participate in and be a member of the
           State’s utility notification program, whether provided for by statute or otherwise.

   2.14    Hazardous Materials. If contaminated or hazardous material is discovered within or
           adjacent to the Public ROW, Licensee must stop work in that affected area,
           immediately notify City of the hazardous material, and report accurately and in
           writing the facts of the encounter to City. Work in the affected area will not thereafter
           be resumed except by written order of City or until the material is determined not to
           be hazardous material or the hazardous material is remediated in compliance with all
           applicable laws.


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 6 of 15
   2.15    Network Design and Scope. Nothing in this Agreement requires Licensee to build to
           all areas of City, and Licensee retains the discretion to determine the scope, location,
           and timing of the design and construction of the Network. Licensee, at its sole
           discretion, may determine separately defined geographic areas with City where its
           Network Facilities will be deployed, and City will be available to consult with Licensee
           regarding the boundaries of City’s recognized neighborhood associations and City’s
           goals of equity and inclusion.

   2.16    INTENTIONALLY OMITTED

   2.17    INTENTIONALLY OMITTED

   2.18    City Uses of Poles and Overhead Structures. City will have the right, without
           payment of attachment fees, to use approved above-ground poles owned solely by
           Licensee within the City for fire alarms, police signal systems, or similar
           governmental, non-commercial purposes and subject to Licensee’s reasonable
           safety and availability review; provided, however, any said uses by City shall be for
           activities owned, operated or used by City for solely governmental, non-commercial
           purposes, and shall expressly not include the provision of communications service in
           a manner which would compete with Licensee’s operations and services and
           provided that such City use does not substantially interfere with Licensee’s
           operations and services.

   2.19    Limitations on Use Rights. Nothing in this Agreement will be construed to require
           Licensee to increase pole capacity or do any make ready work, alter the manner in
           which Licensee attaches equipment to the poles, or alter the manner in which
           Licensee operates and maintains its equipment. Such City attachments shall be
           installed and maintained in accordance with the reasonable requirements of
           Licensee and the then-current National Electrical Safety Code. City attachments
           shall be attached or installed only after written approval by Licensee, which approval
           will be processed in a timely manner and will not be unreasonably withheld,
           conditioned or delayed.

   2.20    Maintenance of City Facilities. City’s use rights shall also be subject to the parties
           reaching a written agreement regarding the maintenance of the City attachments at
           City’s expense.

3. Relocation, Removal, Expiration, Revocation, and Inspection.

   3.1     Emergency Removal or Relocation by City. In the event of a public emergency that
           creates an imminent, material threat to the health, safety, or property of City its
           residents or businesses, City may, if reasonably necessary, and recognizing that the
           same may cause service outages, including of emergency 911 services, and assuming
           all risks and liabilities of the same, remove or relocate the applicable portions of the
           Network Facilities without prior notice to Licensee. City will, however, make best
           efforts to provide prior notice to Licensee before making an emergency removal or
           relocation to allow Licensee the opportunity to protect, remove, and/or relocate the
           Network Facilities. In any event, City will promptly provide to Licensee a written
           description of any emergency removals or relocations of Licensee’s Network Facilities.
           If and to the extent any relocation work was done in a sustainable manner by City (i.e.,


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 7 of 15
           in a manner that enables the Network Facilities to permanently remain in their
           relocated location and position), Licensee will reimburse City for its actual, reasonable,
           and documented costs or expenses incurred for any relocation work performed by City
           under the emergency circumstances described above. Licensee’s obligation to
           reimburse City under this subsection is separate from Licensee’s obligation to pay the
           License Fee (as defined below).

   3.2     Removal of Abandoned Network Facilities. If Licensee abandons or fails to use any
           portions of its Network Facilities for one year or more (“Abandoned Network
           Facilities”), Licensee will notify City and will remove any above-ground facilities at its
           own expense at City’s request within a commercially reasonable period of time. City
           and Licensee will discuss whether underground facilities should be abandoned in
           place or transferred to City, at City’s option. Abandoned Network Facilities do not
           include Network Facilities intended for emergency use, redundant Network Facilities,
           or Network Facilities intended to meet future demand or capacity needs.

   3.3     Relocation to Accommodate Governmental Purposes. If Licensee’s existing Network
           Facilities would interfere with City’s planned use of the Public ROW or other City
           property for a legitimate governmental purpose, such as road construction (including
           widening or relocation of all or part of a Public ROW), or installation, repair,
           maintenance, or operation of government-owned and operated water, sewer, or storm
           drain line/facilities, public roads or curb, gutter and sidewalk, parks, and recreational
           facilities, and in all of the foregoing instances pursuant to a valid exercise of the City’s
           police power in the interests of the public health, welfare, or safety and not for the
           benefit of commercial interests or a private, non-governmental third party, Licensee
           will, upon written notice from City, relocate its Network Facilities at Licensee’s sole
           cost and expense to such other location or locations in the Public ROW as may be
           mutually agreed by the parties, taking into account the needs of the City’s
           governmental purpose and Licensee’s and public’s interest in maintaining the integrity
           and stability of its Network. Licensee will relocate its Network Facilities within a
           commercially reasonable period of time agreed to by the parties, taking into account
           the urgency of the need for relocation, the difficulty of the relocation, and other relevant
           facts and circumstances, except that City may not require Licensee to relocate or
           remove its Network Facilities with less than one hundred and twenty (120) days’ notice.

   3.4     Relocation to Accommodate Commercial Purposes. If Licensee’s existing Network
           Facilities would interfere with City’s planned use of the Public ROW or City property
           for a commercial purpose, or with a third-party’s use of the Public ROW, Licensee will
           not be required to relocate its Network Facilities unless City or the third party enters
           into an agreement with Licensee under which City or the third party would, at a
           minimum: (a) identify and arrange for a new location for Licensee’s Network Facilities
           that is acceptable to Licensee, (b) agree to a commercially reasonable period of time
           for the relocation, which in no event will be less than one hundred and twenty (120)
           days; and (c) agree to reimburse all of Licensee’s reasonable direct costs, expenses,
           and losses associated with the requested relocation.

   3.5     Post-Removal Restoration of Public ROW. When removal or relocation is required
           under this Agreement, Licensee will, after the removal or relocation of the Network
           Facilities, at its own cost (except to the extent subject to reimbursement pursuant to
           Subsection 3.4 hereof), repair and return the Public ROW in which the facilities were
           located to a safe and satisfactory condition in accordance with applicable law. Before


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 8 of 15
              proceeding with removal or relocation work, Licensee will obtain from the City a street
              excavation permit and follow the City’s ordinances and other applicable law.

     3.6      Rights and Duties of Licensee Upon Expiration or Revocation. Upon expiration of the
              license granted under this Agreement, whether by lapse of time, by agreement
              between Licensee and City, or by revocation or forfeiture as provided herein, Licensee
              shall remove from the Public ROW any and all of its Network Facilities and restore the
              Public ROW to as good condition as the same was before the removal was effected,
              ordinary wear and tear and damages not caused by Licensee excepted. In the
              alternative, Licensee may, with the written approval of the City Engineer or City Mayor,
              abandon some or all of the Network Facilities in place.

     3.7      Inspection by City. Installation of the Network Facilities shall be subject to inspection
              by City as provided in applicable law, code, and ordinance.




4.         Contractors and Subcontractors.

     4.1      Use of Contractors and Subcontractors. Licensee may retain contractors and
              subcontractors to perform the Work on Licensee’s behalf.

     4.2      Contractors to be Licensed. Licensee’s contractors and subcontractors used for the
              Work will be properly licensed under applicable law.

     4.3      Authorized Individuals. Licensee’s contractors and subcontractors may submit
              individual permit applications to City on Licensee’s behalf, so long as the permit
              applications are signed by individuals that Licensee has authorized to act on its behalf
              via a letter of authorization provided to City in the form attached as Exhibit “A”
              (“Authorized Individuals”). City will accept permit applications under this Agreement
              submitted and signed by Authorized Individuals, and will treat those applications as if
              they had been submitted by Licensee under this Agreement.

5. Compensation for Use of Public ROW.

     5.1      Licensee is subject to the collection and proper deposit of the Municipal
              Telecommunications License Tax with the Utah State Tax Commission pursuant to
              the Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act (Utah Code Ann. 10-1-401 to 10-
              1-410).

6. Indemnification.


     6.1      Indemnification. Licensee hereby agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the
              City, MSD, and the City’s officials, officers, and employees, individually and collectively
              from all losses, claims, suits, judgments, demands, expenses, reasonable attorney’s
              fees, costs or actions of any kind and nature resulting from personal or bodily injury to
              any person, including employees of Licensee or of any contractor or subcontractor
              employed by Licensee (including bodily injury and death) or damages to any property,
              arising directly out of the negligent acts or omissions of Licensee, its contractors,


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 9 of 15
             subcontractors, officers, agents and employees while exercising any of the rights or
             privileges granted by this Agreement, except for any loss, injury, or personal or
             property damage caused by the negligence or willful misconduct of the City, MSD, or
             the City’s officers, agents, and employees, and except for any losses, claims, suits,
             judgments, demands, expenses, subrogation, attorney’s fees, costs, or actions arising
             out of any claim made by City’s employees that are covered under applicable workers’
             compensation laws. This Subsection 6.1 shall survive the termination of this
             Agreement.

     6.2     City Participation in Litigation. The Licensee shall immediately notify the City of any
             litigation which would affect the City’s rights under this Agreement. City shall promptly
             notify Licensee in writing of any claim or suit for which City seeks indemnification and
             defense by Licensee and request that Licensee indemnify the City. Licensee will give
             written notice to City of its acceptance of the defense and shall be entitled to engage
             legal counsel of its own choosing. City’s failure to so notify and request indemnification
             shall not relieve Licensee of any liability that Licensee might have, except to the extent
             that such failure prejudices Licensee’s ability to defend such claim or suit. In the event
             that Licensee refuses the tender of defense in any suit or any claim, as required under
             the indemnification provisions contained herein, and that refusal is subsequently
             determined by a court having appropriate jurisdiction (or such other tribunal that the
             Parties agree to decide the matter), to have been a wrongful refusal on the part of
             Licensee, Licensee shall pay all of City’s reasonable costs for defense of the action,
             including all reasonable expert witness fees, costs, and attorneys’ fees, and including
             costs and fees incurred in recovering under this indemnification provision. City shall
             have the right, at City’s sole cost and expense, to employ separate counsel on behalf
             of City for City to bring or pursue any counterclaims or interpleader action, equitable
             relief, restraining order, or injunction. Each Party agrees to cooperate and to cause its
             employees and agents to cooperate with the other Party in the defense of any such
             claim, and the relevant records of each Party shall be available to the other party with
             respect to any such defense, subject to applicable laws and policies. No compromise
             or settlement shall be approved or executed without the prior written consent of City
             and Licensee, if the compromise or settlement involves the rights of the other party. If
             the City refuses a compromise or settlement that has been approved by Licensee, City
             shall, at its sole cost and expense, take over the defense and Licensee shall not be
             responsible for, nor obligated to indemnify City, against any cost or liability in excess
             of such refused compromise or settlement.

7. Limitation of Liability.

           NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL,
           CONSEQUENTIAL, EXEMPLARY OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES IN CONNECTION WITH
           THIS AGREEMENT. THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS LIMITATION WILL
           BE SUBJECT TO AND MAY BE LIMITED BY APPLICABLE STATE LAW.

8.    Performance Bond.

      The Parties acknowledge and agree there is an existing performance bond (bond #
      022035196) in the amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000), effective as of April 1,
      2014, naming Magna City as obligee and guaranteeing Licensee's faithful performance of
      its obligations under this Agreement. The performance bond will remain in full force during
      the Term of this Agreement. The requirement of a performance bond will not prevent the


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 10 of 15
       City from other legal remedies it may have against the Licensee if it defaults in any of its
       obligations under this Agreement, including filing a lawsuit.



9.       Insurance.

       Licensee will carry and maintain Commercial General Liability (CGL) insurance, with policy
       limits not less than $2,000,000 in aggregate and $2,000,000 for each occurrence covering
       bodily injury and property damage with the following features: (a) CGL primary insurance
       and waiver of subrogation endorsements; and (b) CGL policy will include an endorsement
       which covers City as additional insured. Licensee shall increase the commercial general
       liability limits contained herein to cover any increase in the City's and MSD's potential
       liability under the Utah Governmental Immunity Act (Utah Code Ann. § 63G-7-101, et. seq.)
       or successor provision. Upon written request, the Licensee will provide a Certificate or
       Memorandum of Insurance showing evidence of the coverage required by this subsection.

10.      Effective Date and Term.

         This Agreement is effective for fifteen (15) years beginning on the date the last party to
         sign executes this Agreement ("Effective Date"). The Agreement will automatically
         renew on the fifteenth anniversary of the Effective Date ("Original Term"), unless either
         party provides written notice to the other of its intent not to renew at least ninety (90)
         days prior to expiration of the Original Term. The renewal term will be for five (5) years,
         and the same renewal process may be used for successive 5-year terms (each a
         “Renewal Term”).

11.     Termination.

      11.1 Termination by City. City may terminate this Agreement if Licensee is in material breach
            of the Agreement, provided that City must first provide Licensee written notice of the
            breach and thirty (30) days to cure, unless the cure cannot reasonably be
            accomplished in that time period, in which case Licensee must commence its efforts
            to cure within that time period and the cure period shall continue as long as such
            diligent efforts continue. No termination under this paragraph will be effective until the
            relevant cure period has expired.

      11.2 Termination by Licensee. Licensee may terminate this Agreement for convenience
           upon one hundred eighty (180) days’ written notice to City.

      11.3 Network Facilities. Upon confirmation of termination or expiration of the Agreement,
          by agreement of both parties, Licensee’s Network Facilities remaining in the Public ROW
          may be abandoned in place and will become property of the City.

12. Assignment. Except as set forth below, neither party may assign or transfer its rights or
obligations under this Agreement, in whole or part, to a third party, without the written consent of
the other party. Any agreed-upon assignee will take the place of the assigning party, and the
assigning party will be released from all of its rights and obligations upon such assignment.




License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 11 of 15
   12.1    Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee may at any time, on written notice to City,
           assign this Agreement and/or any or all of its rights and obligations under this
           Agreement:

           12.1.1 to any Affiliate (as defined below) of Licensee;

           12.1.2 to any purchaser of all or substantially all of Licensee’s Network Facilities in
           City if Licensee determines after a reasonable investigation that the purchaser has the
           resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of this                   Agreement;

           12.1.3 subject to City’s consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned,
           or delayed, Licensee may assign to any successor in interest of Licensee’s business
           operations in City in connection with any merger, acquisition, or similar transaction if
           Licensee determines after a reasonable investigation that the successor in interest has
           the resources and ability to fulfill the obligations of this Agreement.

   12.2     Following any assignment of this Agreement to an Affiliate, Licensee will remain
           responsible for such Affiliate’s performance under the terms of this Agreement. For
           purposes of this Agreement, (i) “Affiliate” means any Person that now or in the future,
           directly or indirectly controls, is controlled with or by, or is under common control with
           Licensee; and (ii) “control” means, with respect to: (a) a U.S. corporation, the
           ownership, directly or indirectly, of fifty percent (50%) or more of the voting power to
           elect directors thereof, or (b) a non-U.S. corporation, if the voting power to elect
           directors thereof is less than fifty percent (50%), the maximum amount allowed by
           applicable law; and (c) any other Person, fifty percent (50%) or more ownership
           interest in said Person, or the power to direct the management of such Person.


13.     Notice. All notices related to this Agreement will be in writing and sent to the addresses
set forth below, which the parties may update from time to time by sending written notice to the
other party. Notices are effective (a) when delivered in person, (b) upon confirmation of a receipt
when transmitted by email, (c) on the next business day if transmitted by registered or certified
mail, postage prepaid (with confirmation of delivery), (d) on the next business day if transmitted
by overnight courier (with confirmation of delivery), or (e) three (3) days after the date of mailing,
whichever is earlier.

   If to City
   c/o Magna City Mayor
        8952 West Magna Main Street
        Magna, UT 84044


        with email copies to Paul Ashton, legal counsel, at 1237 East Lorraine Drive, SLC, UT
84106

   If to MSD (as City’s agent)
   c/o General Manager
   860 Levoy Dr, Suite 300, Taylorsville, UT 84123
   MaHoward@msd.utah.gov

   If to Licensee


License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 12 of 15
   c/o Network Infrastructure Services Right of Way
    931 14th Street, Denver, CO 80202
       With a copy to Network Legal Department, at 931 14th Street, Denver, CO 80202
   Legal.Notices@Lumen.com

14.      Meet and Discuss. Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, before City or
Licensee brings an action or claim before any court or regulatory body arising out of a duty or
right arising under this Agreement, Licensee and City shall first make a good-faith effort to resolve
their dispute by discussion.

15.      General Provisions. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Utah
without regard to conflicts of laws principles. Any claim or lawsuit arising out of this Agreement
must be brought in the Third District Court pursuant to the laws of the State of Utah, or in the
U.S. District Court for the State of Utah located in Salt Lake County, Utah. Neither party will be
liable for failure or delay in performance to the extent caused by circumstances beyond its
reasonable control. The parties agree to meet at reasonable times on reasonable notice to
discuss this Agreement or Licensee's provision of Services during the term of the Agreement.
This Agreement sets out all terms agreed between the parties and supersedes all previous or
contemporaneous agreements between the parties relating to its subject matter. The failure of a
party to insist upon strict adherence to any term of this Agreement on any occasion will not be
considered a waiver of such party's rights or deprive such party of the right thereafter to insist
upon strict adherence to that term or any other term of this Agreement. This Agreement,
including any exhibits, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties related to this
subject matter, and any change to its terms must be in writing and signed by the parties. This
Agreement is not intended to and will not be construed to give any third party any interest or
rights (including, without limitation, any third party beneficiary rights) with respect to or in
connection with any agreement or provision contained herein or contemplated hereby. The
parties may execute this Agreement in counterparts, including facsimile, PDF, and other
electronic copies, which taken together will constitute one instrument. Each party to this
Agreement agrees that Licensee may use electronic signatures.

16.    Warranty of Authorization; Binding on Successors and Assigns. The person
signing for and on behalf of Licensee warrants and represents that he or she is duly authorized
and empowered to enter into this agreement for and on behalf of Licensee, and that Licensee is
duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Utah, and that by his or her
signature, he or she does bind Licensee to the terms of this Agreement. The person signing
below for Licensee warrants to the City that all necessary company approvals, authorizations
and consents have been obtained, and all company procedures required to be taken have been
followed to enable Licensee to enter into this Agreement and to perform its duties hereunder.
This Agreement is binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties.

17.       Governmental Immunity. City is a body corporate and politic of the State of Utah,
subject to the Governmental Immunity Act of Utah (the "Act"), Utah Code Ann. §§ 63G-7-101 to
- 904, as amended. The parties agree that City will only be liable within the parameters of the
Act. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed in any way, to modify the limits of
liability set forth in that Act or the basis for liability as established in the Act.

Signed by authorized representatives of the parties on the dates written below.




License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 13 of 15
Qwest Corporation dba CenturyLink QC            Magna City

 ___________________________________            ______________________________________
 (Authorized Signature)                         (Authorized Signature)

 __Shaun Giesler_____________________           Eric Barney____________________________
 (Name)                                         (Name)
 Network Right of Way Manager_________          Magna City Mayor___________________________
 (Title)                                        (Title)

 Address: 931 14th Street, Denver, CO 80202         Address:
                                                    Webster Center
 Date:                                              8952 W Magna Main Street
 _______________________________                    Magna, UT 84044

                                                    Date: ______________________________


                                                    APPROVED TO FORM:

                                                    ________________________________
                                                               City Attorney




License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 14 of 15
                                        EXHIBIT “A”

                           FORM OF LETTER OF AUTHORIZATION


[LICENSEE LETTERHEAD]
[Date]
Via Email ([Email Address])

[insert name] City
[Addressee]
[Address]

Re: [Amended] Letter of Authorization

Dear [Name],

In accordance with Section 4.3 of the License Agreement dated ______ between [insert name]
City and [insert name], [insert name] hereby designates the following Authorized Individuals (as
that term is defined in the Agreement), who may submit and sign permit applications and other
submissions to the City on behalf of [insert name].

{Insert name and title for each Authorized Individual, including any Authorized Individual
previously named and whose authority continues. Strike through the names of any individuals
who are no longer authorized, if any.}

   1.   Name, Title
   2.   Name, Title
   3.   Name, Title (previously authorized, authorization continues)
   4.   Name, Title (authorization withdrawn)

This authorization may be withdrawn or amended and superseded by a written amendment to
this Letter of Authorization, which will be effective 24 hours after receipt by the City.

Kind regards,


[Name]
Manager, [insert name]




License Agreement Between Magna City and CenturyLink | Page 1 of 15
                                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                         Standard Financial Report
                                                   60 Magna City - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                     8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                                2025             2026
                                                              Year-End           YTD
                                                               Actual           Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                                (64,771.39)      581,246.79
    10110 Cash - Xpress Bill Pay                                 41,178.53       43,601.82
    10200 Cash - PTIF                                          862,991.94     1,490,854.46
    10401 Zions Credit Card                                     (1,198.50)       (3,950.76)
    10750 Undeposited Receipts                                        0.82             0.75
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                             838,201.40     2,111,753.06
   Receivables
    11530 Accounts Rec. -                                         3,692.00        3,692.00
    12500 Due From Other Gov.                                 2,069,348.21    1,976,015.21
    12550 Due from Other Funds                                   27,590.10            0.00
   Total Receivables                                          2,100,630.31    1,979,707.21
  Total Current Assets                                        2,938,831.71    4,091,460.27
  Non-Current Assets
   Restricted assets
    10102 Cash - Zions Bond Escrow                             953,156.80       938,644.15
   Total Restricted assets                                     953,156.80       938,644.15
  Total Non-Current Assets                                     953,156.80       938,644.15
 Total Assets:                                                3,891,988.51    5,030,104.42
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                      13,323.45        52,937.62
    23450 Performance Bonds Payable                            953,056.80       938,544.15
   Total Current liabilities                                   966,380.25       991,481.77
  Total Liabilities:                                           966,380.25       991,481.77
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                   2,075,108.26    3,188,122.65
   29010 Net Assets - Restricted Capital Fund                    68,000.00       68,000.00
   29561 Net Assets - Restricted Corridor Preservation          782,500.00      782,500.00
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                 2,925,608.26    4,038,622.65
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                            3,891,988.51    5,030,104.42
Total Net Position                                                    0.00               0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                   Page 1                       9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                        Standard Financial Report
                                                  60 Magna City - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                    8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                               2025             2026                          Unearned/           %
                                                             Year-End           YTD              2026          Unused           Earned/
                                                              Actual           Actual           Budget         Budget            Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   Sales taxes
    3100.300 Sales Tax                                       6,484,290.71      500,000.00      6,050,000.00   5,550,000.00           8.26%
   Total Sales taxes                                         6,484,290.71      500,000.00      6,050,000.00   5,550,000.00           8.26%
   SB 136 Sales Tax
    3100.350 SB 136 Sales Tax                                 565,053.79        50,000.00       525,000.00     475,000.00            9.52%
   Total SB 136 Sales Tax                                     565,053.79        50,000.00       525,000.00     475,000.00            9.52%
  Total Taxes                                                7,049,344.50      550,000.00      6,575,000.00   6,025,000.00           8.37%
  Intergovernmental revenue
   B&C Road Fund Allotment
     3100.560 B&C Road Fund Allotment                        1,415,198.03               0.00   1,250,000.00   1,250,000.00           0.00%
     3100.561 HB244 Corridor Preservation Funds                225,000.00               0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00%
   Total B&C Road Fund Allotment                             1,640,198.03               0.00   1,250,000.00   1,250,000.00           0.00%
   CARES Act
    3100.322 ARPA Funding                                            0.00               0.00   1,823,902.00   1,823,902.00           0.00%
   Total CARES Act                                                   0.00               0.00   1,823,902.00   1,823,902.00           0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                            1,640,198.03               0.00   3,073,902.00   3,073,902.00           0.00%
  Licenses and permits
   Business licenses
    3100.130 Business Licenses                                  72,829.84        3,590.00        50,000.00      46,410.00            7.18%
   Total Business licenses                                      72,829.84        3,590.00        50,000.00      46,410.00            7.18%
   Building permits
    3100.260 Building Permit                                  880,337.64        25,397.39      1,525,000.00   1,499,602.61           1.67%
   Total Building permits                                     880,337.64        25,397.39      1,525,000.00   1,499,602.61           1.67%
   Other license and permits
    3100.250 Dog Licenses                                           0.00             0.00           500.00         500.00            0.00%
    3100.261 Other Permits                                          0.00             0.00        20,000.00      20,000.00            0.00%
    3100.262 Plumbing, Electric Permits                             0.00             0.00           500.00         500.00            0.00%
    3100.263 Sewer and Water Permits                                0.00             0.00         5,000.00       5,000.00            0.00%
    3100.264 Zoning-Land Use Permit                               200.00           100.00         7,500.00       7,400.00            1.33%
   Total Other license and permits                                200.00           100.00        33,500.00      33,400.00            0.30%
  Total Licenses and permits                                  953,367.48        29,087.39      1,608,500.00   1,579,412.61           1.81%
  Charges for services
   Charges other
    3100.420 Engineering Services                              59,901.75         3,405.00        50,000.00      46,595.00            6.81%
    3100.450 Planning Services                                175,331.86             0.00       500,000.00     500,000.00            0.00%
   Total Charges other                                        235,233.61         3,405.00       550,000.00     546,595.00            0.62%
  Total Charges for services                                  235,233.61         3,405.00       550,000.00     546,595.00            0.62%
  Fines and forfeitures
   Code enforcement fines and fees
    3100.240 Code Enforcement Fines and Fees                     6,362.75          490.43         5,000.00       4,509.57            9.81%
   Total Code enforcement fines and fees                         6,362.75          490.43         5,000.00       4,509.57            9.81%
   Justice court fines/forfeitures
    3100.500 Justice Court Fines/Forfeitures                  228,937.75                0.00     55,000.00      55,000.00            0.00%
   Total Justice court fines/forfeitures                      228,937.75                0.00     55,000.00      55,000.00            0.00%
  Total Fines and forfeitures                                 235,300.50           490.43        60,000.00      59,509.57            0.82%
  Interest
   3600.100 Interest Earnings                                   63,828.67        3,250.08        85,000.00      81,749.92            3.82%
  Total Interest                                                63,828.67        3,250.08        85,000.00      81,749.92            3.82%
  Miscellaneous revenue
   Miscellaneous other
    3600.900 Other Revenue                                           6.47               0.00     10,000.00      10,000.00            0.00%
    3600.901 Magna 4th of July Event                                 0.00               0.00      1,000.00       1,000.00            0.00%
   Total Miscellaneous other                                         6.47               0.00     11,000.00      11,000.00            0.00%
  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                        6.47               0.00     11,000.00      11,000.00            0.00%
  Contributions and transfers
INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                  Page 2                                                  9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                       Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                      Standard Financial Report
                                                60 Magna City - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                  8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                              2025            2026                          Unearned/           %
                                                           Year-End           YTD              2026          Unused           Earned/
                                                             Actual          Actual          Budget          Budget            Used
   3800.100 Contribution from GF                           1,060,009.00    1,281,873.00     1,281,873.00           0.00         100.00%
  Total Contributions and transfers                        1,060,009.00    1,281,873.00     1,281,873.00           0.00         100.00%
 Total Revenue:                                           11,237,288.26    1,868,105.90    13,245,275.00   11,377,169.10          14.10%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.100 Wages                                           276,827.48        17,387.04       443,800.00      426,412.96          3.92%
   4100.130 Employee Benefits                                   481.49            29.26       140,780.00      140,750.74          0.02%
   4100.150 Social Security Tax                              16,150.91         1,064.85             0.00       (1,064.85)         0.00%
   4100.160 Medicare                                          3,959.31           249.04             0.00         (249.04)         0.00%
   4100.175 LTD                                                 720.93            29.11             0.00           (29.11)        0.00%
   4100.180 Medical Insurance                                25,528.38         1,368.82             0.00       (1,368.82)         0.00%
   4100.181 Retirement Contribution                          31,881.95        13,178.49             0.00     (13,178.49)          0.00%
   4100.200 Awards, Promotional & Meals                       1,078.75            85.09         2,000.00         1,914.91         4.25%
   4100.210 Subscriptions/Memberships                         4,355.00        17,317.70        27,830.00       10,512.30         62.23%
   4100.220 Printing/Publications/Advertising                   559.93            90.00         4,000.00         3,910.00         2.25%
   4100.230 Travel/Mileage                                    1,627.54             0.00         2,500.00         2,500.00         0.00%
   4100.240 Office Expense and Supplies                         772.24            52.13        14,750.00       14,697.87          0.35%
   4100.255 Computer Equip/software                           4,600.00             0.00         7,500.00         7,500.00         0.00%
   4100.280 Cell phone and Telephone                          3,912.09           312.70             0.00         (312.70)         0.00%
   4100.310 Attorney-Civil                                   54,407.50         4,007.50        90,000.00       85,992.50          4.45%
   4100.312 Lobbyist Services                                32,000.00         6,000.00             0.00       (6,000.00)         0.00%
   4100.320 Attorney-Land use                                     0.00             0.00        35,000.00       35,000.00          0.00%
   4100.330 Training and Seminars                             1,271.32             0.00         5,000.00         5,000.00         0.00%
   4100.360 Web Page Development/Maintenance                 11,166.82             0.00         9,745.00         9,745.00         0.00%
   4100.370 Software/Streaming                               25,490.11         1,126.00        17,500.00       16,374.00          6.43%
   4100.390 Payroll Processing Fees                             504.00             0.00         1,100.00         1,100.00         0.00%
   4100.410 Communications                                      329.04             0.00        10,000.00       10,000.00          0.00%
   4100.420 Contributions/Special Events                     35,700.00             0.00       120,700.00      120,700.00          0.00%
   4100.421 Magna 4th of July celebration                    35,597.30        63,384.13        75,000.00        11,615.87        84.51%
   4100.470 Credit card and Bank Expenses                       325.21             0.00             0.00             0.00         0.00%
   4100.510 Insurance                                        21,104.48        26,963.45        26,000.00         (963.45)       103.71%
   4100.520 Workers Comp Insurance                              130.01         3,475.14         3,750.00           274.86        92.67%
   4100.590 Postage                                          11,347.28         2,522.94        10,000.00         7,477.06        25.23%
   4100.600 Professional and Technical                       19,058.38         1,193.76       112,000.00      110,806.24          1.07%
   4100.635 Election Support Services                             0.00         3,000.00        82,918.00       79,918.00          3.62%
   4100.640 Grant Related                                     4,500.00             0.00             0.00             0.00         0.00%
   4100.860 Code Enforcement Mitigation                       9,031.47         4,850.98             0.00       (4,850.98)         0.00%
   4100.870 Webster Center                                    9,375.72         1,170.48             0.00       (1,170.48)         0.00%
   4100.871 Utilities                                         3,370.89             0.00        40,000.00       40,000.00          0.00%
   4100.880 Non-Classified Expenses                           5,621.00             0.00             0.00             0.00         0.00%
  Total Administration                                      652,786.53       168,858.61     1,281,873.00    1,113,014.39         13.17%
  COVID Related Expenses
   4100.243 ARPA Act Expense and Supplies                          0.00            0.00     1,823,902.00    1,823,902.00           0.00%
  Total COVID Related Expenses                                     0.00            0.00     1,823,902.00    1,823,902.00           0.00%
  Transfers
   4100.928 Contribution to General Fund                   9,651,371.52      586,232.90     9,759,246.00    9,173,013.10           6.01%
   4100.930 Contribution to Capital Fund                           0.00            0.00       380,254.00      380,254.00           0.00%
   4100.932 Contribution to Magna Restricted Capital F       225,000.00            0.00             0.00            0.00           0.00%
   48450.001 Operational Transfers out                         4,297.34            0.00             0.00            0.00           0.00%
  Total Transfers                                          9,880,668.86      586,232.90    10,139,500.00    9,553,267.10           5.78%
 Total Expenditures:                                     10,533,455.39       755,091.51    13,245,275.00   12,490,183.49           5.70%
Total Change In Net Position                                703,832.87     1,113,014.39             0.00   (1,113,014.39)          0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 3                                                  9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                       Standard Financial Report
                                       61 Pleasant Green Cemetery Fund - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                   8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025             2026
                                                           Year-End           YTD
                                                            Actual           Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                              114,322.42      109,301.37
    10750 Undeposited Receipts                                     0.02            0.02
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                           114,322.44      109,301.39
  Total Current Assets                                       114,322.44      109,301.39
 Total Assets:                                               114,322.44      109,301.39
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                     9,242.00        5,252.00
   Total Current liabilities                                   9,242.00        5,252.00
  Total Liabilities:                                           9,242.00        5,252.00
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                  105,080.44      104,049.39
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                105,080.44      104,049.39
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                           114,322.44      109,301.39
Total Net Position                                                 0.00               0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 4                              9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                       Standard Financial Report
                                       61 Pleasant Green Cemetery Fund - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                   8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025             2026                         Unearned/           %
                                                           Year-End           YTD             2026          Unused           Earned/
                                                            Actual           Actual          Budget         Budget            Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Charges for services
   Charges other
    3600.200 Sale of Lots                                     37,288.70            0.00       25,000.00      25,000.00            0.00%
    3600.300 Grave Opening revenues                           11,379.40        2,050.00       10,000.00       7,950.00           20.50%
   Total Charges other                                        48,668.10        2,050.00       35,000.00      32,950.00            5.86%
  Total Charges for services                                  48,668.10        2,050.00       35,000.00      32,950.00            5.86%
  Miscellaneous revenue
   Miscellaneous other
    3600.400 Other Cemetery revenues                           5,123.05        2,170.95        5,000.00       2,829.05           43.42%
    3600.900 Other Revenues                                    3,521.65            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00%
   Total Miscellaneous other                                   8,644.70        2,170.95        5,000.00       2,829.05           43.42%
  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                  8,644.70        2,170.95        5,000.00       2,829.05           43.42%
  Contributions and transfers
   3800.100 Transfer In                                            0.00               0.00    40,000.00      40,000.00            0.00%
  Total Contributions and transfers                                0.00               0.00    40,000.00      40,000.00            0.00%
 Total Revenue:                                               57,312.80        4,220.95       80,000.00      75,779.05            5.28%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.100 Grave opening expenses                            11,275.00          550.00        1,000.00         450.00           55.00%
   4100.155 Cremation expenses                                 5,900.00            0.00        1,500.00       1,500.00            0.00%
   4100.240 Office Expense and Supplies                          548.54            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00%
   4100.255 Computer Equip/software                              139.40            0.00        2,500.00       2,500.00            0.00%
   4100.600 Professional and Technical                        58,469.00        4,702.00       75,000.00      70,298.00            6.27%
   4100.910 Property Tax                                       7,535.82            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00%
  Total Administration                                        83,867.76        5,252.00       80,000.00      74,748.00            6.57%
 Total Expenditures:                                          83,867.76        5,252.00       80,000.00      74,748.00            6.57%
Total Change In Net Position                                (26,554.96)       (1,031.05)            0.00      1,031.05            0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 5                                                 9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                     Standard Financial Report
                                       62 Magna Communities that Care - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                 8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                             2025            2026
                                                           Year-End          YTD
                                                            Actual          Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                              85,668.12     (106,301.42)
    10401 Zions Credit Card                                      (0.54)          (0.54)
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                           85,667.58     (106,301.96)
   Receivables
    12500 Due From Other Gov.                               124,511.90      124,511.90
   Total Receivables                                        124,511.90      124,511.90
  Total Current Assets                                      210,179.48       18,209.94
 Total Assets:                                              210,179.48       18,209.94
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                  181,705.50        2,521.00
   Total Current liabilities                                181,705.50        2,521.00
  Total Liabilities:                                        181,705.50        2,521.00
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                  28,473.98       15,688.94
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                28,473.98       15,688.94
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                          210,179.48       18,209.94
Total Net Position                                                0.00               0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 6                             9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                         Standard Financial Report
                                           62 Magna Communities that Care - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                     8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                                 2025            2026                         Unearned/           %
                                                               Year-End          YTD             2026          Unused           Earned/
                                                                Actual          Actual          Budget         Budget            Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Intergovernmental revenue
   Intergovernmental Other
     3100.320 Grants - Substance Use Disorder Grant             110,000.02            0.00      125,000.00     125,000.00            0.00%
     3100.321 Grants - Safety & Success                         339,984.86            0.00      500,000.00     500,000.00            0.00%
     3100.322 Grants - Youth Court                                  385.89           23.97            0.00         (23.97)           0.00%
     3100.323 Grants - Youth Advocacy Grant Initiative P         41,500.00            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
   Total Intergovernmental Other                                491,870.77           23.97      625,000.00     624,976.03            0.00%
   State liquor fund
    3100.580 State Liquor Fund Allotment                         56,161.55               0.00    25,000.00      25,000.00            0.00%
   Total State liquor fund                                       56,161.55               0.00    25,000.00      25,000.00            0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                               548,032.32           23.97      650,000.00     649,976.03            0.00%
  Miscellaneous revenue
   Miscellaneous other
    3600.900 Other Revenue                                            0.00               0.00    25,000.00      25,000.00            0.00%
   Total Miscellaneous other                                          0.00               0.00    25,000.00      25,000.00            0.00%
  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                         0.00               0.00    25,000.00      25,000.00            0.00%
 Total Revenue:                                                 548,032.32           23.97      675,000.00     674,976.03            0.00%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.100 CTC Coordinator - Wages                              59,960.92        3,317.01       65,000.00      61,682.99            5.10%
   4100.130 CTC Coordinator - Employee Benefits                     271.01           17.54       30,000.00      29,982.46            0.06%
   4100.150 CTC Coordinator - Social Security Tax                 3,507.89          192.43            0.00        (192.43)           0.00%
   4100.160 CTC Coordinator - Medicare                              820.39           45.01            0.00         (45.01)           0.00%
   4100.175 CTC Coordinator - LTD                                   231.08            9.62            0.00          (9.62)           0.00%
   4100.180 CTC Coordinator - Medical Insurance                   9,193.02          489.08            0.00        (489.08)           0.00%
   4100.181 CTC Coordinator - Retirement Contribution             9,129.43          470.96            0.00        (470.96)           0.00%
   4100.190 FUTA                                                     12.89            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
   4100.200 CTC - Awards, Promotional & Meals                     3,504.61          413.53            0.00        (413.53)           0.00%
   4100.230 CTC - Travel/Mileage                                 72,667.44        2,573.89            0.00      (2,573.89)           0.00%
   4100.240 CTC - Office Expense and Supplies                     2,732.06           79.00            0.00         (79.00)           0.00%
   4100.600 CTC - Contractors                                     7,108.31        1,760.00            0.00      (1,760.00)           0.00%
   4100.601 CTC - Programs (Afterschool Program Sup               4,558.57          988.54            0.00        (988.54)           0.00%
   4100.603 CTC - Communications and PR                             959.07            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
   4100.604 CTC - Events                                          7,659.57            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
   4100.605 CTC - Youth Coalition                                17,371.09            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
   4100.607 CTC - Sponsorships                                   14,032.44            0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00%
   4100.610 Safety & Success - Travel                                 0.00        1,231.40            0.00      (1,231.40)           0.00%
   4100.611 Safety & Success - Subawards                        371,117.53            0.00      500,000.00     500,000.00            0.00%
   4100.613 Safety & Success - Youth Court                        2,809.35            0.00       10,000.00      10,000.00            0.00%
   4100.614 Safety & Success - Other Expenses                     5,427.31            0.00       15,000.00      15,000.00            0.00%
   4100.615 Safety & Success - Contractors                       13,026.27        1,221.00       30,000.00      28,779.00            4.07%
   4100.850 Beer Funds                                                0.00            0.00       25,000.00      25,000.00            0.00%
  Total Administration                                          606,100.25       12,809.01      675,000.00     662,190.99            1.90%
 Total Expenditures:                                            606,100.25       12,809.01      675,000.00     662,190.99            1.90%
Total Change In Net Position                                    (58,067.93)     (12,785.04)            0.00     12,785.04            0.00%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                    Page 7                                                9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                          Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                       Standard Financial Report
                                     64 Magna Community Reinvestment Agency - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                   8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                               2025            2026
                                                             Year-End          YTD
                                                              Actual          Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                                  1,312.00     (27,590.10)
    10200 Cash - PTIF                                                0.00   2,511,729.00
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                               1,312.00   2,484,138.90
  Total Current Assets                                           1,312.00   2,484,138.90
 Total Assets:                                                   1,312.00   2,484,138.90
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                      1,312.00        2,645.38
    24000 Due to Other Funds                                   27,590.10            0.00
   Total Current liabilities                                   28,902.10        2,645.38
  Total Liabilities:                                           28,902.10        2,645.38
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                   (27,590.10)   2,481,493.52
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                 (27,590.10)   2,481,493.52
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                               1,312.00   2,484,138.90
Total Net Position                                                  0.00               0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                  Page 8                                 9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                         Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                    Standard Financial Report
                                  64 Magna Community Reinvestment Agency - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                            2025            2026                        Unearned/           %
                                                          Year-End          YTD            2026          Unused           Earned/
                                                           Actual          Actual         Budget         Budget            Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   MET Taxes
    3100.100 General CRA funds                                   0.00            0.00      25,000.00        25,000.00          0.00%
    3100.101 Magna Main                                          0.00    1,546,784.00           0.00   (1,546,784.00)          0.00%
    3100.102 Housing                                             0.00      726,931.00           0.00     (726,931.00)          0.00%
    3100.103 Arbor Park                                          0.00      238,014.00           0.00     (238,014.00)          0.00%
   Total MET Taxes                                               0.00    2,511,729.00      25,000.00   (2,486,729.00)     10,046.92%
  Total Taxes                                                    0.00    2,511,729.00      25,000.00   (2,486,729.00)     10,046.92%
 Total Revenue:                                                  0.00    2,511,729.00      25,000.00   (2,486,729.00)     10,046.92%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.310.000 General - Attorney-Civil                    21,532.10        1,216.00           0.00       (1,216.00)          0.00%
   4100.310.003 Arbor Park - Attorney-Civil                  3,308.00           96.00           0.00          (96.00)          0.00%
   4100.600 General - Professional and Technical             2,750.00            0.00           0.00             0.00          0.00%
  Total Administration                                      27,590.10        1,312.00           0.00       (1,312.00)          0.00%
  Contracted Services
   Parks maintenance
    4110.866.09 Magna Main - Mantle - Park Maintenan             0.00          912.18           0.00         (912.18)          0.00%
    4110.866.10 Magna Main - Minis - Park Maintenanc             0.00          421.20           0.00         (421.20)          0.00%
   Total Parks maintenance                                       0.00        1,333.38           0.00       (1,333.38)          0.00%
  Total Contracted Services                                      0.00        1,333.38           0.00       (1,333.38)          0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                        27,590.10        2,645.38           0.00       (2,645.38)          0.00%
Total Change In Net Position                               (27,590.10)   2,509,083.62      25,000.00   (2,484,083.62)     10,036.33%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                               Page 9                                               9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                           Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                       Standard Financial Report
                                        65 Magna Council Designated Fund - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                   8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                               2025            2026
                                                             Year-End          YTD
                                                              Actual          Actual
Net Position
 Assets:
  Current Assets
   Cash and cash equivalents
    10100 Cash - Zions Checking                               322,444.98      422,068.14
    10101 Cash - Zions CARES                                    4,297.34        4,297.34
    10200 Cash - PTIF                                         525,533.97      534,547.59
    10202 Cash - PTIF 9074 CARES                            1,529,845.45    1,535,652.39
    10401 Zions Credit Card                                         0.00        2,626.26
    10750 Undeposited Receipts                                      0.01            0.01
   Total Cash and cash equivalents                          2,382,121.75    2,499,191.73
   Receivables
    11530 Accounts Rec. -                                      13,760.00       13,760.00
    12500 Due From Other Gov.                                 124,786.57      198,752.15
   Total Receivables                                          138,546.57      212,512.15
   Other current assets
    12601 Prepaid - 4th of July Event                          30,297.57               0.00
   Total Other current assets                                  30,297.57               0.00
  Total Current Assets                                      2,550,965.89     2,711,703.88
 Total Assets:                                              2,550,965.89     2,711,703.88
 Liabilites and Fund Equity:
  Liabilities:
   Current liabilities
    21000 Accounts Payable                                    135,990.73      108,790.73
   Total Current liabilities                                  135,990.73      108,790.73
   Deferred revenue
    23455 CARES2 Deferred Revenue                           1,410,811.80     1,410,811.80
    25150 Unearned Revenue - 4th of July                        7,734.65             0.00
   Total Deferred revenue                                   1,418,546.45     1,410,811.80
  Total Liabilities:                                        1,554,537.18    1,519,602.53
  Equity - Fund Balance
   29000 Unassigned Net Position (Fund Bal)                   996,428.71    1,192,101.35
  Total Equity - Fund Balance                                 996,428.71    1,192,101.35
 Total Liabilites and Fund Equity:                          2,550,965.89     2,711,703.88
Total Net Position                                                  0.00               0.00




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                 Page 10                              9/4/2025 11:06 AM
                                        Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                                      Standard Financial Report
                                       65 Magna Council Designated Fund - 07/01/2025 to 07/31/2025
                                                  8.33% of the fiscal year has expired

                                                              2025            2026                          Unearned/           %
                                                            Year-End          YTD              2026          Unused           Earned/
                                                             Actual          Actual           Budget         Budget            Used
Change In Net Position
 Revenue:
  Taxes
   MET Taxes
    3100.111 MET-Municipal Energy                                458.16            0.00              0.00           0.00           0.00%
    3100.112 MET-Municipal Telecom                            52,878.56        6,000.00         60,000.00      54,000.00          10.00%
    3100.113 MET-Pacificorp/Rocky Mtn Power                  507,383.92      146,124.25        600,000.00     453,875.75          24.35%
    3100.114 MET-Questar Gas/Dominion Energy                 338,354.08       15,000.00        600,000.00     585,000.00           2.50%
   Total MET Taxes                                           899,074.72      167,124.25      1,260,000.00   1,092,875.75          13.26%
   Franchise taxes
    3100.401 Google Franchise Fee                             43,108.00               0.00     30,000.00      30,000.00            0.00%
   Total Franchise taxes                                      43,108.00               0.00     30,000.00      30,000.00            0.00%
  Total Taxes                                                942,182.72      167,124.25      1,290,000.00   1,122,875.75          12.96%
  Intergovernmental revenue
   Intergovernmental Other
     3100.320 Grants                                          17,515.00       23,962.25              0.00    (23,962.25)           0.00%
   Total Intergovernmental Other                              17,515.00       23,962.25              0.00    (23,962.25)           0.00%
   B&C Road Fund Allotment
    3100.561 HB244 Corridor Preservation Funds                     0.00               0.00    225,000.00     225,000.00            0.00%
   Total B&C Road Fund Allotment                                   0.00               0.00    225,000.00     225,000.00            0.00%
   CARES Act
    3100.322 ARPA                                            648,438.07               0.00           0.00          0.00            0.00%
   Total CARES Act                                           648,438.07               0.00           0.00          0.00            0.00%
  Total Intergovernmental revenue                            665,953.07       23,962.25       225,000.00     201,037.75           10.65%
  Interest
   3600.100 Interest Earnings                                124,699.10        7,786.14        60,000.00      52,213.86           12.98%
  Total Interest                                             124,699.10        7,786.14        60,000.00      52,213.86           12.98%
  Miscellaneous revenue
   Miscellaneous other
    3600.900 Other Revenue                                     2,064.14               0.00          0.00           0.00            0.00%
    3600.901 Magna 4th of July Event                             701.14               0.00      1,000.00       1,000.00            0.00%
   Total Miscellaneous other                                   2,765.28               0.00      1,000.00       1,000.00            0.00%
  Total Miscellaneous revenue                                  2,765.28               0.00      1,000.00       1,000.00            0.00%
  Contributions and transfers
   3100.001 Operating transfers in                             4,297.34               0.00           0.00          0.00            0.00%
  Total Contributions and transfers                            4,297.34               0.00           0.00          0.00            0.00%
 Total Revenue:                                            1,739,897.51      198,872.64      1,576,000.00   1,377,127.36          12.62%
 Expenditures:
  Administration
   4100.730 Building Maintenance - Webster Center Re               0.00               0.00    660,000.00     660,000.00            0.00%
  Total Administration                                             0.00               0.00    660,000.00     660,000.00            0.00%
  COVID Related Expenses
   4100.243 ARPA Expenses                                    743,468.80        3,200.00              0.00     (3,200.00)           0.00%
  Total COVID Related Expenses                               743,468.80        3,200.00              0.00     (3,200.00)           0.00%
 Total Expenditures:                                         743,468.80        3,200.00       660,000.00     656,800.00            0.48%
Total Change In Net Position                                 996,428.71      195,672.64       916,000.00     720,327.36           21.36%




INTENDED FOR MANAGEMENT USE ONLY                                Page 11                                                 9/4/2025 11:06 AM
Magna City Administration Fund
Yearly Budget                                 8.30%                       7/30/2025
                                        Actual to           FY 2026
Revenues                                7/30/2025            Budget               Projected
Sales taxes                                   500,000         6,050,000              6,050,000
Transportation sales tax                       50,000           525,000                525,000
Class C road funds                                  -         1,250,000              1,250,000
ARPA funding                                        -         1,823,902              1,823,902
Business License                                3,590            50,000                 50,000
Building permits                               25,397         1,525,000              1,525,000
Other permits                                       -            21,000                 21,000
Sewer and water permits                             -             5,000                  5,000
Zoning - land use permit                          100             7,500                  7,500
Engineering services                            3,405            50,000                 50,000
Planning service                                    -           500,000                500,000
Code enforcement fines                            490             5,000                  5,000
Justice court fines                                 -            55,000                 55,000
Interest earnings                               3,250            85,000                 85,000
Miscellaneous                                       -            11,000                 11,000
Transfers in                                1,281,873         1,281,873              1,281,873
Total Revenues                      $      1,868,105    $    13,245,275       $    13,245,275
Expenses - Administration
Wages                                         17,387            443,800                443,800
Employee Benefits                             15,918            140,780                140,780
Awards, promotional & meals                       85              2,000                  2,000
Subscriptions/Memberships                     17,317             27,830                 27,830
Printing/Publications/Advertising                 90              4,000                  4,000
Travel/Mileage                                     -              2,500                  2,500
Cell phone and telephone                         312                  -                  1,000
Office expense and supplies                       52             14,750   *             14,750
Computer equipment/Software                        -              7,500                  7,500
Attorney-Civil                                 4,008             90,000                 90,000
Lobbyist                                       6,000                  -                  6,000
Attorney-Land use                                  -             35,000                 35,000
Training & Seminars                                -              5,000                  5,000
Web page development/Maintenance                   -              9,745                  9,745
Software/Streaming                             1,126             17,500   *             17,500
Payroll processing fees                            -              1,100                  1,100
Communications                                     -             10,000                 10,000
Contribution/Special events                        -            195,700                195,700
Insurance                                     26,963             26,000                 26,963
Workers comp insurance                         3,475              3,750                  3,750
Postage                                        2,523             10,000                 10,000
Professional and technical                     1,197            112,000                112,000
Elections support services                     3,000             82,918                 82,918
ARPA grant expense                                 -          1,823,902              1,823,902
Code enforcement mitigation                    4,851                  -                 10,000
Utilities                                          -             40,000                 40,000
Rent                                           1,170                  -                 12,000
Non classified expenses                            -                  -                      -
Total Administration                $       105,474     $     3,105,775       $     3,135,738
Budget Report Yearly                   8.30%                     7/30/2025
Expenses - Transfers
Contribution to GF                    586,233        9,759,246         9,759,246
Transfer to Capital projects                -          380,254           380,254
Operational transfer out                    -                -                 -
Total Transfers                $     586,233    $   10,139,500   $   10,139,500

Total Expenses                 $     691,707    $   13,245,275   $   13,275,238

Surplus/Deficit                $   1,176,398    $           -    $     (29,963)
Magna City (Designated Fund)
Yearly Budget                             8.30%                      7/30/2025
                                    Actual to          FY 2026
Revenues                            7/30/2025           Budget           Projected
Municipal Energy                               -                 -                500
Municipal Telecom                          6,000            60,000             60,000
Municipal Power                          146,124           600,000            525,000
Municipal Natural Gas                     15,000           600,000            375,000
Google franchise tax                           -            30,000             50,000
Grants                                    23,962                 -            648,438
Corridor preservation                          -           225,000            124,699
ARPA                                           -                 -            124,699
Interest earnings                          7,786            60,000            124,699
Miscellaneous                              7,732             1,000             10,000
Transfers in                                   -                 -              4,297
Total Revenues                  $       206,604    $     1,576,000   $     2,047,332

Expenses - Administration
Magna 4th of July celebration             51,115                 -            648,438
Building Maintenance                           -                 -            648,438
Covid Cares 2                                  -                 -            648,438
ARPA expenses                              3,200                 -              3,200
Total Administration            $         54,315   $             -   $     1,948,514

Surplus/Deficit                 $      152,289     $   1,576,000     $       98,818
Magna City Pleasant Green Cemetery Fund
Yearly Budget                           8.30%                             7/30/2025
                                  Actual to          FY 2026
Revenues                          7/30/2025           Budget           Projected
Sale of lots                                 -            25,000             25,000
Grave openings                           2,050            10,000             10,000
Other revenue                            2,171             5,000              5,000
Transfers In                                 -            40,000             40,000
Total Revenues                $          4,221   $       80,000    $        80,000
Expenses - Administration
Grave opening expenses                     550             1,000              1,000
Cremation expenses                           -             1,500              1,500
Office supplies                              -                 -                  -
Property tax                                 -                 -                  -
Travel/Mileage                               -                 -                  -
Computer equipment/Software                  -             2,500              2,500
Professional and technical               4,702            75,000             75,000
Sundry charges                               -                 -                  -
Total Administration          $          5,252   $       80,000    $        80,000

Total Expenses                $          5,252   $       80,000    $        80,000

Surplus/Deficit               $        (1,031)   $             -   $               -
Magna City Communities that Care Fund
Yearly Budget                               8.30%                               7/30/2025
                                      Actual to            FY 2026
Revenues                              7/30/2025             Budget           Projected
Intergovernmental                                  -                 -                  -
Operating transfers in                             -                 -                  -
State Liquor allotment                             -            25,000             25,000
Grants -Substance Use Disorder                     -           125,000            125,000
Grants - Magna CTC                                 -                 -                  -
Grants- Safety & Success                           -           500,000            500,000
Grants- Youth Court                               24                 -                100
Grants- Youth advocacy                             -                 -                  -
Donations                                          -                 -                  -
Other revenue                                      -            25,000             25,000
Total Revenues                    $               24   $      675,000    $       675,100

Expenses - Administration
Wages                                        3,317              65,000             65,000
Employee Benefits                            1,225              30,000             30,000
Awards                                         413                   -                413
Subscriptions\Memberships                        -                   -                  -
Travel/Mileage                               2,573                   -              2,573
Office Expense and Supplies                     79                   -                 79
Training and seminars                            -                   -                  -
Contractors                                  1,760                   -              1,760
Programs (Afterschool)                         989                   -                989
Communications & PR                              -                   -                  -
Events                                           -                   -                  -
Youth coalition                                  -                   -                  -
Sponsorships                                     -                   -                  -
Safety and success travel                    1,231                   -              1,500
Safety and sub awards                            -             500,000            500,000
Safety & success Youth Court                     -              10,000             10,000
Safety & success other expenses                  -              15,000             15,000
Safety & success contractors                 1,221              30,000             30,000
Beer funds                                       -              25,000             25,000
Reserves                                         -                   -                  -
Total Administration              $         12,808     $      675,000    $       682,314


Total Expenses                    $         12,808     $      675,000    $       682,314

Surplus/Deficit                   $      (12,784)      $             -   $        (7,214)
Magna City CRA Reinvestment Fund
Yearly Budget                          8.30%                              7/30/2025
                                 Actual to           FY 2026
Revenues                         7/30/2025            Budget           Projected
Met Taxes                                    -                 -                  -
General CRA funds                                         25,000                  -
Magna Main                           1,546,784                 -          1,546,784
Housing                                726,931                 -            726,931
Arbor park                             238,014                 -            238,014
Transfers In                                 -                 -                  -
Total Revenues               $      2,511,729    $       25,000    $     2,511,729

Expenses - Administration
General attorney                        1,312                  -             20,000
Park maintenance                          836                  -             12,000
Professional and technical                  -                  -                  -
Utilities - water                           -                  -                  -
Sundry charges                              -             25,000                  -
Total Administration         $          2,148    $       25,000    $        32,000


Total Expenses               $          2,148    $       25,000    $        32,000

Surplus/Deficit              $    2,509,581      $             -   $    2,479,729
