                                  MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                                     September 24, 2024

                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

  PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a business meeting
  on the 24th day of September 2024 at the Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna,
  Utah as follows:

  ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
  of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  Anticipated meeting duration: 1:15

  6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
   1. CALL TO ORDER
   2. Determine Quorum
   3. Pledge of Allegiance

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
          Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
      this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
      Person’s signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
      Comment” form. Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give
      their name for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. To be
      both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help govern public
      meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during public
      comment. However, Magna City staff will be responsible for responding directly to citizens who
      request a response. Should an item on tonight's agenda generate a question you would like
      answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance. Please scan the QR code and send your
      question directly to city staff. The City Council will not interrupt the evening's agenda to take
      questions from the audience once the formal meeting has commenced. Comments should be
      limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the
      Governing Body.

   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
      A. Unified Police Department - Chief Craig & Lieutenant Manwaring (15 minutes)
             i.     Recognition of Police and Fire Departments in Magna Call
      B. Financial Report – Dave Sanderson, Financial Manager (5 minutes)
      C. Pleasant Green Cemetery – Sharon Nicholes (5 minutes)

   6. COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
      A. Magna Yuzawa – Marla Hill (10 minutes)

1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
   7. CONSENT AGENDA
      A. Approve Minutes of June 11, 2024 - Nicole Smedley, City Recorder (5 minutes)

   8. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
      A. Consider Ordinance No. 2024-O-13 Amending Title 12 of the Magna Municipal Code
         Provisions on Code Enforcement and Community Preservation – David Brickey, City
         Manager (7 minutes)
      B. Potential Property Acquisition - David Brickey, City Manager (10 minutes)

   9. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

   10. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
           individual.
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

   11. ADJOURN

      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

      When: September 24, 2024, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

       Register in advance for this webinar at:
   https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ

      After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
   webinar.

        Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
   meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
   Magna City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
   https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
   participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
   reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED:        September 20, 2024




2 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
