                                     MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                      MEETING AGENDA
                                       October 8, 2024

                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

                                                Amended

  PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a meeting on the
  8th day of October 2024 at the Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as
  follows:

  ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
  of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  Anticipated meeting duration: 1:30

  6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
   1. CALL TO ORDER
   2. Determine Quorum
   3. Pledge of Allegiance

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
           Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
      this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
      Person’s signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
      Comment” form. Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give
      their name for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an
      effort to be both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help
      govern public meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during
      public comment. However, Magna City staff will be responsible for responding directly to
      citizens who request a response. Should an item on tonight's agenda generate a question you
      would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance. Please scan the QR code and send
      your question directly to city staff. The City Council will not interrupt the evening's agenda to
      take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has commenced. Comments should
      be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the
      Governing Body.


   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
      A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)
      B. Review and Status of Magna RDA Programs, Dina Blaes, Salt Lake County Regional
         Development (15 minutes)


1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
   6. DISCUSSION ITEMS
      A. Discuss REZ2024-001105 - Jeffrey Copeland is requesting a rezone from the A-1/zc to R-1-5
         on behalf of Habitat for Humanity. Location: 7563 West 2820 South. Acres: 0.5 – Brian
         Tucker, Planning Manager (10 minutes)
      B. Discuss Magna Title 18 Subdivision Revisions – Jay Springer, Smith Hartvigsen (10
         minutes)
      C. Discuss 8000 West Corridor Widening Project– Tolin Hessel, Salt Lake County Engineer &
         Matthew Starley, Long-Ranger Planner II/MSD (10 minutes)
      D. Discuss Amending Title 19: Parking - David Brickey, City Manager (5 minutes)
      E. Discuss Council Fee Waiver or Donation Application – David Brickey, City Manager (5
         minutes)
      F. Discuss 2025 Magna City Council Meeting Dates - David Brickey, City Manager (5 minutes)

   7. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (10 minutes)

   8. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

   9. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
      205
      A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
          individual.
      B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
      C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
      D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
      E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

   10. ADJOURN

      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

      When: October 8, 2024, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

      Register in advance for this webinar:
      https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ

        After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing
   information about joining the webinar.

        Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
   meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
   Magna City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
   https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
   participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
   reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED:        October 3, 2024. Amended Agenda Posted October 7, 2024.


2 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
