                              COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
                                 AGENCY OF MAGNA
                                     AGENDA
                                  November 12, 2024
                                        Webster Center
                                  8952 West Magna Main Street
                                      Magna, Utah 84044

  PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Community Reinvestment Agency (CRA) of
  Magna will hold a business meeting on the 12th day of November 2024 at the Webster Center, 8952
  West Magna Main Street Magna, Utah as follows:

  ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
  of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  Anticipated meeting duration: 30 minutes

  5:30 PM – COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY
  1. CALL TO ORDER
  2. Determine Quorum
  3. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
            Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing
     on this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
     Person’s signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
     Comment” form. Persons addressing the CRA shall step-up to the microphone and give their
     name for the record. The CRA is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an effort to be
     both transparent and responsive, the CRA Board Members cannot respond directly to comments
     during public comment. However, the CRA Executive Director will be responsible for
     responding directly to citizens who request a response. Should an item on tonight's agenda
     generate a question you would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance. Please
     scan the QR code and send your question directly to CRA Staff. The CRA Board will not
     interrupt the evening's agenda to take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has
     commenced. Comments should be limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional
     time is authorized by the Governing Body.

  4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
        a. Approval of the 10/22/24 Minutes – Nicole Smedley, Secretary
        b. Consider Adoption of Resolution 2024-11-01 Approving Community Reinvestment
           Agency Bylaws – David Brickey, Executive Director (5 minutes)
        c. Appoint Agency Officers – David Brickey, Executive Director (5 minutes)

  5. CLOSED SESSIONS AS NEEDED PURSUANT TO UTAH STAE CODE §52-4-205
       a. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health
          of an individual.
       b. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       c. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.

1 | P ag e                         M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
         d. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
         e. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

  6. ADJOURN

      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Community Reinvestment Agency of Magna

      When: November 12, 2024, 05:30 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

       Register in advance for this webinar at:
    https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ

      After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
    webinar.

        Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
   meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
   Magna City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
   https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
   participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
   reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED:        November 8, 2024




2 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
