                                  MAGNA CITY COUNCIL
                                BUSINESS MEETING AGENDA
                                     December 10, 2024

                                         Webster Center
                                   8952 West Magna Main Street
                                       Magna, Utah 84044

  PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Magna City Council will hold a business meeting
  on the 10th day of December 2024 at the Webster Center, 8952 West Magna Main Street Magna,
  Utah as follows:

  ** Portions of the meetings may be closed for reasons allowed by statute. Motions relating to any
  of the items listed below, including final action, may be taken.

  Anticipated meeting duration: 1:10

  6:00 PM – PUBLIC MEETING
   1. CALL TO ORDER
   2. Determine Quorum
   3. Pledge of Allegiance

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS (Limited to 3 minutes per person)
           Any person wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for a public hearing on
      this evening's agenda, should sign-up on the “Public Comment” form located at the entrance.
      Person’s signing up to speak will be called up in the order that they signed-in on the “Public
      Comment” form. Persons addressing the City Council shall step-up to the microphone and give
      their name for the record. The City Council is interested in hearing directly from residents. In an
      effort to be both transparent and responsive, the City Council previously adopted rules to help
      govern public meetings. As such, Councilmembers cannot respond directly to comments during
      public comment. However, Magna City staff will be responsible for responding directly to
      citizens who request a response. Should an item on tonight's agenda generate a question you
      would like answered, there is a QR code at the front entrance. Please scan the QR code and send
      your question directly to city staff. The City Council will not interrupt the evening's agenda to
      take questions from the audience once the formal meeting has commenced. Comments should be
      limited to not more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the
      Governing Body.

   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
      A. Unified Police Department - Chief Del Craig (5 minutes)
      B. Pleasant Green Cemetery – Sharon Nicholes (5 minutes)

   6. CONSENT AGENDA
      A. Approve Minutes of July 9, 2024, Nicole Smedley, Recorder (5 minutes)




1 | P ag e                          M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
   7. COUNCIL BUSINESS: Discussion/Action Items

      A. Discussion and Possible Action to Consider Ordinance 2024-O-16 amending the Magna
         Zoning Ordinance, Title 19 of the Magna Municipal Code, related to residential off-street
         parking regulations (OAM2024-001231 – Applicant: Magna Staff) - Brian Tucker,
         Planning Manager (5 minutes)

      B. Discussion and Possible Action to Consider Ordinance 2024-O-17 Amending Titles 18 and
         19 to replace Magna Township with Magna or Magna City, as appropriate; clarifying when
         infrastructure and public improvements must be installed by a developer subject to the
         limitations on exactions in Utah Code; clarifying that Internal and Attached Dwelling Units
         may only be constructed on single family lots with 6,000 square feet or greater; amending the
         definition of Commercial Vehicles and clarifying the circumstances in which Commercial
         Vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2 zones; clarifying 1 acre minimum for new
         development in the A-1 zone; clarifying that a lot must include 20,000 square feet to have
         "animal rights"; requiring an "all weather surface" in Storage and Salvage Yards; requiring
         trees and landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the street; and adding or clarifying
         definitions for "Off Premise Signs", "Animal Rights", "Alteration", "Clustering",
         "Expansion", "Grading", “Natural Open Space", "Net Developable Acreage", "Retaining
         Wall", "Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream”, “Ephemeral", "Stream”, “Perennial", "Stream
         Corridor", "Substantial economic hardship", "Undevelopable", and "Waiver" (OAM2024-
         001293– Applicant: Magna Staff) - Brian Tucker, Planning Manager (5 minutes)

      C. Discussion and Possible Action to Consider Ordinance 2024-O-18 Establishing Policy and
         Requirements for Solicitation of Funds or Waiver of Fees by Third Parties or Organizations
         from Magna City – Paul Ashton, City Attorney (10 minutes)

      D. Discussion and Possible Action Vacating Dora Street – Paul Ashton, City Attorney (10
         minutes).

      E. Discussion and Possible Action to Consider Resolution No. 2024-12-01 approving an
         Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District to
         Obligate the use of American Rescue Plan Act, (ARPA) Funds to Design, Mobilize, and
         Construct Certain Road and Sidewalk Projects. – David Brickey, City Manager (5 minutes)

   8. MANAGER/CITY ATTORNEY UPDATES (10 minutes)

   9. COUNCIL REPORTS (10 minutes)

   10. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE §52-4-
       205
       A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental health of an
           individual.
       B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
       C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
       D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
       E. Other lawful purposes as listed in Utah Code §52-4-205

   11. ADJOURN

2 | P ag e                        M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
      ZOOM MEETING: Topic: Magna City Council Meeting

      When: December 10, 2024, 06:00 PM Mountain Time (US and Canada)

      Register in advance for this webinar at:
      https://zoom.us/webinar/register/WN_3r3CGOQxSnSF7mFJeJVwgQ

      After registering, you will receive a confirmation email containing information about joining the
      webinar.

        Upon request with three (3) working days’ notice, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
   District, in support of Magna City, will make reasonable accommodations for participation in the
   meeting. To request assistance, please call (385) 468-6703 – TTY 711.

        A copy of the foregoing agenda was posted at the following locations on the date posted below:
   Magna City website at https://magna.utah.gov/ and the Utah Public Notice Website at
   https://www.utah.gov/pmn/. Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Councilmembers may
   participate electronically. Pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205, parts of meetings may be closed for
   reasons allowed by statute.

  POSTED:        December 6, 2024




3 | P ag e                           M a g n a. U t a h . g o v
