                                         Planning and Development Services
                                         2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                         Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                         https://msd.utah.gov/agendas/




                           Magna Planning Commission
                                       Public Meeting Agenda
                                          **AMENDED**
                    Thursday, January 9, 2025 6:30 P.M.
Location
Magna Webster Center
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                        BUSINESS MEETING

    1)   Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2025. (Motion/Voting)
    2)   2025 Planning Commission Meeting Schedule. (Motion/Voting)
    3)   Approval of the November 14, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    4)   Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                    LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

SUB2024-001207 - Maria Ruiz is applying for modified setbacks in a single lot flag lot subdivision. Acres:
0.20. Location: 3154 South 9100 West. Zone: R-1-6. Planner: Justin Smith
(Motion/Voting)

                                        PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2024-001295 – (Continued from November 14, 2024) - Consideration of an ordinance amending
Sections 14.12.060. Sidewalks; 18.12.050. Lots; and 19.50.060. Landscaping of Park Strips; clarifying
language on pavement, turf, plants and ground cover, and trees in park strips. Planner: Brian Tucker
(Discussion/Motion)

                                              ADJOURN



January 9, 2025                                Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – MAGNA
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



January 9, 2025                                                                             AGENDA – MAGNA
                                    Magna City
                                 8952 W Magna Main St
                                   Magna, UT 84044
                                    Phone: (385)258-3690
                                www.magnametrotownship.org


                   Magna City Planning Commission
                            2025 Regular Meeting Schedule

         Meeting Place: Webster Center (8952 W Magna Main St Magna, UT 84044)
                         Time: 6:30PM (Unless otherwise posted)
 Pursuant to State Law and Magna Ordinance, Commissioners may participate electronically.

                             The Public is Welcome to Attend

                                 Thursday January 9, 2025
                               Thursday February 13, 2025
                                 Thursday March 13, 2025
                                 Thursday April 10, 2025
                                  Thursday May 8, 2025
                                 Thursday June 12, 2025
                                  Thursday July 10, 2025
                                Thursday August 14, 2025
                               Thursday September 11, 2025
                                Thursday October 9, 2025
                               Thursday November 13, 2025
                               Thursday December 11, 2025


UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS
FOR QUALIFIED INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR
                AT 385-468-6707. TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.


    The Public May Attend. Meetings May Be Closed For Reasons Allowed By Statute.
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                               MAGNA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                Thursday, November 14, 2024 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 16 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 4                                    found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                     Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Cripps

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                                               Public      Business
                                Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                           Mtg          Mtg
      Dan Cripps (Chair)         x           x
  Ammon Lockwood (Alternate)                           x                      Wendy Gurr                     x            x
   Aaron Weight (Vice Chair)     x           x                                 Jeff Miller                   x            x
        Todd Richards            x           x                                Brian Tucker                   x            x
          Jed Taylor             x           x                                Jay Springer



Commissioner Cripps read the Chairs Opening Statement.

                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:32 p.m.
    1) Approval of the October 3, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
       Motion: To approve the October 3, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting minutes with amendments.
             Motion by: Commissioner Richards
             2nd by: Commissioner Weight
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the business meeting, commissioner Weight seconded that
motion.
                                         LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                         Hearings began at – 6:37 p.m.

SUB2024-001074 – Ross Dinsdale is requesting an Exception to Roadway Standards for road grading for
the proposed Cordero Drive. Location: 8230 West 4100 South. Zone: Planned Community (PC) Zone.
Planner: Jeff Miller (Motion/Voting)


Magna Planning Commission – November 14, 2024 – Meeting Summary                                                    Page 1 of 4
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Jeff Miller provided an analysis of the Staff Report.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding grading, driveways on Cordero drive flipped,
trail loop on left of Cordero on 4100 with very minimal access and safe route, accommodate on street
traffic. Need to construct Cordero by June.

                             PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant – Ivory Development
Name: Ross Dinsdale
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Dinsdale said expect the main road isn’t changing too much. Road gets to 3 ½ percent and
bumping isn’t ideal going into a neighborhood. As the grade gets flatter, entryway natural grade drips down.
Cordero is 35 feet of asphalt, 38 feet curb to curb. Same question on other side of Cordero connecting to
8400 west, potential motion to match on the other side.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded that motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Weight motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Richards seconded that motion.

                             PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application # SUB2024-001074 Ross Dinsdale is requesting an Exception to Roadway
Standards for road grading for the proposed Cordero Drive with staff recommendation and engineering
letter from Jefferson dated November 14th, and the ability to extend to other end of 8400 south subject to
state requirements.
         Motion by: Commissioner Richards
         2nd by: Commissioner Weight
         Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2024-001293 - Proposed ordinance amending Titles 18 and 19 to replace Magna Township with
Magna or Magna City, as appropriate; clarifying when infrastructure and public improvements must be
installed by a developer subject to the limitations on exactions in Utah Code; clarifying that Internal and
Attached Dwelling Units may only be constructed on single family lots with 6,000 square feet or greater;
amending the definition of Commercial Vehicles and clarifying the circumstances in which Commercial
Vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2 zones; clarifying 1 acre minimum for new development in the A-1
zone; clarifying that a lot must include 20,000 square feet to have "animal rights"; requiring an "all weather
surface" in Storage and Salvage Yards; requiring trees and landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the
street; and adding or clarifying definitions for "Off Premise Signs", "Animal Rights", "Alteration",
"Clustering", "Expansion", "Grading", Natural Open Space", "Net Developable Acreage", "Retaining
Wall", "Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream, Ephemeral", "Stream, Perennial", "Stream Corridor", "Substantial
economic hardship", "Undevelopable", and "Waiver". Planner: Brian Tucker (Discussion/Motion)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning Manager Brian Tucker provided an analysis of the
Staff Report.


Magna Planning Commission – November 14, 2024 – Meeting Summary                                   Page 2 of 4
Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding household pets and animal rights.

Commissioner Weight motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Richards seconded that motion.

                             PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Citizen
Name: Mick Sudbury
Address: 8042 West Coon Canyon Way
Comments: Mr. Sudbury asked about previous people that have more than and if this is grandfathered in.

Mr. Tucker said if it was legally established and if you already had animal rights previously, you could still
have them.

Commissioner Weight motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Richards seconded that motion.

                             PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend file #OAM2024-001293 Proposed ordinance amending Titles 18 and 19 to replace
Magna Township with Magna or Magna City, as appropriate; clarifying when infrastructure and public
improvements must be installed by a developer subject to the limitations on exactions in Utah Code;
clarifying that Internal and Attached Dwelling Units may only be constructed on single family lots with
6,000 square feet or greater; amending the definition of Commercial Vehicles and clarifying the
circumstances in which Commercial Vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2 zones; clarifying 1 acre
minimum for new development in the A-1 zone; clarifying that a lot must include 20,000 square feet to
have "animal rights"; requiring an "all weather surface" in Storage and Salvage Yards; requiring trees and
landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the street; and adding or clarifying definitions for "Off Premise
Signs", "Animal Rights", "Alteration", "Clustering", "Expansion", "Grading", Natural Open Space", "Net
Developable Acreage", "Retaining Wall", "Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream, Ephemeral", "Stream, Perennial",
"Stream Corridor", "Substantial economic hardship", "Undevelopable", and "Waiver" to the Magna City
Council for approval with staff recommendations.
        Motion by: Commissioner Richards
        2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


OAM2024-001294 - Consideration of an ordinance amending Section 16.02.340 Glass Requirements in
Overpressure Areas. Planner: Brian Tucker (Discussion/Motion)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning Manager Brian Tucker provided an analysis of the
Staff Report.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding requirements, like for like, tempered, laminated,
or film, explore grandfathering, direct replacement or film added rather than the resident changing the
panes. Mr. Sudbury said the applicant reached out to him and purchased his windows, but the two in the
front are in the blast zone the rest aren’t. Commissioners stated that if any portion of the property was in
the blast zone, it applies to the whole property.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Taylor seconded that motion.



Magna Planning Commission – November 14, 2024 – Meeting Summary                                   Page 3 of 4
                             PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Citizen
Name: Mike Brown
Address: 3628 South Elusive Way
Comments: Mr. Brown said Northrup Grumman is different from ATK. Get the updated current blast zone.
Requirements changed and moved up north.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Teresa Brown
Address: 3628 South Elusive Way
Comments: Ms. Brown said seems ridiculous if replacing windows, they would put better windows in and
are the new homes going in having tempered windows in.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Weight seconded that motion.

                             PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend on file #OAM2024-001294 Consideration of an ordinance amending Section
16.02.340 Glass Requirements in Overpressure Areas to the Magna City Council to allow further study on
glass size and window size for requirements on new construction versus window replacement in the blast
zone.
        Motion by: Commissioner Richards
        2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


OAM2024-001295 - Consideration of an ordinance amending Section 19.50.060. Landscaping of Park
Strips, clarifying language on pavement, turf, plants and ground cover, and trees in park strips. Planner:
Brian Tucker (Discussion/Motion)

Motion: To continue file #OAM2024-001295 Consideration of an ordinance amending Section 19.50.060.
Landscaping of Park Strips, clarifying language on pavement, turf, plants and ground cover, and trees in
park strips to the December 12th meeting.
        Motion by: Commissioner Richards
        2nd by: Commissioner Weight
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
Commissioner Richards adjourned.

                                        MEETING ADJOURNED
                                       Time Adjourned – 7:48 p.m.




Magna Planning Commission – November 14, 2024 – Meeting Summary                                Page 4 of 4
                                                                                                       .



                                                                            Planning and Development Services
                                                                            2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                                            Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                                            msd.utah.gov



                                            Files # SUB2024-001207

                     Flag Lot Setback Modifcation Request Summary

Public Body: Magna Planning Commission
Meeting Date: January 9, 2025
Parcel ID: 14-30-404-030-0000
Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 3154 S 9100 W
Request: Flag Lot Setback Modification
Applicant Name: Maria Ruiz
MSD Planner: Justin Smith
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Planning Commission Approval


PROJECT SUMMARY

The applicant, Maria Ruiz, is looking to create a one lot subdivision from a parcel that was created in the past.
Maria Ruiz is proposing to build a single family home on this lot after the subdivision process is completed.

SITE & ZONE DESCRIPTION

This property is located on the west side of 9100 W. The flag lot has its own parcel already, but was not
originally approved through the subdivision process. It is unclear at what point in time that this parcel was
created or split off from another lot. The applicant has applied for a single lot subdivision approval, which is
currently under review by MSD planning staff per 18.08.010.A of the Magna City Code.
        Request: Flag Lot Setback Modification                                    File #: SUB2024-001207




ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION

The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and reviewing agencies have reviewed the application and the
proposed subdivision and the only point of concern is that the front yard is being proposed to have more than
50% coverage. A technical review will still be required for the subdivision application as well as the site plan.


PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

Review Criteria

Flag lot standards for the R-1 zones are in 19.46.180. Flag lots have different lot size and setback requirements
that are covered in the “Lot Area” section of this staff report.

Any access must comply with the requirements of Chapter 18. Accesses under 130 feet long are required to be a
minimum of 12 feet wide and the proposed access width is 13 feet until the first concrete parking area. The
access drive borders the subdivision boundary on both sides and as part of the landscaping requirement a buffer


Rezone Summary                                                                                           Page 2 of 3
         Request: Flag Lot Setback Modification                                  File #: SUB2024-001207
would be required along the access. The applicant is proposing a five foot landscaping buffer with a solid visual
barrier fence along the exterior property line and must include one tree and four shrubs for every 25 linear feet.

The R-1-6 zone limits the amount of impervious surface between any property line and the main structure to a
maximum of 50%. The front yard in front of the building is roughly 950 sq ft with roughly 650 feet being
proposed to be concrete. This would have to be reduced by limiting the amount of impervious surface.

Lot Area

For a typical lot the minimum required lot size in the R-1-6 zone is 6,000 square feet. The Title 18 and Title 19
updates have changed the lot size requirements for flag lots. Flag lots that have an access within the property
lines, as opposed to having an access easement, are required to have a lot size that is 1.5 times the normal
requirement. For the R-1-6 zone this would require a minimum lot size of 9,000 square feet. This lot is 8,146
square feet in size and does not meet the existing lot size requirements. Exceptions from the minimum lot size
are granted by the land use authority as designated by Title 18, which for subdivisions of 5 or less lots would be
the Planning Director or Designee. The lot does meet the minimum lot width at approximately 63 feet in width.

Setbacks

The typical setbacks for the R-1-6 zone would be 25 feet to the front and to the rear. The typical side yard setback
requirements are 8 feet on both sides or 11 feet on one side and 5 feet on the other. Flag lots have differing
setback standards from other lots and are required to have at minimum a 20 foot setback to all sides. Title 18
grants the Planning Commission the ability to modifty those required setbacks, but cannot grant a setback of less
than 10 feet in any direction. The applicant’s proposed setbacks on the civil site plan showed 25 feet to the front
and rear, 10 feet to the south side, and 20 feet to the north side setback, totalling 80 feet (which is required).

The Magna Planning Commission is the decision making body for flag lot setbacks in Magna. Based on the above
analysis, MSD staff has found that the proposal is consistent with the surrounding land uses as well as the general
plan. Full compliance with required ordinances and policies will be verified through the subsequent technical
review process.


PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Based on the findings stated above, the MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning
Commission approve the proposed modified yard requirements for the subdivision subject to the following
conditions:

        1. The applicant be required to follow the requirements of Chapter 18 and Chapter 19.
        2. The applicant be required to comply with the requirements from all reviewing agencies.

ATTACHMENTS:
   A. Site Plan
   B. Plat




Rezone Summary                                                                                           Page 3 of 3
                                                        Zt/E'EKd^͗




                                                                               dd>




                                        ϵϭϬϬt^d
                                                                                  >'E




                                                         ϯ                     ^>KD^KDDEd               ϭϮͬϮͬϮϰ
                                                         Ϯ                 D'EtdZKDDEd                ϵͬϭϵͬϮϰ
                                                         ϭ                 D'EtdZKDDEd                ϵͬϭϲͬϮϰ
                                                        EK͘                        Zs/^/KE                    d

                                                        WZK:d/E&KZDd/KE




                                                          ^/d͕'Z/E'͕Θhd/>/dzW>E
                                                                 ϯϭϱϰ^Khd,ϵϭϬϬt^d
Z/stzZK^^^d/KE   Z/sWWZK,ZK^^^d/KE                D'E͕hd,
                                                        ZtE                  ,<            WZK:dη
                                                              dD                  D                  ϮϰϬϲϰ
                                                                                         d

                                                                                                  ϵͬϲͬϮϰ
                                                                                         ^>

                                                                                                  ϭΗсϭϬΖ
                                                                  12/02/2024
                                                                                         ^,d


                                                              E'/EZΖ^^dDW
                                                                                                   ϮϬϭ
                                                                                                                                                         SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NA L      S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     UR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No. 6269078




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         YOR
                                                                                                                                                                      RUIZ SUBDIVISION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHAD D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HALL




                                                                                                                                                                                                               IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9-6-24




                                                                                                                                                                                                             IM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AT E       AH




                                                                                                                                                                                                          EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OF U T




                                                                                                                                                                                                        PR
                                                                                                                                                         12/2/24



                                                                                                                                                         BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION:




                                                                                                                                                         BASIS OF BEARING:




                                                                                                                                                         OWNER'S DEDICATION


                                                                                                                                                                               RIUZ SUBDIVISION




                                                                                        9100 WEST STREET
                                                                                         (PUBLIC STREET)
                                             LOT 1




                                                                                                                                                         NOTARY PUBLIC ACKNOWLEDGEMENT



                                                                                                                                      VICINITY MAP




                                                                                                                                       PROJECT
                                                                                                                                       SITE




                                                                                                                                                 MAGNA




                                                                                                                                                         LEGEND
                                                                                                                                            N.T.S.
                       ENBRIDGE GAS




                                                                                                                                  OWNER/DEVELOPER

                                                                                                                                                                   LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER OF SECTION 30,
                                                                                                                                                                          TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 2 WEST,
MAGNA WATER DISTRICT   COUNTY HEALTH DEPT.           COMCAST      CENTURYLINK   ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY      APPROVAL AS TO FORM                         SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                         MAGNA CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH

                                                                                                                                                                       SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER

 ZONING COMPLIANCE         ADDRESSING          RECORD OF SURVEY                      PLAN CHECK            PLANNING COMMISSION      TABULATIONS
                                           Planning Commission Staff Report
Meeting Body: Magna Planning                         BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Commission
                                        The ordinances concerning park strips, what a developer must
Meeting Date: January 9 , 2025
                          th
                                        build and what an adjoining land owner must maintain, are found
File Number & Project Type:             in a number of different parts of Magna’s Municipal Code. Title 14
OAM2024-001295-          2024           includes standards concerning sidewalks and park strips; Title 18
Magna Park Strip Amendments             includes requirements for the development of subdivision lots
Applicability: Citywide                 and the adjoining streetscape, including requirements for street
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning         lighting; and Title 19 includes landscaping requirements,
Manager                                 including specific standards for street trees and landscaping in
Applicant: Magna Staff
                                        park strips. Additionally, the adopted standards and specifications
                                        include standard drawings for street cross sections, the
Key Findings:
                                        construction of sidewalks, including pedestrian ramps, and street
• Magna City has an interest in         light design. The existing ordinances generally allow Staff to
  ensuring that streetscapes are
                                        require developers to construct street improvements that include,
  constructed in a uniform and
                                        4’ sidewalks, 5’ park strips, 1 street tree for every 25’ of street
  aesthetically pleasing manner to
  facilitate       long      term       frontage, and street lights. Where double fronting lots rear on
  maintenance.                          collector or arterial lots a developer must install a decorative
• It is in the City’s interest to       masonry wall to separate the home from the major street. Park
  ensure that walls, street trees       strips are generally not allowed to be paved unless they are
  and stamped concrete are              adjacent to a major street or less than 5’ wide. Park strips must
  installed so that the City may
                                        include at least 30% live plant material in addition to the street
  maintain these streetscapes in a
                                        trees and turf is prohibited in park strips less than 8’ wide. Where
  cost effective manner.
                                        paving of a park strip is allowed, it must be stamped and colored,
Staff Recommendation: The
                                        red with a brick pattern. Alternative stamp templates and colors
MSD Planning Staff recommend
that   the   Magna    Planning
                                        are allowed upon request.
Commission recommend that the                               PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Council approve the attached
ordinance.                              Based on conversations with the Mayor and Engineering Staff,
Exhibits:                               Planning Staff have created an ordinance that:

    A. Proposed Ordinance               - Ties the separate portions of the various streetscape related
                                        ordinances together with references to help a developer or citizen
                                        more easily find the requirements for park strips;




                               [OAM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / January 9, 2025] | Page 1 of 3
   -    Requires a 5’ wide sidewalk and a 5’ wide park strip to encourage and better facilitate
        pedestrian use and the installation of street trees;

   -    Requires developers to install decorative masonry fences on corner lots where the side
        yard, corner lot is adjacent to a collector or arterial. This requirement it specifically
        limited in length to ensure that the clear view triangle remains unobstructed;

   -    Clarifies that pavement in the park strip is prohibited except in certain limited
        circumstances, including when an existing park strip is less than 5’ wide;

   -    Requires that when pavement is installed in a park strip, it must be with stamped
        concrete, using an Ashlar Slate pattern with a grey/brown color;

   -    Allows the use of grey or brown bricks or paving stones in some circumstances,
        including residential applications;

   -    Allows landscaping of park strips along collector of arterial streets where a masonry
        wall has been installed only when a maintenance agreement between Magna and a
        homeowners association or special service district is in place; and

   -    Requires tree grates to be installed along with the required street trees where the park
        strip is otherwise paved.

                                 STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

   1. Magna City has an interest in ensuring that streetscapes are constructed in a uniform
      and aesthetically pleasing manner to facilitate long term maintenance;

   2. Because they are not easily accessed by adjacent property owners, park strips and
      walls/fences along arterial and collector streets are difficult for those property owners
      to maintain. It is in the City’s interest to ensure that walls, street trees and stamped
      concrete are installed so that the City may maintain these streetscapes in a cost
      effective manner; and

   3. Tree grates help to protect street trees when located in areas where impervious
      surfaces make up the majority of the street scape.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Magna Planning Commission recommend that
the Council approve the attached ordinance. Staff also recommend that the Planning
Commission recommend that the Council consider how street trees along collector and
arterial roads will be maintained, especially when the street trees are not yet established.


                    [OAM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / January 9, 2025] | Page 2 of 3
[OAM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / January 9, 2025] | Page 3 of 3
14.12.060 Sidewalks

A. Sidewalks shall be located as far as practical from travel lanes. As the minimum
   standard, concrete sidewalks shall be five four feet (5’) in width with a five foot (5’)
   parkutility strip between the roadway edge of sidewalk and back of curb.
B. A five-foot (5’) sidewalk will be allowed required integral with the back of curb where
   exceptional topographic conditions exist. Where integral sidewalk is permitted, the
   right-of-way may be reduced accordingly.
C. Park strips shall be landscaped and maintained in accordance with Section 19.50.060.
D. Double Fronting Lots. Where lots rear on a public street, the developer must install a
   decorative masonry wall along the right of way, at the property side of the sidewalk,
   subject to Sections 18.14.170 and 19.50.060. When properties are adjacent, but do
   not access or front on public right-of-way, a stamped brick pavement in the utility strip
   or other suitable approved finishing material shall be required to reduce maintenance
   in these areas unless a homeowners association or special service district is provided.
E. In areas zoned R-1-43 and other developments which have an average minimum lot
   area of one acreone-acre, aesthetic alternatives may be approved in lieu of standard
   concrete, except areas along collectors and arterials. The public works
   engineerMunicipal Engineering Division shall review and approve all design and
   geometric standards for such requests.
18.12.050 Lots

E. Double Fronting Lots.
   1. Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shall be prohibited, except where they
      may be essential to provide separation of single-family or duplex residential
      development from fronting on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific
      disadvantage or hardship imposed by topography or other factors. Such double
      frontage lots allowed within the municipality shall be constructed to the adopted
      engineering design standards.
   2. Where lots have double frontage, are not screened, and/or are provided access
      directly onto an arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each
      street side.
   3. Lots in single-family or duplex residential subdivisions and lots measuring less than
      one hundred feet (100’) wide and located within multifamily residential subdivisions
      may abut a street on both the front and rear boundaries, but only under the
      following conditions:
          a. One lot boundary must abut a collector street, arterial street or freeway;
          b. No access to the abutting arterial street or freeway. The administrative land
             use authority may require a reservation, easement or other condition of
             approval to ensure that no right of access is given; and
          c. The administrative land use authority may require that a parkway at the rear
             of a double frontage lot be landscaped, or other aesthetic treatment be
             provided by the subdivider, subject to the approval of the Planning
             Commission to provide a visual and physical separation between the
             development and the street.

   4. Double fronting lots must include a park strip in accordance with Sections
      14.12.060 and 19.50.060(E)(3), and a decorative masonry wall in accordance with
      Section 18.14.170. When a street facing side yard, corner lot is adjacent to
      collector or arterial streets, the street landscaped park strip and decorative
      masonry wall shall be extended along the side yard, corner lot frontage subject to
      Subsection 19.46.120.(E) Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. The Municipal
      Engineering Division may permit an extended clear view area subject to adopted
      municipal standards.
19.50.060 Landscaping of Park Strips

A. Landscaping Responsibility. Although park strips are part of the public right-of-way, it
   is the responsibility of the property owner immediately adjacent to a park strip to
   provide basic maintenance of that park strip. This responsibility includes the
   establishment and maintenance of landscaping that conforms to these regulations.
B. Irrigation. It is the responsibility of the adjacent property owner to provide regular and
   adequate watering to ensure the health of park strip landscaping. If the adjacent
   property is irrigated, the irrigation system shall be extended to include the park strip,
   exceptions must be approved by the City Engineer.
C. Applicability.
   1. Any new development shall provide park strip landscaping in conformance with
      these regulations.
   2. Existing development is not required to provide park strip landscaping, except
      where the provisions of Section 19.50.020 apply.
   3. Any new park strip landscaping done in conjunction with existing development
      shall conform to these regulations.
D. Landscape Plans. For all new development, park strips shall be shown on all
   landscape plans for approval.
E. Pavement in Park Strips. Pavement within a park strip is prohibited, except as follows:
1. A paved pedestrian walkway up to five feet (5’) in width is allowed across any park
   strip.
2. Hardscape or an alternative form of landscaping is allowed in existing park strips
   of less than five feet (5’) in depth, as measured from the back of curb to the
   sidewalk, upon approval of the Municipal Engineer. Hardscape may consist of
   permeable or impermeable concrete stamped with an Ashlar Slate pattern with a
   grey or brown color. Grey or brown bricks or paving stones may also be used.
3. Paving in park strips with a depth, as measured from the back of curb to the
   sidewalk, of five feet (5’) or greater is only allowed when the maintenance of
   landscaping is impractical due to site topography, lack of direct access, traffic
   patterns, or other such factors and is subject to approval by the Director or
   Designee.
4. The pavement allowed in Subsections 19.50.060.E. 2 and 3 shall consist of
   decorative stamped concrete, removable brick, or paving stones.

3. Double Fronting Lots and Side Yard, Corner Lots. Where a street facing side or
   rear yard is adjacent to a collector or arterial street, and no access is permitted to
   the collector or arterial street, the following standards shall apply:

   a. A park strip must be installed that is at least five feet (5’) wide between the
      roadway edge of sidewalk and back of curb.

   b. Street trees shall be installed in accordance with subsection 19.50.060.(G).

   c. A decorative masonry wall shall be installed along the entire frontage of the
      collector or arterial subject to Section 18.14.170. Fencing Requirements, and
      Subsection 19.46.120.(E) Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. The
      Municipal Engineering Division may permit an extended clear view area subject
      to APWA and adopted municipal standards.

   c. Live plant material other than the required street trees is appropriate only where
      a homeowner’s association or special service district will provide adequate
      maintenance. A maintenance agreement must be entered into with Magna prior
      to the installation of the park strip landscaping. Turf may only be installed in a
      part strip that is at least eight feet (8’) wide.

   d. Unless live plant material is installed in accordance with Subsection
      19.50.060.(3)(c)., stamped concrete shall be installed within a park strip. The
      stamped concrete must consist of an Ashlar Slate stamp pattern and
      grey/brown color.
       e. Tree grates (wells) with adequate dimensions to accommodate the tree species
          are required for trees in which the surrounding park strip consists of an
          impervious surface.

F. Plants.
   1. The type of plants used in park strip landscaping shall be at the discretion of the
      adjacent property owner, subject to these regulations. The use of water efficient
      standards as outlined in Section 19.50.030, Landscape Irrigation and Efficient
      Water Usage, is required.
   2. Lawn is prohibited in areas less than eight feet (8’) wide. The use of drought-
      tolerant plants is encouraged.
   3. No less than thirty percent (30%) of the ground area of a park strip may be covered
      by plants, not including tree canopies. These plants may include evergreen or
      deciduous groundcover, herbaceous plants, or shrubs that do not exceed a mature
      height of eighteen inches (18”). No plant may create a visibility obstruction for
      motorists.
G. Trees in Park Strips. One (1)deciduous tree shall be planted in the park strip area for
   every twenty-five (25) linear feet of lot frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.
   Park strips less than five feet (5’) wide as measured from curb to sidewalk are not
   subject to this requirement. All trees shall be planted in the center of the width of the
   park strip.
   1. Trees Prohibited for Park Strips. Any tree or shrub that could conflict with the safe
      use of the right-of-way is prohibited in the park strip. Some of these trees include:
       a. Box Elder – Acer negundo
       b. Silver Maple – Acer saccharinum
       c. Tree of Heaven – Ailantus altissima
       d. River Birch – Betula nigra
       e. Russian Olive – Eleagnus angustifolia
       f. Poplar (all, includes Cottonwood) – Populus spp.
       g. Quaking Aspen – Populus tremuloides
       h. Flowering Plum – Prunus cerasifera
       i.   Pin Oak – Quercus palustris
       j.   Idaho Locust – Robina x ambigua ‘Idahoensis’
       k. Willow (all) – Salix spp.
   l.   Siberian Elm – Ulmus pumila
2. Trees Recommended for Park Strips.
   a. Paperbark Maple – Acer Griseum
   b. Tatarian Maple, single stemmed – Acer tatrium
   c. Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
   d. Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn – Crataegus crus-galli var. inermis
   e. La Valle Hawthorn – Crataegus x lavallei ‘Carrier’
   f. Amur Maakia – Maackia amurensis
   g. Fruitless Crabapple – Malus, ioensis ‘Klem’s Improved’ or ‘Spring Snow’, etc.
   h. Eastern redbud – Cercis Canadensis
   i.   Blackhaw Viburnum – Viburnum prunifolium
3. Trees Appropriate for Use Under Powerlines.
   a. Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
   b. Seedless Ash – Fraxinum pennsylvatica lanceolata ‘Marshall Seedless’
   c. Thornless Honeylocust – Gleditsia tricanthos var. inermis ‘Imperial’
   d. Goldenrain Tree – Koelreuteria paniculate
   e. Crabapple spp – Malus ioensis ‘Spring Snow,’ ‘Snow Drift,’ ‘Centurion,’ and
      ‘Zumi’
   f. Callery Pear – Pyrus calleriana ‘Aristocrat,’ Chanticleer’,’ and ‘Redspire’
   g. Japanese Pagodatree – Sophora japonica ‘Regent’
   h. Wireless zelkova serrulata
4. Other species of trees may be used, subject to review and approval by the Director
   or Designee.
