                                          Planning and Development Services
                                          860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 • Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                          Phone: (385) 910-5600




                           Magna Planning Commission
                                         Public Meeting Agenda
                                            **AMENDED**
                   Thursday, October 16, 2025, 6:30 P.M.
Location
Magna Webster Center
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-391-8268.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.

                                         BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of September 11, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                         PUBLIC HEARING(S)

REZ2025-001480 - Jose Rodriguez is requesting a rezone from C-3/zc to C-1. Acres: 1.3. Location: 2646
South 7200 West, 2648 South 7200 West. Planner: Justin Smith (Discussion/Recommendation)

OAM2025-001490 – General Plan update to adopt the Water Element Plan. Planner: Matt Starley
(Discussion/Recommendation)

OAM2025-001507 - Consideration of an ordinance amending Title 18 Subdivisions and Title 19 Zoning
to: eliminate reclamation bond requirements; bring performance and warranty bond procedures, and final
disposition and release requirements into compliance with recent legislation; eliminate fees in lieu of the
installation of subdivision improvements; eliminate the requirement for any entity to sign construction plans
if that entity cannot be required to sign a final plat under Utah Code; allow a driveway up to 27’ wide in
lots between 40’ and 50’ wide; and eliminate language allowing the City to withhold permits or occupancy
for the failure to install private landscaping. Planner: Brian Tucker (Discussion/Recommendation)

                                                ADJOURN

October 16, 2025                                 Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – MAGNA
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



October 16, 2025                                                                             AGENDA – MAGNA
                                                    Zone Change Staff Report

Meeting     Body:        Planning                               DESCRIPTION
Commission or Council               Jose Rodriguez is requesting to rezone two adjoining properties at 2646-
Meeting Date: October 16th, 2025    2648 S 7200 W from C-3/zc to C-1 to accommodate his “vehicle sales and
                                    service” business, because Magna’s current C-3 zone (being a legacy
File Number & Project Type:
                                    zone) no longer allows auto sales.
REZ2025-001480
                                                        SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION
Current Zone: C-3/zc

Proposed Zone: C-1                    Surrounding Zoning and Use
                                      North     A-1/zc, School
Address: 2646 S 7200 W, 2648 S
                                      South     A-1, residential and one vacant property, C-3 dealership
7200 W
                                      East      Residential, West Valley City
Planner: Justin Smith, Planner        West      A-1, residential and drainage
Applicant: Jose Rodriguez
                                    (West of 7200 W between Entheos Academy and Golden Metal Auto)

Exhibits:

    A. Letter of intent
    B. Site Map
    C. Legal Description




                             REZ2025-001480/Rodriguez Rezone Request/Date: October 16, 2025 | Page 1 of 4
                                  GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
These two properties are located in the Northeast Neighborhoods area of Magna. The northeast
neighborhoods area calls for a mix of residential and job creating uses. The general plan calls for the job
creating uses to be north of Entheos Academy and within the Inland Port boundary.
The future land use plan designates the future land use of this property as medium density residential.
The Magna General Plan calls for a residential density of 12 units per acre and a prohibition of
commercial uses. However, the “Catalyst Areas & Economic Stability” section of the plan also
emphasizes “…it is important to retain and expand high-quality businesses that can lend to the
economic success of the Municipality.”(pg. 51)
                            APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION
Table 19.16.080 includes the following guidelines a planning commission and Council may consider in
deciding zoning map and text amendments:

GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS

1. The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.

2. The proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety and welfare.

3. The proposed amendment is a more suitable zoning classification for the property than the current
classification.

4. The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of this Ordinance.


5. The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to existing requirements,
or reflects a change in policy.

6. The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality as a whole.

7. The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of nonconformities.

8. The proposed amendment is compatible with the trend of development, if any, in the general area
of the property in question.


                                              PUBLIC INPUT
One of the reviewing engineers noted that these two properties are accessed from the south by the used
auto dealership that also has its own parcel. One is owned by JR1 LLC and the other is owned by JRI LLC
according to the information from Salt Lake County Tax Assessor. The applicant has since stated he does
in fact own the property to the south with the dealership.




                       REZ2025-001480/Rodriguez Rezone Request/Date: October 16, 2025 | Page 2 of 4
Planning Staff has not received any comments from the surrounding neighbors or the general public as of
the completion of this staff report. Any comments that are received will be forwarded to the Planning
Commission.

                                SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATION
Summary of issues:

General Plan

The Magna General Plan calls for this area to be medium residential. The medium density residential
character area calls for residential development up to 12 dwelling units per acre, and while it does not
show commercial uses in this particular area, one of the future land use recommendations of the plan is
to, “Enhance existing and future commercial nodes to allow higher density residential development,
improve walkability, connect the commercial areas to surrounding neighborhoods, and increase retail
square footage.” The existing auto dealership has been allowed to continue due to the previous
dealership having not abandoned their property/use.

The property to the south has an access that is used to access all three of these properties. A reviewing
engineer noted that he may not be the owner of that property, but the applicant has stated that they
own the property as agent for JR1 LLC and JRI LLC and provided documentation to that effect.

This rezone is compatible with the current land use, although it does not conform to the mapped
“medium density residential” designation on the future land use map of the general plan. The current
zone C-3 had its uses greatly restricted with the code updates in 2023. The zoning condition on this
property removes all of the conditional uses except for auto sales.

The proposed zone change from C-3/zc to C-1 would be more compatible with the existing zone. The C-3
zone has very few permitted uses and the zoning conditions restricts the conditional uses to only auto
sales. The C-1 zone would allow for more use of the property.

The proposed amendment is compatible with the goal of fostering economic development in allowing
various other commercial uses to potentially occupy the property in the future because the C-1 would
allow for a wider range of uses to be permitted on this property.

Findings and Recommendation:

Planning staff finds that the property is an existing commercial business and that the adopted general
plan encourages the continuation of the existing commercial base in Magna.

Staff also finds that although the general plan shows the subject property within an overall medium
density residential community, based on the property’s frontage on a gateway road into Magna with a
school to the north and commercial property to the south, redevelopment of the property into a
residential use is neither practical nor desirable for this area.

In addition, the zoning ordinance adopted by Magna City in 2023 contains specific use standards and
development standards that will apply to future commercial uses and/or redevelopment of the property
to accommodate commercial uses other than the exiting auto sales and service business.

Planning staff therefore recommends approval of the application as proposed.

                       REZ2025-001480/Rodriguez Rezone Request/Date: October 16, 2025 | Page 3 of 4
                              PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
As a recommending body to the Council for zoning map amendments and text changes, the planning
commission has the following options:

   1. Approval: The planning commission recommends approval of rezone application REZ2025-
      001480 to change the zone at 2646-2648 S 7200 W from C-3/zc to C-1.
   2. Approval with conditions: The planning commission recommends approval of rezone
      application REZ2025-001480 to change the zone at 2646-2648 S 7200 W C-3/zc to C-1 with the
      following zoning conditions:
           a. [Condition #1]
           b. [Condition #2, etc.]
   3. Denial: Having considered the Guidelines for Zoning Map Amendments contained in Chapter
      19.16 of the Magna City zoning ordinance, the planning commission recommends denial of
      application REZ2025-001480 to change the zone at 2646-2648 S 7200 W from C-3/zc to C-1.




                     REZ2025-001480/Rodriguez Rezone Request/Date: October 16, 2025 | Page 4 of 4
                                                       Ordinance Amendment
Meeting Body: Magna Planning                                  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Commission
                                       The proposed action is the adoption of the Water Use & Preservation
Meeting Date: October 16th, 2025       Element as a new chapter of the Magna General Plan. This update is
File Number & Project Type:            required by Utah Code §10-9a-403 and ensures that the City coordinates
OAM2025-001490                         land use planning with available water resources. The Water Use &
                                       Preservation Element documents existing supply, projected future
This amendment adopts the Water
                                       demand, and establishes conservation strategies. Adoption will impact all
Use & Preservation Element as a new
chapter of the Magna General Plan,     properties in Magna by ensuring new and existing development is
ensuring compliance with state law     supported by sustainable water resources.
and aligning future land use with
                                                                 ISSUES/CONCERNS
available water resources and
conservation goals.                    Issue 1: State Law Compliance
Planner: Matthew Starley               Analysis: Utah Code requires municipalities to adopt a General Plan
Applicant: N/A                         Water Use & Preservation Element. Without it, the City risks
                                       noncompliance. Adoption addresses this by providing an up-to-date
Key Findings:
                                       element with provider coordination, supply and demand modeling, and
     Finding 1: Adoption of the        conservation strategies.
Water Use & Preservation Element is
required under Utah Code §10-9a-       Issue 2: Growth And Water Demand
403.
                                       Analysis: Projected growth could increase water demand. The Water Use
    Finding 2: Projected growth can    & Preservation Element demonstrates that even at full build-out, per
be supported by existing and
                                       capita demand remains within regional conservation goals. Land use
planned water supplies if
conservation goals are met.            policies and water-wise ordinances provide tools to maintain efficiency.

    Finding 3: The Element aligns      Issue 3: Regional Water Conservation
the General Plan with sustainability
                                       Analysis: The health of the Great Salt Lake and regional air quality are
and resource management goals.
                                       tied to water conservation. The Water Use & Preservation Element
Staff Recommendation: Staff
                                       strengthens Magna’ local landscaping standards, tiered rates, and
recommends the Planning
                                       coordination with water providers to reduce waste at the community
Commission forward a
recommendation of approval of the      level, while also advancing shared regional goals.
Water Use & Preservation Element
as an amendment to the Magna
General Plan.
Exhibits: Magna Water Element Draft




       Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                       Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 1 of 3
                               GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The proposed amendment adopts the Water Use & Preservation Element as a new component and
chapter of the Magna General Plan. While not previously included, this Element is required under Utah
Code §10-9a-403 and will serve as an addition to the adopted General Plan (March 23, 2021).

The Element draws upon the Future Land Use Map (pp. 28–35, Magna General Plan, 2021) to model
anticipated growth and ensure it can be supported with available water resources. Adoption aligns the
General Plan with state law and strengthens the Plan’s goals for sustainability, resource management,
and coordinated land use planning.

                         APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION
Table 19.16.080 includes the following guidelines a planning commission and Council may consider in
deciding zoning map and text amendments:

GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS

The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.

The proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety and welfare.

The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of this Ordinance.


The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to existing requirements, or
reflects a change in policy.

The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality as a whole.

The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of nonconformities.



                                           PUBLIC INPUT
Planning Staff has not received any comments from the public as of the completion of this staff report.
Any comments that are received will be forwarded to the Magna Planning Commission for review and will
be summarized on October 16th, 2025.

                              ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION
Analysis and Summary:

The proposed amendment adopts the Water Use & Preservation Element as a new chapter of the
Magna General Plan, fulfilling the requirements of Utah Code §10-9a-403. This Element was drafted in
coordination with the Magna Water District (MWD) and Jordan Valley Water Conservation District




Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                    Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 2 of 3
(JVWCD) to ensure that anticipated growth reflected in the Future Land Use Map can be supported by
available water resources.

Key issues included ensuring compliance with state law, addressing long-term conservation goals, and
coordinating land use with provider capacity. During the drafting process, staff incorporated feedback
from providers and key stakeholders, integrated updated water conservation goals, and aligned
ordinance references with the City’s adopted landscaping standards. The Element demonstrates that
projected demand at full build-out remains within regional conservation targets, and that ongoing
ordinance updates, conservation programs, and interagency coordination will maintain system
reliability.

Recommendation:

Staff recommends the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval of the Water Use &
Preservation Element as an amendment to the Magna General Plan.

                               PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
As a recommending body to the Council for zoning map amendments and text changes, the planning
commission has the following options:

    1. Approval: The planning commission recommends approval of application OAM2025-001490 to
       adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional chapter to the General Plan.
    2. Approval with changes: The planning commission recommends approval of application
       OAM2025-001490 to adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional chapter to
       the General Plan.
    3. Denial: Having considered the Guidelines for Zoning Text Amendments contained in Chapter
       19.16 of the City of Magna zoning ordinance, the planning commission recommends denial of
       application OAM2025-001490 to adopt the Water Use & Preservation Element as an additional
       chapter to the General Plan.




Ordinance Amendment: OAM2025-001490                                     Date: 09/19/2025 | Page 3 of 3
WATER




        WATER   1
         MAGNA CITY WATER ELEMENT
         The General Plan Water Element is an opportunity for the
         municipalities in the state to coordinate their land use with         WATER RESOURCES
         the supply and conservation goals of their water providers.
         Magna is unique in its proximity to the Great Salt Lake, and as a     WATER RESOURCES TODAY
         municipality that still has significant amounts of vacant land. The
         potential for change in land use, and its location in the region      The Magna Water District serves the
         make water considerations especially important for the City. The      majority of the developed city and some
         Water Element highlights what water resources are currently           surrounding areas within West Valley and
         available to the City’s Water providers and what will be needed       unincorporated Salt Lake County. Magna
         based on the changes that the General Plan’s Future Land Use          Water District sources water from a variety
         map and other policies emphasize.                                     of wells, wholesale contracts, and irrigation
                                                                               companies.
         A crucial component of understanding the state of water in the
         City is to engage the City’s providers. In the development of this    Magna Water District provides culinary
         water element Magna Water District and Jordan Valley Water            water to 10,771 connections and 34,476
         Conservancy District were consulted in a series of meetings.          people (Division of Water Rights, 2024).
         Magna’s water providers were able to contribute key information       Magna Water District serves 1,444
         regarding existing conditions within the service areas, especially    secondary connections within the service
         water availability, and how much water has been vetted by             area covering approximately 565.16 acres
         providers for potential future use. They were also key partners       (Division of Water Rights, 2024). All
         in contributing to the goals and policies that are articulated in     secondary water use is for lawn and garden;
         this chapter. Land use decisions affect water usage, and land         none is used for agricultural purposes.
         use choices should align with the agencies that provide this vital    Magna Water District sources secondary
         service.                                                              water from three shallow wells (Well No.
                                                                               1-3) and purchases irrigation water from
         This water element fulfills the requirements identified in State      Kennecott Utah Copper and several canal
         Law 10-9a-403 including the following objectives:                     companies.

         1.   Analyze the effect of permitted development or patterns of       The sources that sustain Magna’s culinary
              development on water demand and water infrastructure.            and secondary water are described in
                                                                               Table 1. Existing Water Sources and Table
         2. Consider methods of reducing water demand and per capita           2. Future Water Sources. The district has
            water use for existing development.                                an available annual capacity of 10,277
                                                                               ac-ft. (2025, Magna Water Master Plan)
         3. Consider methods of reducing water demand and per capita           combined culinary and secondary water
            water use for future development.                                  today and an additional 5,363 ac-ft. of
         4. Evaluate modifications that can be made to a local                 water available in the future, primarily new
            government’s operations to reduce and eliminate wasteful           secondary water sources.
            water practices.                                                   The City accounts for 93% of the parcels
                                                                               within the Magna Water District Service
         Thank you to our collaborators:                                       Area, with West Valley City accounting
                                                                               for approximately 7%. West Valley parcels
         •    Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
                                                                               within the service boundary have a higher
         •    Magna Water District                                             rate of vacancy, which may indicate more
                                                                               development in the next several years and
                                                                               thus a higher share of the water needed to
                                                                               support growth. For the purposes of this
                                                                               plan element, analysis uses a consistent
                                                                               ratio over time, however, additional
                                                                               coordination with the district may be
                                                                               necessary to continue to monitor growth
                                                                                                                               Figure 1. Water Providers Context Map (Utah DNR, 2023)


2   MAGNA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
                                                   within and beyond     require proof that the development will provide
                                                   the Magna City        sufficient infrastructure and bring with it the
                                                   boundary in the       appropriate amount of water.
                                                   future.
                                                                         Water providers do not serve areas beyond their
                                               Magna          Water      service boundary unless they elect to annex
                                               District is the main      these outlying areas. The annexation process
                                               provider and source       for service districts requires several steps, time,
                                               of water that is          and staff and the annexation must be approved
                                               associated with the       by the Lieutenant Governor. For areas within
                                               City, however there       the City that are not served by Magna Water
                                               are areas within the      District, the Magna Water District may annex
                                               City boundary that        these areas, a nearby Water District, like the Salt
                                               are not serviced by       Lake City Water System, may annex the area,
                                               any public water          or the development can bring water rights and
                                               providers.     These      infrastructure to be managed independently
                                               areas         present     or as part of a smaller water company. Each of
                                               a    challenge      to    these options – maintaining water rights and
                                               development,              infrastructure independently or expansion of
                                               for           several     service area boundaries through annexation are
                                               reasons.       Firstly,   costly and time consuming. The lack of public
                                               the    development        water service in these areas of the City does not
                                               process      requires     specifically prohibit growth, however it presents
   Figure 2. Share of Parcels within the Magna proof that there          a significant challenge.
              Water District Service Boundary  is sufficient water
                                               for the proposed
                                               development.
                                                                         WATER RESOURCES IN THE FUTURE
                                                                                                                               Figure 3. Culinary Water Supply from Source Chart (Division of Water Rights)
Property owners may bring their own water rights and                     The Magna Water District anticipates the
infrastructure to the City, however, this is a challenging and           following growth to the system (Shown in Table
expensive approach for individuals. Water providers can also             2. Future Water Source). While there is some


 TABLE 1. EXISTING WATER SOURCES (WATER MASTER PLAN, 2025)
 Existing Source                  Raw Annual Capacity           Reliable Culinary Annual       Reliable Secondary
                                  (acre-ft)                     Capacity (acre-ft)             Annual Capacity (acre-ft)
 Haynes Well Field                             3250
 Barton Well Field                             4550
 EDR Plant                                                                 6,864
 Existing Shallow Wells                                                                                    287
 JVWCD Contract                                                             800
 JVWCD Option                                                               160
 Canal Shares                                                                                             1,344
 Reuse Water                                                                                               822
 Subtotal - Existing                           7,800                       7,824                          2,453
 Assumed Share for Magna*                      7254                        6696                           2,281
                                                                                      *See Figure 1 and the discussion above


                                                                                                                                  Figure 4. Secondary Water Supply from Source (Division of Water Rights)


                                                                                                                                                                                                    WATER     3
         expansion of culinary, the majority of source expansion is for              per capita per day) and second, the total water, in this case,        conservation in the District’s Water Conservation Plan. Table
         secondary water, highlighting the district’s approach to reducing           millions of gallons (Mgal) used per year.                             3. Population and Water Projections shows the Water District’s
         culinary use through expansion of secondary. One of the most                                                                                      estimates for future demand, and the anticipated per capita
         vulnerable sources for the district and the city is the Utah and Salt       Per capita culinary water use in 2024 was significantly below         use. Projections for a reduction in demand for culinary water
         Lake Canal Company. As the district increases their secondary               the regional conservation goal of 183 gpcd by 2065. The Magna         use are demonstrated through scenarios highlighting the
         supply it also plans to shift its reliance on the canal company,            Water District tracks the indoor versus outdoor per capita water      potential expansions of the secondary water supply. The chart
         with significant expansion of the secondary water supply                    use. In 2023 per capita use was approximately 60 gpcd for             demonstrates that if expansion in the secondary water supply
         through reuse water and new shallow wells. The future culinary              indoor use in and 3.79 ac-ft/acre of irrigated land, such as yards    system can be accomplished, significant reductions in demand
         supply is associated with the annexation areas and increases in             and parks. Currently the outdoor water use far exceeds the 15         for culinary water can be expected.
         the Jordan Valley Conservancy District wholesale contract based             inch maximum annual use per square foot for landscaping that
         on a maximum allowance for each acre of land (1.65 ac-ft./acre).            is prescribed by municipal code. This suggest that if every home      The Magna Water District extends beyond the City’s boundaries
                                                                                     and business in Magna were meeting outdoor water use levels           into parts of West Valley City, thus these numbers reflect not
                                                                                     mandated by the municipal code, landscapes within the city            only water demand for the City but the entire service area. As

         WATER USE TODAY                                                             might look significantly different from their current appearance.
                                                                                     The indoor water use is considered low, however the Magna
                                                                                                                                                           part of the General Plan effort, the future land use map for the
                                                                                                                                                           City was used to create water demand projections for Magna.
                                                                                     Water District’s Master Plan identifies a further conservation        Today the City accounts for 93% of all parcels that are served
         Magna has a unique pattern of land use. Today a significant
                                                                                     goal of 17% reduction by 2065 (Magna Water District Master            by the water district (Culinary). While this gives a general idea
         portion of the northern section of the City is preserved in nature
                                                                                     Plan, 2025).                                                          of the approximate share of water supply that goes to the City,
         preserves, see Table 4 Protected Lands and Figure 5 Protected
                                                                                                                                                           this is subject to change over time as development progresses
         Land, protecting the wetland habitats of the Great Salt Lake. This
         land is not anticipated to grow and currently does not use water            CURRENT AND FUTURE DEMAND IN THE DISTRICT                             in areas inside and beyond the city limits at different rates and
                                                                                                                                                           intensities.
         from Magna Water District. The City currently has low water use
                                                                                     The Magna Water District is required by the state to monitor
         compared to the state and the region. Water use is measured
                                                                                     supply and demand in addition to recommendations for water
                                                                                                                                                           MAJOR WATER USERS AND LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
         with two key metrics; firstly, the per capita water use (or gallons


          TABLE 2. FUTURE WATER SOURCE (WATER MASTER PLAN, 2025)                                                                                           Major water users are an important component of the City’s water
                                                                                                                                                           story. Large landowners, public landowners, and agricultural lands
          Future Source                        Reliable Annual Capacity              Reliable Culinary Annual            Reliable Secondary Annual         exist within the boundary of the City. These users often present
                                               (acre-ft)                             Capacity (acre-ft)                  Capacity (acre-ft)                key opportunities for education or reduction of water waste.
          Additional Reuse Water                                                                                                     713                   Magna’s protected lands are highlighted in this section, other
          Additional Shallow Wells                                                                                                   1913                  chapters in the General Plan identify other key lands, especially
                                                                                                                                                           the Parks, Recreation, and Trails Chapters. The protection comes
          Little Valley (JVWCD Budget)                        1,234                                  1,234                           388                   from unique land ownership which is summarized in Table 4.
          Kennecott Foothills (JVWCD                           880                                   880                             235                   Protected Lands.
          Budget)
                                                                                                                                                           The Magna Water District does not service all land within the
          Subtotal - Future                                    2,114                                 2,114                          3,249
                                                                                                                                                           City boundary. While a considerable portion of the land in the


          TABLE 3. POPULATION AND WATER PROJECTIONS (MAGNA WATER DISTRICT WATER CONSERVATION PLAN, 2021)
          Provider                 Population               Total Use (ac-ft)        Per capita Use          Conservation Goal     Capacity               Projected Demand      Projected Demand      Projected Demand
                                                                                     (gpcd)                  (gpcd)                                       w/out Secondary       w Priority            w Aggressive
                                                                                                                                                          Expansion (ac-ft)     Secondary             Secondary
                                                                                                                                                                                Expansion(ac-ft)      Expansion (ac-ft)
          Magna Water                 34,476 (2024)            4,509.29 (2024)       142 (estimate, 2025)          173 (2060)               7,200                7,500                 6,300                  4,900
          District Culinary
          Magna Water              1,444 (Connections,             1,335.11 (2024)             NA1                     NA                   1,161                6752                  2,500                  4,900
          District Irrigation             2024)
          1. The Conservation Plan does not identify per capita use for irrigation. This should be included in the overall number i.e. the sum of the total use columns divided by the total population of the service
          district (34,476).

          2. The Water Conservation Plan identifies a demand that is lower than the use recorded for the water provider in 2024, the Conservation Plan was published in 2021, three years prior to the Division
          of Water Rights data point shown in the chart. 675 ac-ft of water is not considered adequate for the demand presently.



4   MAGNA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
northern portion of the city is protected, there are swaths of land
that are within the Utah Inland Port Authority Boundary and may
                                                                         PROTECTED WETLANDS & NATURAL AREAS
develop into industrial or commercial uses in the future beyond          The northern portion of Magna has a
the Magna Water District Service area. Industrial development            considerable amount of protected land.
in this area in the future will require either annexation into an        Much of this land is located near the Great
existing water provider boundary or other acquisition of water           Salt Lake and the preserved area is meant
rights and appropriate infrastructure.                                   to mitigate wetland deterioration. The land
                                                                         is intended to be reserved in its natural
AGRICULTURAL AND PROTECTED LANDS                                         form, including natural vegetation, which
                                                                         assumes that there will not be significant
While Magna has some agricultural uses, there are no Agricultural        changes in water use. These protected
Protection Areas within the City limits. There are considerable          lands are shown in Table 4. Protected Lands
portions of land within the city that are zoned as agriculture,          which identifies the managing agency and
however these zones are intended for residential land uses where         the type of protections they are under.
there are already established residential uses, industrial uses in       Their geographies are shown in Figure 5
the northern portions of the city, or as preserved land. For those       Protected Lands Map.
agricultural areas that remain within the city conservation of the
land as agriculture is beneficial to landowners and community            The protected lands identified in Table
members, providing local food or greenspace. There are many              4 Protected Lands are part of a larger
protections that can incentivize farmers to maintain land in             complex of 8,000 acres of conservation
its current state, primarily using conservation easements or             lands owned and managed by Kennecott
the agricultural protection areas. Property owners can explore           Utah Copper Corporation, Salt Lake Airport
options available from the Utah Department of Agriculture and            Authority, Utah Mitigation Commission,
Food at their website.                                                   Utah Division of Water Quality, the Nature
                                                                         Conservancy, and the National Audubon
While agriculture can be an intense water use, there are ways            Society on the south and east shores
to manage water waste, especially with the use of efficient              of the Great Salt Lake(Utah Mitigation
irrigation systems. The Utah Department of Agriculture and               Commission). Much of the protected lands
Food and the National Resource Conservation Service maintain             along the Great Salt Lake were acquired
lists of resources that are available to farmers. In particular there    by entities to mitigate wetland impacts
are rebate programs that incentivize best management practices           or preserve land reserved for wetlands
from irrigation system updates to rotational grazing.                    and migratory shorebirds. Currently, this
                                                                         complex of protected lands includes over
                                                                         4,000 acres within Magna City.




TABLE 4. PROTECTED LANDS (MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT)
Name                            Agency                      Protection                    Land Owner
Magna Copper Park               Magna City                  Open Space                    Kennecott Utah Copper
                                                                                          Corporation
South Shore Preserve            Utah Mitigation             Wetland Conservation          National Audubon
                                Commission                                                Society
Inland Sea Shorebird            Kennecott Utah Copper       Wetland Conservation          Kennecott Utah Copper
Preserve                        Corporation                                               Corporation
Lee Creek Natural Area          Utah Open Lands             Wetland Conservation/         National Audubon
                                                            Open Space                    Society
Utah Open Space Lands           Utah DNR, Utah State        Variety                       State of Utah
                                Parks, Division of State
                                Lands and Forestry


                                                                                                                       Figure 5. Protected Lands Map


                                                                                                                                             WATER     5
                                Figure 6. Utah Inland Port Boundary (Source: Salt Lake County)   Figure 7. Secondary Water Use (DWR, 2022) and Irrigation Company Service Areas (DWR, 2024)

6   MAGNA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
KENNECOTT OPEN SPACE (INCLUDING MAGNA COPPER PARK)                    to larger water users, especially institutional users like parks and
                                                                      City or County facilities. Alternative secondary irrigation may be
                                                                                                                                                 developed acre, depending on the use. For example, recreation
                                                                                                                                                 and agriculture are ERUs per developed acre due to smaller
Magna Copper Park is owned by Kennecott Utah Copper                   available to property owners that fall within the irrigation service       developed footprints, and demand of water uniformly being
Corporation and leased to, and managed by Magna City. This            boundaries, if water users maintain shares in the company and              consumed more so across the entire parcel. Employees per
greater area, including the Copper Club Golf Course, represents       infrastructure to divert and use the water.                                1000 Sq. Ft. was used for all other employment land uses
a slightly different land use. The public park and golf course                                                                                   as getting an estimate for number of employees based on
                                                                                                                                                 building footprint fit a better estimate. ERU for employment
                                                                      ANTICIPATED DEMAND AND EXPANSION OF THE SYSTEM
include a significant amount of improvements that require water
including bathroom and irrigated recreation amenities. The                                                                                       use is 105 gallons per day, which is 2.28 times less than the
park and golf course footprints account for only a portion of                                                                                    ERU for Residential.
the protected land which is reserved for the use of Kennecott.
This may develop in the future and presents another potential
                                                                      FUTURE DEMAND MODEL FOR MAGNA CITY                                     •   Mixed-use designations applied both methods, incorporating
opportunity for waterwise landscaping or secondary water                                                                                         ERUs for dwelling units and ERUs for employment acres.
                                                                      Annual and per capita water usage for Magna was modeled at
systems where appropriate.                                            the parcel level, with projections informed by an area of change       Water Usage Factors based on Residential and Employment
                                                                      analysis, future land use designations, and established water use      Land Uses are as shown in Table 5. Water Usage Factors.
UTAH INLAND PORT AUTHORITY                                            factors. Each parcel was modeled to represent both existing and
                                                                      anticipated future uses, accounting for changes in household
The state of Utah has a unique land use authority arrangement         and employment numbers where applicable. The output of the             TABLE 5. WATER USAGE FACTORS
in a portion of the City. This authority is associated with HB        model anticipates daily water usage in gallons per day for every       Future Land Use         Residential (ERUs)     Employment
2001 generally this area is expected to see significant industrial    parcel in the study area (Magna city limits). These results are                                                       (ERUs)
growth. This area shown in Figure 6. Utah Inland Port Boundary        aggregated up to understand total daily water usage per day in
is a portion of the Salt Lake Project Area. A portion of the Inland   gallons and can be extrapolated to gallons per capita per day          Agriculture                      0              3 per developed
Port is shown as intersecting a portion of the City serviced by the   based on population projections and annual water usage.                                                                      acre
Magna Water District and a portion of Magna that is not served                                                                               Commercial                       0              2 employees per
by any public water providers.                                        Areas of Change:                                                                                                      1000 developed Sq
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ft
Development in the City that lacks a public water provider must       The Areas of Change analysis evaluated development potential
consider the options for providers and the City will need to                                                                                 Historic                         0              2 employees per
                                                                      by cataloging vacant parcels and identifying redevelopment
consider the impact that the uses will have on the City’s water                                                                              Commercial                                     1000 developed Sq
                                                                      opportunities. These areas provide the foundation for predicting
demand as a whole, working with the established water provider.                                                                                                                                    Ft
                                                                      where future water demand may increase due to new construction
                                                                      or shifts to higher-intensity land uses. In Magna, redevelopment       Industrial                       0               1 employee per
This area is not considered in the overall water supply and           potential was drawn from the 2021 General Plan, focusing on                                                           1000 developed Sq
demand analysis for this element. Portions of the City that           designated Catalytic Areas as the most likely redevelopment                                                                   Ft
are within the water service boundary and the inland port             locations.                                                             Institutional                    0              5 employees per
boundary are considered to be areas of significant potential
                                                                                                                                                                                            1000 developed Sq
industrial or commercial growth. The Utah Inland Port Authority
                                                                      Future Land Use:                                                                                                             Ft
is responsible for a phased planning process for the area. The
portion highlighted in red in Figure 6. Utah Inland Port Boundary     Water demand calculations were based on a future land use              Mixed-Use                 0.7 per dwelling      4 employees per
is subject to that master planning effort upon its completion.        crosswalk table, which translated each land use into an equivalent                                     unit           1000 developed Sq
This may impact development patterns and water supply and             residential unit (ERU) factor expressed in gallons per day (GPD).                                                            Ft
demand.                                                               These ERUs are estimates of number of connections unique               Multi-Family              0.7 per dwelling             0
                                                                      residential and employment uses have. One residential ERU is           Residential                     unit
CANAL AND IRRIGATION COMPANIES                                        equal to an average consumption of 240 gallons per day, while          Neighborhood              0.7 per dwelling      2 employees per
                                                                      ERU for employment uses is 105 gallons per day.                        Commercial                      unit           1000 developed Sq
Magna City is within the service areas of three Canal and
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ft
Irrigation companies: Utah Lake Distributing Company (59-             •   Residential land uses were modeled using ERUs per
13), Brighton and North Point Irrigation Company (59-3659),               household. Single Family Residential parcels receive 1 ERU per     Open Space                       0                     0
and Utah & Salt Lake Canal Company (58-1753 and 59-3499).                 household (in other words one connection per household).           Recreation                       0             6.4 per developed
Additionally, Magna Water District has an expansive secondary             One residential ERU is equal to an average consumption of                                                                acre
system that serves several properties within city and parts of            240 gallons per day. Multi-Family Residential uses receive
                                                                                                                                             Residential              1 per dwelling unit           0
West Valley City. The District’s secondary system sources water           0.7 ERUs per household, equating to a lower usage based on
from the Utah & Salt Lake Canal Company, the Jordan Valley                smaller footprint and outdoor water use.                           Transportation                   0                     0
Water Conservancy District, and several surface wells.                                                                                       Utilities                        0              0.5 employees per
                                                                      •   Employment-based land uses were modeled using ERUs in
                                                                                                                                                                                            1000 developed Sq
Magna Water District has prioritized secondary water delivery             two ways: (1) employees per 1000 Sq. Ft. and (2) ERU per
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ft



                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WATER   7
         Modeling:                                                              This analysis does not include areas
                                                                                beyond the current Water District
         The Community Water Projections model is a GIS model that              boundary. While the northern portion of
         considers 5 geospatial parameters: parcels, land use, building         the City may develop, it is anticipated
         square footage, acres, and areas of change. Parcels came from          that this development will primarily be
         Salt Lake County’s Assessors data, building footprints came from       commercial and industrial, and that the
         an imagery analysis (to calculate building square footage), land       Utah Inland Port Authority Plans will
         use came from the Municipal Water Districts, and acres were            apply. This development would require
         calculated through parcel geometries.                                  water rights and infrastructure including
                                                                                distribution, storage, and treatment.
         After collecting the spatial inputs, the model utilizes the future
                                                                                This analysis shows that significant
         land use crosswalk information and infrastructure projections to
                                                                                development in northern Magna would
         model water usage for both indoor and outdoor use by land use
                                                                                potentially tax water resources and likely
         type.
                                                                                require significant effort on the part of
                                                                                developers.
         Results:
                                                                                This analysis does not explicitly include
         Figure 8. Magna Future Water Use are the results of the                areas beyond the City’s current boundaries.
         Community Water Projections modeling for Magna:                        The Magna Water District anticipates
         Based on these future projections, the city will have a per            annexing these areas and sourcing water
         capita water use of 129.3 by the year 2065. This is well within        from the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
         the target for the Conservation Plan and the Regional Goal. The        District. This would naturally limit water
         district will likely have a capacity of nearly 4,400 Mgal per year     considerably in these areas. According to
         by 2065. The land use and water projections used in this plan          the Manga Water District Master Plan:
         element show that current growth projections will require 2,050           If annexed into Magna Township,
         Mgal per year assuming conservation efforts identified in this            Little Valley and Kennecott Foothills
         and the Conservation Plan. The city may account for a relatively          have access to 1.35 acre-ft/acre
         smaller portion of overall water use in the district moving into          of culinary water from JVWCD. If
         the future, especially as the District annexation areas continue          these developments fulfill certain
         to grow. Based on this analysis the City’s demand alone will be           conservation     requirements   from
         approximately half of the available water in 2065.                        JVWCD they can qualify for up to 1.65



          TABLE 6. MAGNA 2065 WATER USAGE
          Future Land Use         Total GPD      Employment        Employment           Residential        Residential
                                                 Indoor GPD        Outdoor GPD          Indoor GPD        Outdoor GPD
          Commercial               2,346.71        1,408.02            938.68                 -                  -
          Historic                382,719.14      153,167.49          102,111.66         82,836.00          44,604.00
          Commercial
          Industrial             153,205.42        91,923.25          61,282.17               -                  -
          Institutional         1,689,065.60     1,013,295.36        675,530.24            156.00             84.00
          Mixed Use               618,937.29      179,774.60         119,849.73          246,504.59         132,733.24
          Multi-Family           489,722.49            -                  -              318,319.62         171,402.87
          Residential
          Open Space                   -               -                  -                   -                  -
          Recreation              111,859.87       11,185.99         100,673.89               -                  -
          Residential           2,168,382.09           -                  -             1,409,448.36        758,933.73
          Utilities              2577.32442       1288.66221         1288.66221               0                 0
          Total                   5,618,816        1,452,043          1,061,675           2,057,265          1,107,759
                                                                                                                              Figure 8. Magna Future Water Use


8   MAGNA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
   acre-ft/acre. This equates to 1,115 acre-ft/yr for Kennecott         address reduction to future demand without secondary water                    will continue to grow at the pace of development thereafter.
   Foothills and 1,622 acre-ft/year for Little Valley. It has been      expansion.                                                                    This scenario is designed to represents what would happen if
   assumed that this water will be used first to service culinary                                                                                     the District were to make expansion of the secondary system
   needs with any additional available water used in the                Secondary Expansion                                                           a top priority and invest significantly in expansion through its
   secondary system.                                                                                                                                  service area.
                                                                        To ensure future water needs are met, Magna Water District is
In the case of any future annexations, Magna should update this         investing in the expansion of its secondary water system. The             2. Priority Expansion of Secondary: Because expansion of the
plan element to include this water source and demand.                   expansion of the secondary system is crucial for the district to             secondary system is expected to require significant initial
                                                                        continue to serve future growth and development for the future.              investment, it was deemed prudent to consider a scenario
ANTICIPATED DEMAND IN THE MAGNA WATER DISTRICT                          Currently, the District does not have adequate secondary sources             with less aggressive expansion of the system. This scenario
                                                                                                                                                     assumes that secondary water will be expanded only to new
                                                                        to meet an aggressive expansion scenario for the long-term.
Magna is anticipated to grow quickly over the next 45 years.            Key to this aggressive expansion scenario will be improvements               growth or as necessary to offset the culinary demands of new
Figure 8. Magna Future Water Use and Figure 9. Culinary water           to the water treatment facility. The district has already worked             growth within the District. Under this scenario, expansion of
Production Requirements shows the anticipated demand and                to secure grant funding from a variety of sources to make this               the secondary into existing developments within the service
capacity up to the year 2060. Secondary expansion is a crucial          expansion a reality.                                                         area would only occur as more cost-effective opportunities
piece of the District’s plan to meet future demand, by reducing                                                                                      arose. This means that the District would connect dry lines
the amount of treated water used for outdoor use. Per capita             Secondary Expansion Scenarios:                                              already in place but would otherwise wait to install secondary
water use in Magna is already within the goal GPCD use for                                                                                           in existing neighborhoods until the County was rebuilding
the region however the District Water Conservation plan also            1.   Aggressive Expansion: This scenario assumes that secondary              the streets. (Magna Water District Water Master Plan, 2020)
highlights a goal of additional reduction. The expansion of their            water will be expanded to all of the existing service area within
conservation programs is anticipated but will not adequately                 Magna Water District by the year 2040. The secondary system




                                Figure 9. Culinary Water Production Requirements (Water Master Plan, 2025)                                       Figure 10. Secondary Water Production Requirements (Water Master Plan, 2025)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WATER   9
         The District has supported the priority scenario for secondary        approximate growth rates in these areas,
         expansion. This means that expansion of secondary water will          however information is limited.
         be particularly important in areas of annexation as identified in
         the District’s Water Master Plan. These areas are shown in Figure     These areas of interest should the
         11. Potential Annexation Areas. A major source of secondary           City undergo an annexation process.
         water will be the effluent water from the District’s wastewater       Currently the areas are subject to Salt
         treatment plant. Expansion of the system will require significant     Lake County zoning and subdivision
         capital improvements including improvements to the wastewater         regulations, meaning that the City has no
         treatment plant and secondary storage.                                direct control over the layout of this new
                                                                               development, including key features like
         The District’s Master Plan has expanded the service area              lot size and landscaping requirements
         annexation boundaries in the last 5 years. This indicates the         that directly relate to water use. While
         development activity that is happening in unincorporated Salt         annexation of these areas into the City is
         Lake County adjacent to Magna. The Magna Water District has           not a certainty, there are other options,
         worked closely with Kennecott planning personnel to identify          including working with the County,




                                         Figure 11. Potential Annexation Areas (Magna Water District Water Master Plan, 2025)   Figure 12. Source Water Projection Zones


10   MAGNA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
Kennecott, and the Water District to apply certain regulations        education programs, including:                                                Effect): Encourages customers to use water wisely through
that may align with Magna’s land use regulation in the future.                                                                                      tiered pricing, education, and voluntary practices such as
                                                                      •   News releases, conservation tips, newsletters, and other                  avoiding outdoor watering between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00
                                                                          resources available on the District’s website (https://                   p.m., using efficient sprinklers, drought-tolerant landscaping,
CONSERVATION TODAY                                                    •
                                                                          magnawater.myruralwater.com/)

                                                                          Guidance for customers on managing their water needs
                                                                                                                                                    and low-flow fixtures.

                                                                                                                                               •    Level 2 – Mandatory Conservation: May restrict watering
The District’s Water Conservation Plan highlights several
                                                                                                                                                    to specific times or days. Violations result in warnings and
conservation methods that are already being carried out in the        •   Updates on the implementation of low-flow devices
                                                                                                                                                    escalating fees to encourage compliance.
city that supplement the secondary water improvements. These
conservation methods are a key piece of the overall strategy to       •   A partnership with Jordan Valley Water Conservation District
                                                                                                                                               •    Level 3 – Mandatory Restrictions: May include higher water
conserve water and ensure continued availability for existing and         (JVWCD) to offer conservation and landscaping classes for
                                                                                                                                                    rates, temporary bans on new lawns, or other limits to reduce
future residents and businesses. Some key actions are as follows:         local residents
                                                                                                                                                    overall water use during shortages.
                                                                      •   School programs that teach students gardening and flower
PROTECTING MAGNA’S WATER SOURCES                                          bed techniques
                                                                                                                                               •    Level 4 – Emergency Restrictions: The most severe level,
                                                                                                                                                    which may ban or strictly limit outdoor watering. Repeated
Identified culinary water source protection zones are shown                                                                                         violations can result in significant penalties and potential
                                                                      Meter Replacement                                                             suspension of service.
on Figure 12. Source Water Protection Zones. These protection
zones are established to ensure that no concentrated source of        To improve efficiency and service, the District is upgrading its
pollution is allowed within a zone that will adversely impact the     water meters to state-of-the-art
quality of culinary water.                                            automated reading technology.
Primarily protections in these areas are specific to onsite
                                                                      These new meters reduce field           TABLE 7. WATER WASTE IN MAGNA SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM
                                                                      work orders by an estimated 15%,
wastewater disposal systems but may also include review of                                                 Year                Total From Sources      Total Metered Use            *Estimated Unmetered
                                                                      improve accuracy in water usage
septic tanks, hazardous waste, and fertilizer use within the                                                                                                                        Water and Losses %
                                                                      reporting,   enhance     customer
areas identified in Figure 11. Potential Annexation Areas. Magna                                           2024                        1,335.11                  809.29                        39.38
                                                                      service and response times, and
Water District maintains the Water Quality report, ensuring that
                                                                      free up staff for other innovative   2023                         887.29                   594.85                        32.96
culinary water in the system meets all state and federal drinking
                                                                      projects. To date, about 60% of
water quality guidelines.                                                                                  2022                         776.26                   508.23                        34.53
                                                                      meters over ten years old have
                                                                      been replaced with Neptune           2021                        827.00                    443.59                        46.36
PROVIDER PROGRAMMING                                                  Technology       Group’s     latest  2020                         918.27                   602.66                        34.37
                                                                      technology. Older meters still in
                                                                                                           2019*                        521.44                   462.28                         11.35
Tiered Water Rates                                                    use are maintained quarterly to
                                                                      ensure accurate monitoring of                       *Water metering data became available in 2019, years prior do not have water loss data.
Magna Water District has long promoted water conservation             customer usage.
through its tiered rate structures and incentives for using
secondary water where available. In 2019, the District updated
its Master Plan, Impact Fee Facilities Study, and conducted
                                                                      Drought Response                        TABLE 8. WATER WASTE IN MAGNA CULINARY WATER SYSTEM
a new Rate Study, with the updated rates adopted in April             Since adopting its official Water       Year                 Total From            Total Retail Use   Total Wholesale     *Estimated
2021 and scheduled to take effect in January 2022. The tiered         Conservation Plan in 1999 (per                               Sources                                                      Water Loss %
system encourages efficient water use by charging higher rates        Utah Code § 73-10-32), Magna            2024                      6,135.32             4,509.29            630.04               16.23
as usage increases and incentivizing secondary water use to,          Water District has maintained           2023                      5,555.30             3,990.59             573.47              17.84
supporting both conservation and sustainable management of            a framework to promote the
water resources.                                                      efficient use of water and to           2022                       5,816.11            3,959.66             609.97              21.43
                                                                      safeguard this critical resource.       2021                      6,014.23             4,216.40             604.19              19.85
Public Education and Outreach                                         The District’s conservation policies    2020                      6,519.42             4,664.23             656.13              18.39
                                                                      include year-round guidelines as
Magna Water District is committed to transparency and to              well as tiered restrictions that can    2019                      5,554.28             3,689.67             553.68              23.60
helping customers adopt effective water conservation practices.       be activated during drought or          2018                     5,940.34               4,187.09            522.33              20.72
The District fosters this through open Board meetings, annual         emergency conditions.
consumer confidence reports, monthly water statement                                                          2017                      5,808.41             4,030.82             582.91              20.57
communications, and an open-door policy with the District             Conservation Framework:                 2016                      6,173.76             4,076.14             623.88              23.87
Manager.                                                                                                      2015                      5,068.97              4,159.25             0.00               17.95
                                                                      •   Level    1     –      Voluntary
In addition, the District provides a variety of public outreach and       Conservation       (Always   in     2014                      4,920.97             4,108.80              0.00               16.50



                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WATER   11
         REDUCING WATER WASTE                                                  budget for landscape use for the property.
                                                                               (A conversion factor of 0.62 shall be used
                                                                               to convert from inches of water utilized
         In 2024 and in previous years, there has been a considerable          to gallons.) This efficiency standard
         amount of unmetered or waste in the District’s secondary system.      incentivizes the use of hydrozones that
         These percentages have grown, likely reflecting that metering is      group plant with similar water needs
         not keeping up with system expansion. Continued expansion of          together on the same irrigation line, thus
         secondary water metering can significantly reduce the amount          using more water per square foot for
         of water that is not accounted for. Additionally, water metering      turf grass and relatively less for areas
         is shown to reduce per capita water use regardless of cost to         with waterwise plantings and mulch or
         consumer. The expansion of water metering thus is a critical          alternative surface cover.
         piece of water conservation now and in future development in
         the City.                                                             The LocalScapes concept has evolved
                                                                               over time, but focuses on functional
         The culinary system also has gaps in monitoring or has a              spaces, separation of irrigation areas
         significant amount of water lost in distribution. Identification of   into hydrozones, reduction of turf grass
         leaks or other system improvements to decrease water loss is a        to functional areas only, use of native or
         high priority in the culinary system as well.                         waterwise decorative plants, and efficient
                                                                               maintenance. The Figure 13. Localscape
         LAND USE CONNECTION                                                   Example Design highlights an example of a
                                                                               LocalScape design. The Magna Landscape
         Secondary Water System Expansion                                      Ordinance does not call for restrictions
                                                                               to rear yards in single-family homes but
         The secondary water system is the largest program within Magna        does regulate all yards in commercial
         Water District. Unlike many secondary systems in Utah, which          and multi-family development. Figure 13.
         often experience water waste and misuse due to the absence            LocalScape Example Design highlights
         of accurate measurement tools, the District’s system is unique        options for all yard space in a single-
         because every user is equipped with a water meter. This universal     family development; however, this is not
         metering has not only supported significant water conservation        required by the ordinance.
         efforts but also enabled ongoing monitoring and management
         of usage, resulting in a substantial reduction in overall water       The ordinance and many of the water-
         consumption.                                                          wise and LocalScape design elements
                                                                               emphasize the importance of plant
         Ordinances/Standards                                                  coverage. It is important to reduce water
                                                                               use, however, reducing plant coverage
         While the District does not have direct land use authority, it        entirely increases the ground temperatures
         partners with Salt Lake County, Magna City, and West Valley City      posing a health risk to residents and
         to promote water-wise landscaping. In 2004, the District worked       potentially increasing energy use indoors
         with West Valley City to develop a Landscape Ordinance that           to maintain comfortable temperatures.
         incorporates conservation principles.                                 The landscape ordinance calls for 30%
                                                                               living plant coverage (3 years after
         Magna’s landscape ordinance was adopted in 2023 and was               planting) at the ground level, excluding
         based closely on guidance from the Jordan Valley Conservancy          tree canopy coverage.
         District LocalScapes concept at the time. The ordinance applies
         to new development, building additions (greater than 20%              New plantings require additional water
         increase in building coverage), and some requirements for             during the first several years after planting.
         building renovations that replace previous landscaping.               After installation of a new landscape,
                                                                               there is a period of increased water need
         The ordinance includes significant restrictions to turf grass in      as new plants are established. The type of
         all land uses, with more extensive restrictions on multi-family       plant, maturity of the plant, location, and
         and commercial uses and a relatively restrictive water efficiency     appropriate planting procedure all factor
         standard. Landscape plans must show a water allowance of no           into the amount of water that is required in
         more than fifteen inches per square foot average for the entire       the early days of a developed landscape.
         landscaped area of the site. Multiplying this figure by the total
         irrigated landscape area in square feet yields the annual water
                                                                                                                                Figure 13. LocalScape Example Design (Source: MSD)


12   MAGNA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
CONSERVATION FOR FUTURE GROWTH
Expansion of Secondary Water System

The Magna Water District supports the priority secondary water
expansion scenario. This approach includes additions to the
distribution system as development occurs with incremental
additions to established neighborhoods as the City and County
replace, maintain, and improve roadways over time. This approach
balances the expansion of secondary water with consideration
for cost and integration of new secondary sources over time.

Funding Expansion for Water Conservation Coordinator

Magna Water District does not have available resources
or revenue to hire a single water conservation coordinator
devoted to water conservation programs but rather relies on
the cooperative efforts within the district. Looking to the future,
additional coordination between Magna City and Magna Water
District will be crucial for ongoing water conservation.




                                                                      Photo Credit: © 2025 LOGAN SIMPSON


                                                                                                           WATER   13
         GOALS AND STRATEGIES                     STRATEGY 1.                                                           STRATEGY 3.
                                                  Align City land use policy with neighboring                           Encourage best landscaping practice that reduces
                                                  jurisdictions, service providers, and the preferences                 outdoor water use.
         GOAL I.                                  of community members to encourage development
                                                  patterns that reduce water consumption.                               Action i. Consider retrofitted landscaping in public parks or
                                                                                                                        institutional buildings to reduce water use and to showcase
         Actively contribute to water             Action i. Meet regularly with Magna Water District, West Valley       options for waterwise landscaping that are dynamic and
                                                                                                                        attractive.
         conservation as a part of the Salt       City, Jordan Valley Conservancy District, Salt Lake County, and
                                                  large land owners to assess development review processes,
         Lake region, protecting the health and   identify new large developments, and to ensure that development       Action ii. Review the City’s subdivision and zoning ordinances,
                                                                                                                        linking to recommended native plant lists, and other landscaping
         safety community members today and       addresses the constraints of the water district.
                                                                                                                        resources regularly    as new water-wise guidance becomes
         in the future.                           Action ii. Consider interlocal agreements that may allow a joint      available from Utah State University, Jordan Valley Water
                                                  city, county, and service provider representation for development     Conservancy District, and other reputable sources.
                                                  review in areas that may reasonably be annexed into the City.
                                                  The joint board or administrator should consider differences in       Action iii. Encourage municipal landscape contracts with
                                                  the water budget/water allowance and the minimum front and            companies that are Qwel Certified or those that have successfully
                                                  side-street yard setbacks between county and city regulations,        completed relevant classes from the Jordan Valley Conservancy
                                                  identifying which regulations should apply.                           District or the UNLA on public and private land.

                                                                                                                        Action iv. Provide educational options for the community and
                                                  STRATEGY 2.                                                           developers during the application process identifying alternative
                                                                                                                        turf grass options like buffalograss, Bermudagrass, and Fescues,
                                                  Ensure that Magna’s ordinances allow for water
                                                                                                                        encourage visitation to demonstration gardens and local
                                                  conservation through appropriate site development                     landscape classes, and use of template landscape designs from
                                                  standards.                                                            Jordan Valley Conservation Garden Park.

                                                  Action i. Where applicable, the Magna Water District should be
                                                  included in the certification of improvements submitted for a final
                                                                                                                        STRATEGY 4.
                                                  plat application. The Water District may make recommendations         Reduce water waste.
                                                  about setbacks and street design that ensures sufficient space
                                                  for secondary and culinary water.
                                                                                                                        Action i. Work with the Magna Water District to encourage the
                                                                                                                        use of smart metering, increasing awareness of resources that
                                                                                                                        private property owners have to view their water use daily.

                                                                                                                        Action ii. Align infrastructure improvements between the City,
                                                                                                                        county, and service providers, encouraging the expansion of
                                                                                                                        secondary lines when there are scheduled road improvements
                                                                                                                        and replacing aging infrastructure when redevelopment or other
                                                                                                                        improvements are already planned.

                                                                                                                        Action iii. Identify unaccounted water losses that are associated
                                                                                                                        with new development. Confer with the water providers on how
                                                                                                                        to reduce water waste in construction and work with developers
                                                                                                                        throughout the planning and development process to reduce
                                                                                                                        water waste.




14   MAGNA GENERAL PLAN UPDATE
