                                      Planning and Development Services
                                      860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 • Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                      Phone: (385) 910-5600




                        Magna Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

               Thursday, November 13, 2025, 6:30 P.M.
Location
Magna Webster Center
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-391-8268.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Approval of October 16, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
   2) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

REZ2025-001525 - Consideration of an ordinance amending the official zoning map of the City
of Magna. This proposed amendment would rezone specific properties such as schools and
churches as Public Institutions (PI Zone), properties owned by a public and quasi-public entities
(i.e.: Magna City, Magna Water Improvement District, Enbridge Gas, Pacificorp) as Public
Facilities (PF Zone), and Parks, Recreational and Open Space parcels to Parks and Recreation (PR
Zone) or Natural Open Space (OS Zone) as appropriate. Planners: Bianca Paulino, Daniele
Benigni (Discussion/Hearing/Action)

                                           ADJOURN




November 13, 2025                            Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – MAGNA
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



November 13, 2025                                                                            AGENDA – MAGNA
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                MAGNA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Thursday, October 16, 2025, 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 8 minutes                         *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 3                                    found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                     Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Richards

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                                               Public      Business
                                Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                           Mtg          Mtg
    Dan Cripps (Vice Chair)                            x
  Ammon Lockwood (Alternate)                           x                      Wendy Gurr                     x            x
     Aaron Weight (Chair)        x           x                                Justin Smith                   x            x
        Todd Richards            x           x                                Matt Starley                   x            x
          Jed Taylor             x           x                                Brian Tucker                   x            x
                                                                              Jay Springer                   x            x



Commissioner Richards read the Chairs Opening Statement.

                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:32 p.m.
    1) Approval of September 11, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
       Motion: To approve September 11, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
             Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
             2nd by: Commissioner Richards
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        Acknowledge point of order motions are unanimous. Commissioners Richards confirmed he is Chair
        Pro Tem and Commissioner Weight is participating via-telephone.


                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                         Hearings began at – 6:36 p.m.

REZ2025-001480 - Jose Rodriguez is requesting a rezone from C-3/zc to C-1. Acres: 1.3. Location: 2646
South 7200 West, 2648 South 7200 West. Planner: Justin Smith (Discussion/Recommendation)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Justin Smith provided an analysis of the Staff Report.

Magna Planning Commission – October 16, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                                     Page 1 of 3
Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the location of the parcel.

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Jose Rodriguez
Address: 2646 and 2648 South 7200 West
Comments: Mr. Rodriguez said back in 2015 were C-2 and was rezoned in 2017 to C-3. His intent is to
take the parcel to change back to C-1. The updated zone doesn’t allow minor vehicle or equipment repair.
The service would include minor repairs and hours would be 9am to 6pm Monday through Saturday and no
outside storage. The garage will be storage and parking lot is sales.

Commissioners and Mr. Rodriguez had a brief discussion regarding code enforcement and the keeping of
the properties clean. Minor repairs are an accessory use to the dealership. Mr. Rodriguez asked for
everything, separately 1 for 1 for insurance purposes. He could have two LLC’s but must sell cars as well.
Discussed zoning conditions and the code doesn’t allow conditions as it did in the past.

Commissioner Richards opened the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

No one from the public is present to speak.

Commissioner Richards closed the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend application #REZ2025-001480 Jose Rodriguez is requesting a rezone from C-3/zc
to C-1 to the Magna Council for approval with staff recommendations.
        Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
        2nd by: Commissioner Weight
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)


OAM2025-001490 – General Plan update to adopt the Water Element Plan. Planner: Matt Starley
(Discussion/Recommendation)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Matt Starley provided an analysis of
the update.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding reuse water, park strips and curb stop, and
xeriscape. Confirmed Magna has the lowest per capita water users in the County.

No one from the public is present to speak.

Motion: To recommend file #OAM2025-001490 General Plan update to adopt the Water Element Plan to
the Magna Council for approval as recommended by staff.
      Motion by: Commissioner Weight
      2nd by: Commissioner Richards
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)


OAM2025-001507 - Consideration of an ordinance amending Title 18 Subdivisions and Title 19 Zoning

Magna Planning Commission – October 16, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                 Page 2 of 3
to: eliminate reclamation bond requirements; bring performance and warranty bond procedures, and final
disposition and release requirements into compliance with recent legislation; eliminate fees in lieu of the
installation of subdivision improvements; eliminate the requirement for any entity to sign construction plans
if that entity cannot be required to sign a final plat under Utah Code; allow a driveway up to 27’ wide in
lots between 40’ and 50’ wide; and eliminate language allowing the City to withhold permits or occupancy
for the failure to install private landscaping. Planner: Brian Tucker (Discussion/Recommendation)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning Manager Brian Tucker provided an analysis of the
ordinance amendment.

Commissioners, staff, and counsel had a brief discussion regarding infrastructure and improvement bond
to record the plat, water masters enforcement, and landscaping bonds.

No one from the public is present to speak.

Motion: To recommend file #OAM2025-001507 Consideration of an ordinance amending Title 18
Subdivisions and Title 19 Zoning to: eliminate reclamation bond requirements; bring performance and
warranty bond procedures, and final disposition and release requirements into compliance with recent
legislation; eliminate fees in lieu of the installation of subdivision improvements; eliminate the requirement
for any entity to sign construction plans if that entity cannot be required to sign a final plat under Utah
Code; allow a driveway up to 27’ wide in lots between 40’ and 50’ wide; and eliminate language allowing
the City to withhold permits or occupancy for the failure to install private landscaping to the Magna Council
for approval as outlined by staff.
        Motion by: Commissioner Weight
        2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Richards adjourned.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:40 p.m.




Magna Planning Commission – October 16, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                    Page 3 of 3
                                                        Zone Change Staff Report

Meeting Body: Planning                                                DESCRIPTION
Commission                                The proposed zone change would amend Magna City’s official zoning
Meeting Date: November 13, 2025           map to rezone multiple properties to the newly established Public
                                          Facilities (PF) and Public Institutions (PI) zones. These zones include
File Number & Project Type:
                                          uses such as schools, churches, and government buildings. In addition,
REZ2025-001525
                                          existing parks and open spaces would be rezoned to the Parks &
Current Zone: Varies                      Recreation (PR) and Open Space (OS) zones.
Proposed Zone: Open Space, Public         These changes are intended to align how each property is currently
Facilities, Public Institution, Parks &   used with the appropriate zoning designation. Updating the map will
Recreation                                ensure that zoning accurately reflects existing public and institutional
                                          uses, provides a clearer regulatory framework for future development,
Address: Varies (Exhibit A)
                                          and strengthens City oversight when properties within these zones are
Planner: Daniele Benigni, Bianca          proposed for sale, redevelopment, or changes in use.
Paulino

Applicant: N/A
                                                           GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
Key Findings:
                                          This amendment supports the Magna General Plan (adopted March
•   There are several properties with     23, 2021). It aligns with the following goals from the Land Use and
    public, institutional, park, and      Neighborhoods chapter:
    open space uses that are not
    zoned to match their current use.     •      Goal: Review the current zoning designations and requirements
•   The rezone changes support the        to ensure that zoning provisions are consistent with the intent of the
    Magna General Plan by aligning        General Plan.
    zoning     designations      with     •      Goal: Increase parks, trails, recreation, and open space
    existing and planned land uses.       opportunities to support healthy and active lifestyles for residents.
•   The new zones will give the City      (Magna General Plan, 2021, Land Use and Neighborhoods section, p.
    better oversight over land use        38)
    decisions.

Staff    Recommendation:      Staff
recommends that the Planning
Commission          forward      a
recommendation of approval to the
City Council for the proposed zone
changes.

Exhibits:

A. Proposed Zone Change Map




                      Rezone application number: REZ2025-001525| Date: 11-13-25 | Page 1 of 4
Exhibit A: Proposed Zone Change Map




             Rezone application number: REZ2025-001525| Date: 11-13-25 | Page 2 of 4
                            APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION
Table 19.16.080 includes the following guidelines a planning commission and Council may consider in
deciding zoning map and text amendments:
 GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS

1. The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.

2. The proposed amendment promotes public health, safety and welfare.

3. The proposed amendment is a more suitable zoning classification for the property than the current
classification.

4. The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of this Ordinance.


5. The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to existing requirements,
or reflects a change in policy.

6. The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality as a whole.

7. The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of nonconformities.

8. The proposed amendment is compatible with the trend of development, if any, in the general area
of the property in question.



                                              PUBLIC INPUT
Planning Staff has not received any comments from the public as of the completion of this staff report.
Any comments that are received will be forwarded to the Magna City Planning Commission for review and
will be summarized on November 13, 2025.

                                SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATION
Summary of issues:

Staff finds that:

    1. There are several properties with existing public facility, public institution, parks and recreation,
       and open space uses are not currently zoned to reflect their current use.
    2. The proposed rezone changes support the Magna General Plan (2021) to “review the current
       zoning designations and requirements to ensure that zoning provisions are consistent with the
       intent of the General Plan”. The rezone changes help implement the long-term vision of the
       General Plan by aligning zoning designations with existing and planned land uses throughout
       Magna.



                Rezone application number: REZ2025-001525| Date: 11-13-25 | Page 3 of 4
   3. The proposed rezone changes would provide the City greater oversight over land use decisions if
      properties within Open Space (OS), Public Facilities (PF), Public Institutions (PI) and Parks &
      Recreation (PR) zones are proposed for sale, redevelopment, or rezoning.

Recommendation:

Given the above findings, Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning Commission recommend
that the Council approve the rezones as shown in Exhibit A.

                               PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS
As a recommending body to the Council for zoning map amendments and text changes, the planning
commission has the following options:

   1. Approval: The planning commission recommends approval of REZ2025-001525 to change the
      zones as shown in Exhibit A.
   2. Approval with recommended changes to the map: The planning commission recommends
      approval of REZ2025-001525 to change the zones as shown in Exhibit A with recommended
      changes.
   3. Recommend Denial




             Rezone application number: REZ2025-001525| Date: 11-13-25 | Page 4 of 4
