                                      Planning and Development Services
                                      860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 • Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                      Phone: (385) 910-5600




                         Magna Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda
                                       **AMENDED**
                     Thursday, July 9, 2026, 6:00 P.M.
Location
Microsoft Teams
https://teams.microsoft.com/meet/243126794412950?p=fPIbN0PNKliUZZbNg6
Meeting ID: 243 126 794 412 950
Passcode: 5aX3Ew3G
Dial in by phone
+1 213-357-4434,,697523208# United States, Los Angeles
Find a local number
Phone conference ID: 697 523 208#


Anchor Location       Magna Webster Center
                      8952 West Magna Main Street
                      Magna, Utah

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-391-8268.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of June 11, 2026, Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) (Continued discussion) The Planning Commission and planning staff will have a
       discussion regarding an Overview of Magna’s General Plan, Zoning Ordinances, and
       possible amendments.
    3) Other Business Items. (As Needed)




July 9, 2026                                 Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – MAGNA
                                      PUBLIC HEARING(S)

REZ2026-001592 – Jose Salas is applying for a rezone from A-1/zc to R-1-6. Acreage: .43 acres.
Location: 7610 West 2820 South. Planner: Justin Smith (Discussion, Hearing, Action)

OAM2026-001636 - Consideration of a resolution amending Magna’s land use fee schedule.
Presenter: Brian Hartsell (Discussion, Hearing, Action)

OAM2026-001644 - Consideration of amending Section 15.08.011 of the Magna Municipal Code
to adopt the 2024 Edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code in accordance with
H.B. 41 of the 2026 General Legislative Session of the State of Utah. Planner: Curtis Woodward
(Discussion, Hearing, Action)

OAM2026-001643 - Consideration of an ordinance limiting Tattoo and Body Art businesses,
Tobacco Specialty Shops, Pawnbrokers, and Check Cashing in Magna based on population.
Planner: Brian Tucker (Discussion, Hearing, Action)


                                         ADJOURN




July 9, 2026                              Page 2 of 2                         AGENDA – MAGNA
               Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



July 9, 2026                                                                                AGENDA – MAGNA
                                                       Planning and Development Services
                                                       860 W. Levoy Dr. Ste 300 • Taylorsville, UT 84123
                                                       Phone: (385) 391-8268



                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                 MAGNA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                   Thursday, June 11, 2026, 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 4 minutes                          *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 3                                     found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                      Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Weight

                                                ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                                               Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                            Mtg          Mtg
      Aaron Weight (Chair)        x           x
            Dan Cripps            x           x                                 Wendy Gurr                    x            x
     Jeff Larson (Vice Chair)     x           x                                Brian Tucker                   x            x
            Jeff White            x           x                                Matt Starley
            Ted Shaw              x           x                               Clayton Preece                  x            x
  Ronnie Thompson (Alternate)     x           x                                Claire Gillmor                 x            x
    Doyle Jenkins (Alternate)     x           x



Commissioner Weight read the Chairs Opening Statement.

                                             BUSINESS MEETING

                                          Meeting began at – 6:00 p.m.
    1) Approval of May 14, 2026, Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
       Motion: To approve May 14, 2026, Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
             Motion by: Commissioner Cripps
             2nd by: Commissioner White
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        Clayton Preece provided ratification of findings.



                                             PUBLIC HEARING(S)

                                          Hearings began at – 6:09 p.m.

OAM2026-001628 – A proposal to amend Section 19.50.020 of the Landscaping, Screening, and Water-
Efficiency Standards chapter of the Magna zoning ordinance to limit the exemptions for single-family

Magna Planning Commission – June 11, 2026 – Meeting Summary                                                         Page 1 of 3
dwellings in harmony with the original intent of the adopted ordinance. Planner: Curtis Woodward
(Discussion/Recommendation)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning Manager Brian Tucker provided an analysis of the
proposed amendment.

Commissioner and staff had a brief discussion regarding irrigation, clean-up, xeriscape landscape, right-
of-way, park strip, new construction application or tear out,

Commissioner Cripps motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Larson seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

No one from the public is present to speak.

Commissioner Cripps motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner White seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend file #OAM2026-001628 A proposal to amend Section 19.50.020 of the
Landscaping, Screening, and Water-Efficiency Standards chapter of the Magna zoning ordinance to limit
the exemptions for single-family dwellings in harmony with the original intent of the adopted ordinance to
the Magna City Council for approval.
       Motion by: Commissioner White
       2nd by: Commissioner Cripps
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor


OAM2026-001636 - Consideration of a resolution amending Magna’s land use fee schedule. Presenter:
Brian Hartsell (Discussion, Hearing, Action)

To table file #OAM2026-001636 Consideration of a resolution amending Magna’s land use fee schedule to
the July 9th Planning Commission meeting.

Commissioner Cripps motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner White seconded that motion.

                                      BUSINESS MEETING (Cont.)

                                        Meeting began at – 6:29 p.m.
   3) (Continued discussion) The Planning Commission and planning staff will have a discussion
      regarding an Overview of Magna’s General Plan, Zoning Ordinances, and possible amendments.

       Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding training and guidance, consider
       workshops with the council pertaining to code enforcement and transparency, businesses
       conducting business within residential areas, and impacting neighborhoods.

       Mr. Tucker advised the Council to request staff to create an ordinance to put a cap on bars, tattoo
       parlors, and smoke shops.

       Annually send to the state all land available for development including small lots. Running list of

Magna Planning Commission – June 11, 2026 – Meeting Summary                                    Page 2 of 3
       code amendments.

Commissioner Larson motioned to adjourn, Commissioner White seconded that motion.


                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:04 p.m.




Magna Planning Commission – June 11, 2026 – Meeting Summary                         Page 3 of 3
                                                        Zone Change Staff Report

Meeting Body: Planning                                               DESCRIPTION
Commission                             The applicant, Jose Salas, is looking to rezone the property from A-1/zc to
Meeting Date: July 9, 2026             R-1-6. The purpose of the rezone is to subdivide the property into two
                                       properties. The applicant is seeking to split off the backyard to put a
File Number & Project Type:
                                       home there.
REZ2026-001592
                                                           SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION
Current Zone: A-1/zc

Proposed Zone: R-1-6                      Surrounding Zoning and Use
                                          North     R-1-6/zc
                                          South     A-1/zc
Address: 7610 W 2820 S                    East      A-1/zc
Planner: Justin Smith, Planner
                                          West      R-1-6/zc
                                          Known Overlays/Site Constraints
Applicant: Jose Salas                     High Liquefaction Potential
Key Findings:                          Located along the north side of 2820 S. Sits along a corner lot with a
                                       gravel road and 2820 S.
    •   Proposed     zoning      is
        compatible           with
        surrounding area
    •   Proposed zoning is in line
        with the Adopted General
        Plan


Staff          Recommendation:
Recommend the recommendation
of approval of the rezone to R-1-6

Exhibits:

    A. Narrative and Site Plan
    B. Legal Description




                                      Rezone application number: REZ2026-001592 Date: 7/9/2026 | Page 1 of 5
Rezone application number: REZ2026-001592 Date: 7/9/2026 | Page 2 of 5
                                 GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The Magna General Plan was adopted in 2021. This property is shown to be in the Northeast
Neighborhood Area as shown in the Adopted General Plan on page 28. The General Plan calls out this
property as currently having a residential use and for the future land use the General Plan (shown on
page 40) shows that this area is designated as a residential mixed density area. Residential Mixed
Density areas are further described on page 42. The target density is single family and duplex zoning to
achieve roughly 5 dwelling units per acre with target building heights being 1-3 stories in height.
                            APPLICABLE FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION
Table 19.16.080 includes the following guidelines a planning commission and Council may consider in
deciding zoning map and text amendments:



                              Rezone application number: REZ2026-001592 Date: 7/9/2026 | Page 3 of 5
GUIDELINES FOR CONSIDERING ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS

1. The proposed amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.

2. The proposed amendment promotes the public health, safety and welfare.

3. The proposed amendment is a more suitable zoning classification for the property than the current
classification.

4. The proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of this Ordinance.


5. The proposed amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to existing requirements,
or reflects a change in policy.

6. The proposed amendment benefits the citizens of the Municipality as a whole.

7. The proposed amendment does not create a significant number of nonconformities.

8. The proposed amendment is compatible with the trend of development, if any, in the general area
of the property in question.




                                             PUBLIC INPUT
As of writing this staff report on June 25, 2026 there have not been any comments from the public. If
there are any that were provided between the release of this staff report and the time of the Magna
Planning Commission meeting, then those comments will be shared with the members of the Magna
Planning Commission.

The rezone application has received some comments from MSD staff during the review process. None of
the comments pertain to the rezone itself, but pertain to potential future applications at this address.
Unified Fire Authority has commented that Craig Rocky Vince Lane does not meet Fire Lane access
requirements to be 18 feet wide. Engineering has also noted that any future road improvements would
have to comply with Title 14. The Health Department has provided a comment stating that water and
sewer availability letter would be required. That will be necessary for when the applicant submits an
application to develop the lot. Building an ADU or subdividing the lot would both require that the owner
provide a water and sewer availability letter as part of the process.

                                SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATION
Summary of issues:

The applicant is seeking to rezone this lot from A-1/zc to R-1-6. The purpose of this rezone is to
subdivide the property in the future into two different lots in harmony with the density pattern for this

                              Rezone application number: REZ2026-001592 Date: 7/9/2026 | Page 4 of 5
area in the adopted general plan. The zoning condition in place on this property restricts the applicant
from having a dwelling group on the property. The A-1 zone formerly required that the property be
10,000 square feet in size, but with the code updates that were approved in 2023 that requirement
changed to a minimum area of 1 acre. The current property does not comply with the current
requirements of the A-1 zone, while it would be able to comply with the R-1-6 zone. The R-1-6 zone
would also allow for there to be a second property in what is currently a backyard. The second property
in the rear would likely have to be subdivided under the flag lot requirements in Title 18. Flag lots that
are under 1.5 acres in size are required to either be 1.5 times the minimum lot size requirement or meet
the minimum lot size requirement and have an access easement large enough that when combined with
the lot, it adds up to 1.5 times the minimum lot size requirement.

Craig Rocky Vince Lane is not a public road but is privately owned by the same landowner that lives at
the north end of the road. Craig Rocky Vince Lane somewhat lines up with Oshea Lane from the Gabler’s
Grove neighborhood to the north, but it is not wide enough in its current form to fully line up with
Oshea Lane. Craig Rocky Vince Road is currently 16.5 feet wide and would have to widened to 18 feet to
meet Fire Lane requirements. Oshea Lane to the north is full 50 foot right-of-way. Magna’s adopted
transportation plan does show Craig Rocky Vince as a future public street.

The proposed R-1-6 zone is more compatible for the property than the current A-1/zc zone. The A-1
zone has been updated to have a minimum area requirement of 1 acre and a minimum width of 100
feet. This property does not meet either of those requirements as it is 0.43 acres (roughly 18,730 square
feet) in size, 99 feet wide, and 190.5 feet deep. If the applicant were to be required to dedicate 10 feet
of their property for a future right-of-way then the property would be roughly 89 feet wide. Two
properties that are roughly 89 feet wide and 95 feet deep would be able to meet the lot size
requirements of the R-1-6 zone. The R-1-6 zone requires that each property be a minimum of 6,000
square feet and 60 feet wide, but a 89 foot by 95 foot property would be roughly 8,400 square feet.

The applicant is proposing to rezone the land in order to subdivide for two single family homes. This
matches the general trend in the area of single family homes. In addition, the land to the north is
already zoned R-1-6/zc.

On May 15, 2026, this rezone went to the Magna City Planning Commission. The owner of Craig Rocky
Vince Lane has changed which could affect the future subdivision and design, but there is enough square
footage to meet flag lot requirements. The Magna City Planning Commission recommended approval of
the rezone from A-1/zc to R-1-6.

This item went to the Magna City Council on June 23, 2026. The item was sent back to the Magna
Planning Commission due to some confusion regarding the zone that was being sought after, the lot
sizes, as well as how much land would have to be dedicated.

Recommendation:

The Magna City Planning Commission recommended approval of the rezone from A-1/zc to R-1-6 on
May 15, 2026.




                              Rezone application number: REZ2026-001592 Date: 7/9/2026 | Page 5 of 5
                                                 Ordinance Amendment

Meeting Body:                                                PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Magna Planning Commission            Each year, the Council adopts a fee schedule for all fees collected by the
                                     MSD in behalf of Magna, including land use, business license, building
Meeting Date:                        permit, code enforcement, and engineering fees. Per Utah Code, fees
July 9, 2026                         specific to land use applications must be considered by the planning
                                     commission for recommendation prior to the Council taking action to
File Number & Project Type:
                                     adopt the fee schedule. The adoption of the fee schedule is based on the
OAM2026-001636                       fiscal budget year (July 1 – June 30).
Adoption of the 2026-2027 fee
schedule
                                                                 PUBLIC INPUT
                                     Planning Staff has not received any comments from the public as of the
Planner: Curtis Woodward
                                     completion of this staff report. Any comments that are received will be
                                     forwarded to the Planning Commission for review at the public hearing on
Key Findings:                        July 9.

•   Per Utah Code, planning                          ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION
    commission is required as part
                                     Analysis and Summary:
    of the land use fee schedule
    adoption process.                The only change to the “Land Use” application fee section of the fee
Staff Recommendation:
                                     schedule is to change “Simple Conditional Use Permit” to “Simple Land
                                     Use Permit” in the fee table. This is due to the fact that most of the
Recommendation of approval to        applicable uses on the list are now either permitted uses or are covered
the Council                          under the “temporary uses” chapter of the code.
Exhibits:
                                     Recommendation:
A. Explanation Memo
                                     Planning staff recommends that the planning commission forward a
B. Proposed Fee Schedule
                                     recommendation for approval to the Council.



                                                      PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
                                     As a recommending body to the Council, the planning commission has
                                     the following options:

                                     1.      Approval: The planning commission recommends approval of
                                     the 2026-2027 land use fee schedule as presented.




               Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2026-001636          Date: July 9, 2026 | Page 1 of 2
2. Approval with changes: The planning commission recommends approval of the 2026-2027 land
   use fee schedule with the following changes:
       a. …
3. Denial: The planning commission recommends approval of the 2026-2027 land use fee schedule
   as presented.




  Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2026-001636        Date: July 9, 2026 | Page 2 of 2
                                      STAFF REPORT ADDENDUM

Date: June 8, 2026

From: Brian Hartsell, Associate General Manager, MSD

RE: Fee Schedule Update


Issue Summary
The MSD administers the County, City and Town fee schedules of its member communities. The fee
schedule is reviewed and updated regularly, sometimes annually, then approved by the Council. Often
these updates are a result of new legislation that impacts how fees are charged or administered. The
core of the fee schedule is common to all entities within the boundaries of the Municipal Services District
with customization as desired and approved by each jurisdiction. The commonality where applicable
facilitates efficient administration of the schedule.
Last year, after careful review of the land use regulation definition (as provided in 10-9a-103(34)(a)) and
upon guidance by the SLCo District Attorney’s Office our land use legal team at Smith Hartvigsen, certain
fees (such as building permit fees) found in the County, City and Town fee schedules should be
considered part of the “land use regulation definition.” Therefore, beginning last year fees related to
land use were considered by your Planning Commission as provided in 10-9a-302(1)(b) and, after a public
hearing at the Planning Commission meeting, a recommendation was brought to City/Town/County
council.
Fee Schedule Updates
A few key changes you may have noted in the redline schedule include:
   -   Updated valuation table used to calculate building permits as provided by the International
       Code Council (ICC). This is a regular and predictable update to the schedule.
   -   A change of the re-inspection fee from $50 to $100, and the overtime/after-hours inspection
       fee from $120 to $150. These adjustments reflect average actual time, fuel and vehicle costs
       and to encourage readiness at the initial inspection so that a reinspection or untimely
       inspection is not even needed.
   -   Adding “or violating a stop work order” to “building or grading without a permit” as a reason
       for a fee to be assessed. Also, changing the base fee to $1,000 or 200%, which ever is greater.
       200% of a very small base fee may not be seen as a deterrent in some cases. Fees are not
       intended as a revenue generator, but to encourage compliance.



                Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District • 860 W Levoy Dr, Ste 300
                     Taylorsville, UT 84123 • (385) 910-5600 MSD.UTAH.GOV
   -   Clarification that plan check fees apply to up to four reviews prior to building permit issuance.
       This helps ensure a single fee is being applied to scenarios where updates to plans are not being
       made and plan checks are occurring at high volume without a fee increase.
   -   Clarification that plan check fees “small projects” includes residential solar plan checks.
   -   Change Simple Conditional Use Permit to “Simple Land Use Permit” since many of these uses
       are now permitted uses rather than conditional uses due to code or state statute updates.
   -   Clarification on Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plans (SWPPP) oversite inspections, including
       impact of seasonal closures.
   -   Adding parking violation fee updates where applicable
   -   Clarification of individual vs non-individual special event violations. Reducing individual fee
       amount to $1,000 consistent with UCA 10-3-703 and Title 76-3-301(1)(d).
   -   Update of engineering fees to include excavation permit fee amounts per Title 14 instead of
       having the fees buried in the code. Also, eliminating some of the calculations based on a
       percentage of construction costs and changing to set fees to make fees more modest and
       consistent with other jurisdictions.

Recommendation
Approve the updated Fee Schedule with an effective date of Jul 1, 2026 at the earliest or the date of
the meeting approved in if later. The approval should also authorize the ability for MSD Staff to make
non-substantive changes to facilitate formatting, grammar and other changes to support publishing the
schedule.




               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District • 860 W Levoy Dr, Ste 300
                    Taylorsville, UT 84123 • (385) 910-5600 MSD.UTAH.GOV
                                                 Ordinance Amendment

Meeting Body:                                                PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Magna Planning Commission            H.B. 41, passed by the Utah Legislature in 2026, has amended 15A-2-103
                                     of the Utah Code to specify that the 2024 edition of the International
Meeting Date:                        Wildland-Urban Interface Code is the edition adopted by the State of
July 9, 2026                         Utah. This ordinance amendment is to keep Magna Code in line with
                                     state code.
File Number & Project Type:

OAM2026-001644

Amending 15.08.011 of the Magna
                                                                 PUBLIC INPUT
Code to replace the 2006 Utah        No public comments have been received as of the completion of this staff
Wildland Urban Interface Code        report. Any comments that are received will be forwarded to the Planning
with the 2024 International          Commission for review and will be summarized at the hearing on July 9.
Wildland Urban Interface Code.

Planner:

Curtis Woodward                                      ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION

Key Findings:                        Analysis and Summary:

•   HB41 (2026 general session)      The 2024 edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code
    requires all municipalities to   (IWUIC) has been adopted by the State of Utah as being adopted and
    adopt this code.                 endorsed by the International Code Council. As a more up to date version
                                     of the code, the 2024 IWUIC acknowledges the use of currently available
Staff Recommendation:
                                     fire-resistant construction techniques and materials.

Positive recommendation to the       Recommendation:
Council                              Planning Staff recommends that the planning commission forward a
Exhibits:                            positive recommendation to the Council for adoption.
A. Proposed ordinance

                                                     PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
                                     As a recommending body to the Council for zoning map amendments and
                                     text changes, the planning commission has the following options:

                                     1.        Approval: The planning commission recommends approval of
                                     application OAM2025-001539 to amend Title 15 of the Magna code as
                                     proposed. Staff Recommendation




               Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2026-001644         Date: July 9, 2026 | Page 1 of 2
2. Approval with changes: The planning commission recommends approval of application
   OAM2025-001539 to amend Title 15 of the Magna code with the following changes:
      a. …
3. Denial: The planning commission recommends denial of application OAM2025-001539 to
   amend Title 15 of the Magna code as proposed.




  Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2026-001644       Date: July 9, 2026 | Page 2 of 2
                                        Planning Commission Staff Report
Meeting Body: Magna Planning                      BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Commission
                                     The Acting City Manager has requested that the Planning Staff
Meeting Date: July 9, 2026
                                     create a proposed ordinance that would enact limits on the
File Number & Project Type:          number of Tattoo and Body Art, Tobacco Specialty Shops, and
OAM2026-001643/Ord. 2026-O-
                                     Pawnbroker establishments based on population to prevent an
18 - Limits on Tattoo Parlors,
                                     overabundance of such businesses locating in Magna. Smith
Tabacco     Specialty   Shops,
Pawnbrokers, and Check Cashing       Hartvigsen, Magna’s contracted legal firm, has circulated a draft
in Magna                             Title 5: Business Licenses and Regulations, that would repeal the
Applicability: Citywide              current language and replace it with an ordinance created
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning
                                     specifically for Magna. The Planning Staff took the relevant
Manager                              chapters from the Smith Hartvigsen draft concerning Tattoo
Applicant: Magna Staff
                                     Parlors, Tobacco Specialty Shops, Pawnbrokers, and Check
                                     Cashing and incorporated that language into this draft ordinance.
Key Findings:
                                     In addition, some of these businesses have specific land use
• Socioeconomic blight and
                                     standards associated with them. Staff have updated these specific
  storefront degradation can be
  associated with over-              use standards to ensure that the land use standards are contained
  concentrations of secondary        in Title 19, and the licensing requirements are contained in Title 5.
  financial institutions,
                                                          PROPOSED ORDINANCE
• High concentrations of pawn
  brokers are sometimes              The proposed ordinance:
  correlated with elevated levels
  of property crime                  - Creates two additional business license categories, “Tattoo and
                                     Body Art”, and “Pawnbrokers, Secondhand Merchandise Dealers,
• Density limitations for tobacco
  specialty shops can keep the       Catalytic Converter Operations, Secondary Metals Dealers or
  tobacco industry from              Recyclers, and Similar Businesses”
  disproportionately targeting
                                     - Amends the “Pawn Shop” specific use standard in Title 19 to
  vulnerable demographics
                                     include “Secondhand Merchandise Dealers, Catalytic Converter
Staff Recommendation: The
                                     Operations, Secondary Metals Dealers or Recyclers, and Similar
MSD Planning Staff recommend
that   the   Magna    Planning       Businesses”
Commission recommend that the
                                     - Enacts a density limit of 1 business per 10,000 Magna residents
Council approve the attached
                                     for each of the Check Cashing, Tattoo and Body Art, Tobacco
ordinance.
                                     Specialty Shops, and Pawnbroker (etc.) business categories,
Exhibits:
    A. Proposed Ordinance


                   [OAM2026-001643 / Density Limitations for certain businesses / July 9, 2026] | Page 1 of 3
   -   Removes references to Salt Lake County, replacing them with Magna City,

   -   Where appropriate, refers to state statutes in addition to City requirements,

   -   Adds language in Title 5 that notifies applicants and uses to the specific use standards
       in Title 19: Zoning, noting that the license is subject to land use approval,

   -   Eliminates land use regulations from Title 5, these being moved to Title 19,

   -   Eliminates business licensing regulations from Title 19, these being moved to Title 5,

   -   Adds Land Use Definitions to Title 19 for:

           o Catalytic Convertor Operations,

           o Community Location,

           o Secondary Metals Dealer or Recycler, and

           o Secondhand Merchandise Dealer.

                                  STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

   •   Density controls on check cashing prevent an over-concentration of high-cost financial
       services in one area, mitigating neighborhood blight and the perception that a
       community is targeted by predatory lending,

   •   Limiting check cashing businesses ensures that commercial spaces are available for a
       broader mix of essential services, such as traditional banks, grocery stores, and
       pharmacies,

   •   High concentrations of pawn brokers are sometimes correlated with elevated levels of
       property crime. Density limits prevent "fringe financial" clusters from becoming
       marketplaces or transaction hubs for stolen goods,

   •   By restricting access and geographic convenience, zoning limits attempt to interrupt
       cycles of high-cost, short-term borrowing and repeated fee accumulation associated
       with predatory lending,

   •   Socioeconomic blight and storefront degradation can be associated with over-
       concentrations of secondary financial institutions,

   •   Limits on the number of Pawnshops, Secondhand Merchandise Dealers, Catalytic
       Converter Operations and similar businesses reduces the administrative burden on
       municipal police departments, allowing for easier, more efficient tracking of
       transactions and stolen property holds,

            [OAM2026-001643 / Density Limitations for certain businesses / July 9, 2026] | Page 2 of 3
   •   The proliferation of Tattoo and Body Art Parlors can drive down service prices,
       potentially tempting "bad actors" to cut corners on sanitization and safety to save
       money,

   •   The proliferation of Tattoo and Body Art Parlors can hinder local health departments
       in effectively inspecting, monitoring, and regulating these establishments,

   •   Limitations based on population for tobacco specialty shops can keep the tobacco
       industry from disproportionately targeting vulnerable demographics, leading to
       environmental health disparities, and

   •   Capping the density of these tobacco specialty shops curbs secondary issues like
       loitering, illicit sales, and zoning conflicts with surrounding residential or commercial
       properties.

Given the above findings, staff recommend the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Magna Planning Commission recommend that
the Council approve the attached ordinance.




           [OAM2026-001643 / Density Limitations for certain businesses / July 9, 2026] | Page 3 of 3
Ordinance No. 2026-O-18
OAM 2026-001643 - Limits on Tattoo Parlors, Tabacco Specialty Shops,
Pawnbrokers, and Check Cashing in Magna

                    Exhibit 1- REGULATIONS FOR CHECK CASHERS/CASHING

CHAPTER 5.12 CHAPTER 5.13 CHECK CASHERS PROHIBITIONS

5.12.010 5.13.010 Definitions
A. As used in this chapter:
   1. "Check casher" or "check cashing business" means an entity engaged in the business of
      check cashing.
   2. "Check cashing" means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred
      deposit loan (as defined by the Check Cashing Regulation Act of the Utah Code) but does
      not restrict the activities of depository institutions or persons who cash a check in a
      transaction that is incidental to the retail sale of goods or services for consideration that
      does not exceed the greater of one percent of the amount of the check or one dollar.
   3. "Title loan" means a loan secured by the title to a motor vehicle, mobile home, or motor
      boat, as defined by state statute. "Title loan" does not include a purchase money loan or
      loan made in connection with the sale of a motor vehicle, mobile home, or motor boat.

5.12.020 5.13.020 Check Casher Regulation
A. The Salt Lake Countycity cCouncil finds that the regulation of check cashers is:
   1. A serious matter which affects the prosperity and welfare of the residents of Salt Lake
      CountyMagna;
   2. Appropriately the responsibility of the governments of the United States and of the state
      of Utah; and
   3. Inadequately performed at the present time by the federal and state governments so as
      to protect the welfare of the citizens of Salt Lake County.

5.12.030 5.13.030 Limitations
In addition to state statutes and federal provisions that govern check cashing and deferred
deposit lending, Utah Code, Title 7, Chapter 23, the City provides:
A. The total number of check cashers in the unincorporated countyCity shall not exceed one (1)
   check casher per ten thousand (10,000) population of the unincorporated countyCity.
B. Check cashers must provide to patrons a complete written description of the services
   provided by the check casher, which description is approved by the Utah State Department
   of Financial Institutions.
C. A business engaged in offering title loans is not subject to the provisions of this section
   unless it engages in a check casher business at the same location.

5.12.040 Land Use Approval
Check Casher establishments are subject to the specific use standards in Subsection 19.42.120
Check Cashing.

5.12.050 License – Fees

Fees: The license fee for each of the occupations regulated by this chapter shall be as adopted in
Magna’s adopted fee schedule.

19.42.120 CHECK CASHING
Check cashing and other non-depository financial institutions, if allowed as a permitted or
conditional use in the applicable zone, are also subject to the following standards:

A. Establishments shall be located no closer than one mile from other similar establishments;
B. Use activities shall be limited to short term title loan and short-term consumer installment
   loan business;
C. The following services are specifically prohibited: "cash for gold", "cash for precious metals",
   and the processing or storage of repossessed vehicles or other repossessed property; and
D. All business activity, including customer queuing, shall be accommodated inside the building.
E. Business Licensure. Land uses regulated under this subsection must be licensed for business
   and are subject to the business license regulations in Title 5 of this municipal code.
              Exhibit 2 – REGULATIONS FOR TATTOO AND BODY ART BUSINESSES

CHAPTER 5.13 TATTOO AND BODY ART BUSINESSES

5.13.010 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
A. “Tattoo and Body Art Establishments” means a business engaged primarily in the practice of
   physical body adornment or modification, including but not limited to body piercing,
   tattooing, branding or scarification.

5.13.020 Health Department Approval
All Tattoo and Body Art establishments shall obtain and maintain in good standing a proper
license from the Salt Lake County Health Department.

5.13.030 Limitations
A. Tattoo and Body Art establishments may not be located closer than six hundred (600) feet to
   any other such establishment as defined, or to any church, school or other community
   gathering place.
B. The number of such facilities licensed within the city limits may not exceed one per every
   ten thousand (10,000) or portion thereof of the most recent United States Census Bureau
   estimated population of Magna City.
C. The hours of operation are limited to between 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
D. No minors shall be allowed on the premises without an accompanying adult guardian.

5.13.040 License – Fees

Fees: The license fee for each of the occupations regulated by this chapter shall be as adopted in
Magna’s adopted fee schedule.

                Exhibit 3 – REGULATIONS FOR TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESSES

CHAPTER 5.21 TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESSES

5.21.010 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
A. "Tobacco specialty business" means the same as "retail tobacco specialty business" as
   defined in Utah Code § 17-50-333(1)(b). a commercial retail establishment that, through
   signage, floor space allocation, or sales revenue, demonstrates it is substantially engaged in
   the offer and sale of tobacco products as provided in state code at a minimum. Any one or
   more of the following factors indicate the operation of a tobacco specialty business:

   1. The sale of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty five percent (35%) of the total
      quarterly gross receipts for the establishment for two (2) successive calendar quarters; to
      facilitate the City's perception of this factor, a licensee operating a retail sales business
      that includes the offer of tobacco products shall send to the City's business license official
      quarterly gross sales information within fifteen (15) business days of the end of each
      calendar quarter. This quarterly data provision requirement does not apply to businesses
      already licensed as a tobacco specialty business, or to business locations within which an
      area is licensed by the state of Utah as a pharmacy;

   2. The name of the business evidences holding oneself out as a tobacco specialty business
      by using terms, including smoke shop, smoker, smoking, cigar, vape, vapor, huka, or other
      words typically used to describe tobacco products.

   3. The allocation of floor or shelf space inside the business is allocated 20% or more to the
      offer, display, or storage of tobacco products, electronic cigarette products, and nicotine
      products .

   4. The retail space features a self-service display for tobacco products, electronic cigarette
      products, or nicotine products.

   5. The commercial establishment holds itself out as a tobacco specialty business and causes
      a reasonable person to believe the commercial establishment is a retail tobacco specialty
      business.

B. Tobacco product" means any substance or product as defined in Utah Code § 17-50-333(1)(c)
   Ann. §§ 10-8-41.6 and 76-10-101.

5.21.020 License Required
It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct, carry on or maintain a tobacco specialty
business without first obtaining from the county license official a license to operate a tobacco
specialty business and in compliance with proximity requirements, a permit by the local health
department, a valid license by the State Tax Commission, and certain effective dates as provided
in Utah Code 19.030 License-Fees.
5.21.030 License--Fees
The annual fee for a tobacco specialty business shall be as set forth in Section 5.08.040Magna’s
adopted fee schedule of this code.

5.21.040 Application and Issuance Restrictions
A. Each individual applying for a tobacco specialty business license shall:
   1. Identify the location, including the street, building and room number of the place where
      the applicant proposes to operate a tobacco specialty business.
   2. Submit with the license application an affidavit ensuring that the tobacco specialty
      business complies with the proximity requirements of Utah law as of the date of the
      application.
B. The county license officiale:
   1. shall review the application to determine compliance with county City zoning ordinances
      and the proximity requirements set forth in Utah Code § 17-50-333(5)10-8-41.6(4);.
   2. shall approve or deny the application, in compliance with Sections 5.02.010 through
      5.02.140; and
   3. may not approve a business license or tobacco specialty business license to any
      applicant who does not meet the proximity requirements or density limitations.

   4. In accordance with the procedures described in Sections 5.02.010 through 5.02.140 of
      this title, the license office shall then submit the application to the mayor for further
      review and a final determination on approval.
   5. The county license office shall not recommend issuance of a business license or tobacco
      specialty business license to any applicant who does not meet the proximity
      requirements.

C. Any appeal of a licensing decision by the mayor license official shall be heard in accordance
   with the provisions of Sections 5.02.140 through 5.02.180 of this title.

5.21.050 License--Display Required
Every tobacco specialty business licensed under this chapter shall display its tobacco specialty
business license in a conspicuous place on the premises.
5.21.060 Density Limitation
No more than one (1) retail tobacco specialty business per ten thousand (10,000) residents or
portion thereof of the most recent United States Census Bureau estimated population shall be
permitted within the city.

5.21.070 Unlawful Conduct and Activities

A. In addition to the restrictions and limitations contained in this chapter, and as set forth under
   state law, a licensee under this chapter may not:
   1. Engage in a pattern of unlawful activity as set forth under Utah state law;
   2. Violate the regulations restricting the sale and distribution of cigarettes and smokeless
      tobacco to protect children and adolescents issued by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration, 21 C.F.R. Part 1140; or
   3. Engage in any act prohibited by the provisions of the Utah Controlled Substances Act, the
      Imitation Controlled Substances Act, the Utah Controlled Substance Precursor Act, the
      Clandestine Drug Lab Act, or any other provision of law, whether federal, state or local,
      providing for the prohibition or regulation of activities related to the sale or consumption
      of controlled substances or imitation controlled substances.
B. The county license section shall work with local law enforcement to enforce the provisions of
   this section.

5.21.080 Revocation and Suspension Decisions--Appeals

A. In addition to the grounds for suspension or revocation set forth in Chapter 5.07, every
   tobacco specialty business license issued by the county may be revoked or suspended for any
   violation of this chapter.
B. Issues regarding revocation or suspension of a tobacco specialty license shall be heard and
   decided in accordance with the procedures established in Section 5.07.020 through 5.07.030
   of this title.
C. Appeals of decisions to revoke or suspend a tobacco specialty license shall be heard by the
   county council in accordance with procedures established in Sections 5.02.140 through
   5.02.180 of this title.
5.21.090 Land Use Approval
Tobacco Specialty Businesses are subject to the specific use standards in Subsection 19.42.260
Retail Tobacco Specialty Business.

19.42.260 RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS

A. For the purposes of this Section:
   1. Community location” means:
       a. Public or private kindergarten, elementary, middle, junior high, or high School;
       b. Licensed child-care facility or preschool;
       c. Trade or technical school;
       d. Church, mosque, temple, or other religious building;
       e. Public library;
       f. Public playground;
       g. Public park;
       h. Youth center or other space used primarily for youth-oriented activities;
       i.   Public recreational facility; or
       j.   Public arcade.
   2. “Retail Tobacco Specialty Business” means a commercial establishment in which:
       a. The sale of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the
          total annual gross receipts for the establishment;
       b. Food and beverage products, excluding gasoline sales, is less than forty-five percent
          (45%) of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment; and
       c. The establishment is not licensed as a pharmacy under Title 58, Chapter 17b,
          Pharmacy Practice Act.
   3. “Tobacco product” means:
       a. Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette as defined in Utah Code §76-10-101;
       b. A tobacco product as defined in Utah Code §59-14-102, including:
            i.   Chewing tobacco; or
            ii. Any substitute for a tobacco product, including flavoring or additives to tobacco;
                and
       c. Tobacco paraphernalia as defined in Utah Code §76-10-104.1.
B. A Retail Tobacco Specialty Business may not be located within:
   1. One thousand feet (1,000’) of a Community Location;
   2. Six hundred feet (600’) of another Retail Tobacco Specialty Business; or
   3. Six hundred feet (600’) of a Residential or Agricultural Zone or Use.
C. For the purposes of Subsection 19.42.260.B above, the proximity requirements shall be
   measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of the retail tobacco specialty business
   to the nearest property boundary of the community location, retail tobacco specialty
   business, or agricultural or residential zone or use, without regard for intervening structures
   or zones.
D. A retail tobacco specialty business that has a business license and was operating lawfully on
   or before May 8, 2012, is exempt from the requirements of Subsection 19.42.260.B if said
   business meets all of the following criteria:
   1. The business license has been renewed continuously without relapse or permanent
      revocation;
   2. The retail tobacco specialty business has not closed for business or otherwise suspended
      the sale of Tobacco Products for more than sixty (60) consecutive days;
   3. The retail tobacco specialty business does not substantially change the business premises
      or its business operation; and
   4. The retail tobacco specialty business maintains the right to operate under the terms of
      other applicable laws, including but not limited to zoning ordinances, building codes, and
      the business license that was issued prior to May 8, 2012.
E. Business Licensure. Land uses regulated under this subsection must be licensed for business
   and are subject to the business license regulations in Title 5 of this municipal code.
   Exhibit 4 – REGULATIONS FOR PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND MERCHANDISE DEALERS,
  CATALYTIC CONVERTER OPERATIONS, SECONDARY METALS DEALERS OR RECYCLERS, AND
                                 SIMILAR BUSINESSES

CHAPTER 5.24 PAWNBROKERS, SECONDHAND MERCHANDISE DEALERS, CATALYTIC
CONVERTER OPERATIONS, SECONDARY METALS DEALERS OR RECYCLERS, AND SIMILAR
BUSINESSES

5.24.010 Definitions

A. For the purposes of this chapter, the definitions of “Pawnbrokers”, “Secondhand Merchandise
   Dealers”, and “Catalytic Convertor Operations” provided in Utah Code § 13-32a-102 shall
   apply.

B. For the purposes of this chapter, the definition of “Secondary Metals Dealer or Recycler”
   provided in Utah Code § 76-6-1402 shall apply.

C. For the purposes of this chapter, the definition of “Community Location” provided in Utah
   Code § 32B-1-102 shall apply.

5.24.020 License Required; Application; Fees

A. Required:

   1. It is unlawful for any person to carry on the business of pawnbroker, secondhand
      merchandise dealer, catalytic converter operations, secondary metals dealers or recyclers,
      and similar businesses without first obtaining a license to operate in compliance with this
      chapter. The City shall require a separate license for each location and for the conduct of
      business by each dealer;

   2. If, during the license year, there is a change in the information that the applicant provided
      in the license application or renewal application, the licensee shall report the change in
      writing to the business licensing official within thirty (30) days after the change occurs and
      certify that the information is true and correct under the penalties of perjury.

B. Application For License:

   1. The applicant shall complete the license application or renewal form prepared by the
      business licensing official, and certify that the information given is true and correct under
      the penalties of perjury;
   2. The applicant for a dealer's license shall provide any necessary information required by
      the chief of police and the business licensing official, including a statement that the
      applicant authorizes the police department or any other law enforcement agency to
      inspect the books, records, inventory, or premises of the business during normal business
      hours;

   3. Only individuals may apply for a license under this chapter:

       a. If the applicant submits an application for a license for a corporation or a limited
          partnership, the City license official may issue the license to the president of the
          corporation or members of the partnership only who are authorized to act for it;

       b. If the applicant submits an application for a partnership, the City license official may
          issue the license to all of the partners who are authorized to act for the partnership.
          If any partner is a corporation or a limited partnership, the application shall be made
          by and issued to the president of the corporation or to an individual as general partner
          for the limited partnership;

       c. Any individual who applies for a license under this chapter shall assume all
          responsibilities of the dealer and is subject to any conditions, restrictions, or
          requirements imposed on dealers;

   4. The police department shall conduct a background investigation into the applicant,
      recommend a favorable consideration of the applicant, and approve the application prior
      to issuance of the license. An applicant may not be authorized to conduct any business
      until the license official approves the and the applicant has complied with any other
      licensing and bonding provisions contained in this chapter.

C. Fees: The license fee for each of the occupations regulated by this chapter shall be established
   by resolution of the Council.

5.24.030 Business Location; Supplemental License

A. Business Location: A dealer, including a pawnbroker, secondhand merchandizer, antiques
   dealer, automated recycling kiosk operator, or catalytic converter purchaser, may conduct the
   licensed business only from the fixed permanent location identified in the license application.
   The fixed permanent location may not be a motel or hotel room generally used by transients.

B. Supplemental License: A dealer, including a pawnbroker, secondhand merchandizer, antiques
   dealer, automated recycling kiosk operator, or catalytic converter purchaser, may not remove
   or relocate the location specified in the license for the business or open any additional
   location unless the person has applied for and obtained a supplemental license from the
   business licensing official.

5.24.040 Zoning, Land Use, and Density Restrictions

A. Zoning Restrictions: It is unlawful for any business licensed under this chapter to do business
   at any location within the City not zoned for such business.

B. Land Use Approval: Businesses licensed under this chapter are subject to the specific use
   standards in Subsection 19.42.230 Pawn Shops, Secondhand Merchandise Dealers, Catalytic
   Converter Operations, Secondary Metals Dealers, and Similar Businesses.

C. Density Restrictions: The number of businesses licensed under this chapter within the city
   limits may not exceed one per every ten thousand (10,000) or portion thereof of the most
   recent United States Census Bureau estimated population of Magna City.

5.24.050 License Bond

The applicant for a license shall post a cash or satisfaction corporate surety bond, with the license
official in compliance with this chapter and in a form acceptable to the City, payable to the City in
the amount of $2,500.00. The City shall assess any criminal or civil fine against the business,
officers, or managers for a violation of City ordinances and the fines shall be paid through this
bond if not paid in cash within 10 days after notice of the fine. If an appeal is filed as provided by
this chapter, the fine may not be collected until the appeal is resolved. If funds are drawn against
the cash or surety bond to pay the fine, the licensee shall replenish the bond to $2,500.00 within
15 days of the date of notice of any draw against it.

5.24.060 Grounds for Refusal, Suspension, Or Revocation of License

The City may refuse to grant a license under this chapter and may suspend, revoke, or refuse to
renew the license of any person if it finds:

A. The person has violated or is attempting to violate any provision of this chapter;

B. A similar license issued to the person has been suspended, revoked or refused in another
   jurisdiction for a reason which would justify such an action under this chapter.

C. Any officer, manager, agent, or employee of the individual or dealer has violated or is
   attempting to violate any provisions of this chapter unless the individual or dealer:

   1. Had no knowledge of the wrongful conduct and in the exercise of reasonable diligence
      could not have known of the conduct; and
    2. Was unable to prevent the violation or attempted violation with the exercise of reasonable
       diligence; or

D. The person or dealer has been convicted of theft or receiving stolen property on one or more
   occasions within the past 5 years.

5.24.070 Compliance with State Law

All businesses licensed under this chapter shall comply with the Utah Pawnshop, Secondhand
Merchandise, and Catalytic Converter Transaction Information Act, Utah Code, Title 13, Chapter
32a, including the statutory requirements for recordkeeping, customer fingerprinting, database
entry, and holding periods. Consistent with Utah Code §§ 13-32a-102.5 and 13-32a-110, the City
may enforce the criminal and civil provisions of this chapter.

5.24.080 False Statements

Any dealer who, in making his or her statement as contemplated in this chapter in selling, offering,
or trying to sell any item identified in this chapter, willfully makes a false statement or gives untrue
information, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor.

5.24.090 Reporting Stolen Items

Reporting Of Stolen or Lost Goods: The licensee shall report to the police department any
information about an article that was stolen or lost and found by the person attempting to pledge
it or sell it or pledged with or sold, pawned or deposited with the licensee, if the licensee has
reason to believe that the article was stolen or lost.

5.24.100 Dealers and Premises; General Regulations

A. Proscribed Sellers: It is unlawful for any licensee under this chapter, his or her agent, servants,
   or employees to receive or purchase any goods, articles, or things in pawn, pledge or sale
   from a person who is intoxicated, obviously mentally deficient, or under the age of 18 years.

B. Employees: It is unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to employ any person under the
   age of 18 years to receive any pledge or make any loan.

C. Licensee Responsible for Acts of Employees: The holder of a license under this chapter is liable
   for any acts or violations of this chapter by the licensee’s employees .

D. Barrier Required Around Open Storage: It is unlawful for the owner or person having control
   of any lot, yard, or any other premises within the City limits to keep, collect, permit, maintain,
   or store in the open thereon, any secondhand merchandise, good, or ware, without enclosing
   the lot, yard, or premises with a solid visual barrier not less than 7 feet high and maintaining
   the barrier in a good condition.

E. Secondhand Merchandise Dealers; Restrictions: It is unlawful for any licensee under this
   chapter as a secondhand merchandise dealer to purchase, barter, exchange, or sell any
   secondhand merchandise other than the same type and character of secondhand
   merchandise which is the licensee’s principal business.

F. Ordinance Posted: It is unlawful for any person to conduct or transact any business licensed
   under this chapter unless the licensee shall keep a copy of this chapter conspicuously posted
   in the place of business.

G. Hours: It is unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to receive or purchase any goods in
   trade, pawn, or pledge or to sell or otherwise dispose of any goods or materials or to keep his
   or her place of business open before 7:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m. of any day including Sunday.

H. Connection With Other Business: It is unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to keep or
   maintain in the same room or rooms with any other business unless prior approval of the
   business licensing official has been obtained. If a partition wall is permitted to separate the
   licensee's business from any other business, the partition wall shall be of solid material with
   any connecting doors or other openings securely closed and locked at all times. Gratings,
   lattice, or similar openwork or contrivance is not a sufficient partition under the provisions
   of this chapter. Any patron shall enter and take exit from licensee's places of business through
   outside doors and entrances.

I. Serial Number; Owner's Personal Identification Mark: No business licensed pursuant to this
   chapter shall receive any item which has obviously had the manufacturer's serial number or
   an owner's personal identification mark altered, defaced, or mutilated or removed.

19.42.230 PAWN SHOPS, SECONDHAND MERCHANDISE DEALERS, CATALYTIC CONVERTER
OPERATIONS, SECONDARY METALS DEALERS, AND SIMILAR BUSINESSES

A. The purpose of regulating pawn shopPawn Shops, Secondhand Merchandise Dealers,
   Catalytic Converter Operations, Secondary Metals Dealers, and Similar Businesses
   establishments is to ensure security and compatibility with surrounding uses and properties
   and to avoid any impacts associated with such uses.
B. Pawn shop eEstablishments regulated under this subsection, when listed as a permitted or
   conditional use in the applicable zone, are subject to the following requirements:
   1. Site location standards. Any land use regulated under this subsection may not operate as
      a home occupation; or locate:
       a. Closer than one thousand (1,000) feet to another land use regulated under this
          subsection, as measured in a straight line between the closest property line of the lots
          on which they are located;
       a.b. The business may not be located wWithin six hundred feet (600’) of a public or
           private school (kindergarten through twelfth grade), church or other religious
           building, public playground, or public park, as measured from any point upon the
           outside walls of the building or building lease space containing the business to the
           nearest property line of the school, church or other religious building, or park site;.
       b.c. The business may not be located Wwithin one hundred feet (100’) of any existing
            residential dwelling or property zoned for residential uses as measured from any point
            upon the outside walls of the building or building lease space containing the business
            to the nearest property line of the residential zoned property; and.
       c.d. The business shall be iIn a location that is not fully visible from a public street with an
            unobstructed view from the public street for public safety.
   2. Operation and development standards.
       a. The business shall have lighting to provide illumination for security and safety of
          parking and access areas in accordance with this Title.
       b. The business window may not be tinted or obscured in any way, including by
          temporary or painted window signs, and the interior lighting of the business shall
          remain at adequate levels to clearly see into the business from the exterior of the
          business.
       c. A sign shall be posted in the front of the business indicating that no loitering is
          permitted per Magna Municipal Code.
C. Business Licensure. Land uses regulated under this subsection must be licensed for business
   and are subject to the business license regulations in Title 5 of this municipal code.
                        Exhibit 5 – ADDITIONAL LAND USE DEFINITIONS

19.04.070 USE DEFINITIONS

A. Uses identified in Title 19 are defined as follows:

“Catalytic Convertor Operations” means a person or business engaged in the sale or purchase of
used catalytic convertors subject to Utah Code 13-32a.
“Community Location” means:

       a. Public or private kindergarten, elementary, middle, junior high, or high School;
       b. Licensed child-care facility or preschool;
       c. Trade or technical school;
       d. Church, mosque, temple, or other religious building;
       e. Public library;
       f. Public playground;
       g. Public park;
       h. Youth center or other space used primarily for youth-oriented activities;
       i.   Public recreational facility; or
       j.   Public arcade.

“Secondary Metals Dealer or Recycler” means the same as “secondary metals dealer or recycler”
as defined in Utah Code § 76-6-1402.

“Secondhand Merchandise Dealer” means the same as "secondhand merchandise dealer" as
defined in Utah Code § 13-32a-102.
