                                      Planning and Development Services
                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




           Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                   Thursday, March 12, 2020 6:30 P.M.

Location
MAGNA WEBSTER CENTER
8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN STREET
MAGNA, 84044
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Approval of the February 13, 2020 meeting minutes
   2) Magna Municipal Code 19.04.293 - Home Daycare/Preschool Amendments
   3) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                     PUBLIC MEETING

31120 – Wei Li is requesting approval to rezone approximately .30 acres of property from the R-
1-6 (Single-Family residential) zone to the R-1-5 (Single-Family residential) zone. Location: 3054
South 8850 West. Planner: Todd A. Draper, AICP

31085- Dominion Energy (Chris Balling) is requesting a Conditional Use approval for a Liquid
Gas Facility Acreage: 160 acres. Location: 1731 South 8000 West. Zone: M-2. Planner: Diana
Martinez


                                           ADJOURN



March 12, 2020                              Page 1 of 1            AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                        MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                Thursday, February 13, 2020 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 16 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 14                                   found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Cripps

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                                                Public      Business
                                Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
         Clare Collard           x           x                                                              Mtg          Mtg
          Dan Cripps             x           x                                Wendy Gurr                      x            x
       Ammon Lockwood                                  x                     Diana Martinez                   x            x
         Aaron Weight            x           x
        Mickey Sudbury           x           x
         Mark Elieson            x           x
        Todd Richards            x           x



                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:30 p.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the January 9, 2020 meeting.
       Motion: To approve minutes from the January 9, 2020 meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Sudbury
             2nd by: Commissioner Collard
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Discussion to reduce the planning commission from seven members to five members for
       recommendation to the Magna Metro Township Council.
        Mr. Springer provided guidance as to what the planning commission wants. Under state code
        deferred to the city, council and planning commission. Recommend to the council to remain as is
        and request two alternate positions filled.
    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
        Ms. Gurr advised the general plan steering committee meeting will kick-off on February 27th and
        the transportation open house will be held March 19th at 6:30pm.



Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – February 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                      Page 1 of 5
                                           PUBLIC HEARINGS
                                       Hearings began at – 6:47 p.m.

31111- Steve Prokopis is requesting a Conditional Use approval for an Oversized Accessory Building
(2,000 square feet). Acreage: 0.52 Location: 7881 W. 3100 So. Planner: Diana Martinez

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the
Staff Report.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Steve Prokopis
Address: 7881 West 3100 South
Comments: Mr. Prokopis said he had questions for staff and got all the answers. When development came
behind, he was in support and sold a portion of his property. Throughout the last four years, eight-foot rock
wall and six-foot fence on top, in their backyard could see their pool. Grade is so much different, big factor
in building garage, block what he can and asked for maximum 40x50, maybe 45x40. Building on the left is
12x41 and is a patio. Added patio and counts as storage under 25%, tuff shed may go, but recommendation
was to tear it out. Access to east neighbors, intent is to be self-efficient and ramp the side of his yard. Nice
driveway.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Elieson seconded that motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Elieson seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #31111, without the recommended condition.
      Motion by: Commissioner Elieson
      2nd by: Commissioner Sudbury
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


31112- Rio Tinto Kennecott Utah Copper (Jeff Stephenson) is requesting a Rezone approval from A-1/zc
(Agricultural) to M-1/zc (Manufacturing). Acreage: Approx. 61.0 acres. Location: 8000 West SR201
South Frontage Road Planner: Diana Martinez

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the
Staff Report.

Commissioners and Staff had a brief discussion regarding permitted and conditional uses prohibited to be
removed prior to the rezone.




Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – February 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                      Page 2 of 5
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Jeff Stephenson
Address: 4700 Daybreak Parkway
Comments: Mr. Stephenson said came through and rezoned east half from 7200 to 7600. Had questions
about canal and Ruth Bayer’s house. Ms. Bayer sold to them and the renting property and removed the
home. Riter canal not sure straighten or reroute. Decided to remain. Worked with UDOT to build frontage
road and exchanged property with UDOT to accelerate the construction of the frontage road. Worked with
the county and state to get funding for a road for an extension of Beagley lane on the southside, West Valley
side. Obtained funding from 7200 to 8000 and cross Riter canal. Four things do essentially prepare the site
and create a buffer between some future uses and residential. Triangle property will be reduced when the
road comes in and into 8000 west.

Commissioner Cripps asked about triangle property reduced. Mr. Stephenson said selling or developing.
Joint venture with DLM development. Approached Ruth Bayer’s family and they weren’t ready to sale and
they approached them. Hope to name one street after her. Commissioner Sudbury said talking about
Beagley and on 7200 south has been put on hold. Mr. Stephenson said not put on hold, only for wetland
issues and then they’ll move forward and waiting on funding. Mr. Stephenson said questions asked. They
anticipate uses similar to east side of 7200 west larger industrial.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Weight seconded that motion.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Wesley Oates
Address: 8671 Florence Drive
Comments: Mr. Oates said he requests denial. Bares some mention sort of neighbor Rio Tinto has been.
Stopped operation of the power plant, without plans to tear down and rust as abandon, not something unique,
it’s not an isolated incident. Rio Tinto offices stood there abandoned and a haven for drug use and
vandalism. Recently torn down. One point, tailings pond at one point in need of repair, Rio Tinto sat on the
information while they continued to gamble with property and lives of residents of Magna. Behavior in the
future and rezoned and manufacturing building, in all respects going fine. This company treats this
community, no more use built in that new zone and a rusting hulk.

Commissioner Elieson said property addressed to be developed by other people and will not be Rio Tinto
managing and running that property. Mr. Oates said Rio Tinto is the current owner selling, rather undercuts
the rezoning. Consider blighted areas around Magna.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Neil Barrick
Address: 2562 South 8000 West
Comments: Mr. Barrick said the corner if he’s selling, come and rezone rather commercial than
manufacturing, right next to residential. No more buildings up 201, concerned about light and make more
problems, no need to rezone and sale to highest manufacturing builder.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Troy Larsen
Address: 2674 South 8000 West




Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – February 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                   Page 3 of 5
Comments: Mr. Larsen said no concerns, problem with piping and houses of thorough. Have a buffer zone,
with canal not rerouted now puts M-1 up to houses without the buffer and little sliver not allowed with
rezone and use not manufacturing. Sale the part abuts house not zone M-1.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Jeremy Black
Address: 7980 Thorough Drive
Comments: Mr. Black said his back is the pie piece. He agrees with Mr. Larsen having a buffer, difficult
to have light with his kids back there.

Speaker # 6: Citizen
Name: Jennifer Andreason
Address: 2546 South 8000 West
Comments: Ms. Andreason said in agreement with pie piece. She purchased for solitude, didn’t see another
house, can’t have a bright light. Heavy trucks are they redoing 8000 west and roads aren’t that good. Done
compaction tests and is not up to standards for heavy trucks.

Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Adele Oates
Address: 8671 Florence Drive
Comments: Ms. Oates said when she was two years old was seeing the smoke coming off the coal plant.
Recognize Rio Tinto stated this area not for their own purposes but sold. Convenient in specific this exact
point this is the exact part of the inland port. While she accepts manufacturing can be a benefit, light
manufacturing and looking for her future and her peers would like to be preserved and grew up knowing
her refuge and her home and would like to see it.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Troy Larsen
Address: 2674 South 8000 West
Comments: Mr. Larsen said to correct the lady, does fall in the inland port boundaries.

Commissioner Sudbury motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Elieson seconded that motion.

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Jeff Stephenson
Address: 4700 Daybreak Parkway
Comments: Mr. Stephenson said he appreciates questions. This property will change in use and will change
historically. Which type of use in the triangle will be determined and a smaller site and less than five acres.
Commercial thinking convenient, others might think retail and later at night, could be mitigated. If not
commercial or industrial, residential. Residential is not his current request.

Commissioner Cripps said M-1 can be zoned residential at a future date. Commissioner Sudbury said the
triangle will reduce, put zoning conditions on there now. Mr. Stephenson said happy to discuss lighting
conditions, nighttime uses. Commissioner Sudbury said 8000 west road is crazy. Mr. Stephenson said colors
change due to ownership changing. Anticipation to 8000 dedicated additional land to widen the road.
Commissioner Cripps said signage and lighting come back to commission. Commissioner Collard said with
canal not rerouted, it was agreed upon to have that triangular piece not included. Mr. Stephenson said his
hesitation made him nervous aiming canal at the homes and leave in place. Mr. Stephenson said as
development is going in, Ivory Homes are required to put in a trail on the southside of the trail and happy



Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – February 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                     Page 4 of 5
with requirement to continue the trail through the property. If you want to exclude triangle, that is
acceptable to the applicant.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding restrictions, changing zoning on triangle. Staff
could support commercial use, if you change to commercial for council, add the same conditions.

Motion: To recommend approval of application #31112 to the Magna Metro Township Council parcel one
for M-1 z/c with recommended conditions, exclude parcel two.
       Motion by: Commissioner Weight
       2nd by: Commissioner Elieson
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Ms. Martinez said there was a discussion with attorneys and will not come back and roadway dedication
will just require the Mayors signature.

Commissioner Weight motioned to adjourn.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:46 p.m.




Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – February 13, 2020 – Meeting Summary                Page 5 of 5
                DRAFT - For Discussion Purposes Only

                                         MAGNA
                                    ORDINANCE 20-02-01

                     HOME DAYCARE/PRESCHOOL AMENDMENTS

    AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL AMENDING
      MAGNA MUNICIPAL CODE 19.04.293 TO CONFORM TO STATE HEALTH
   DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS REGARDING LICENSED HOME DAYCARE AND
                         PRESCHOOL LAND USE

      WHEREAS, A. The Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a municipality pursuant to
Utah Code §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

         WHEREAS, B. The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) is the municipal
legislative body for Magna pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-501.

       WHEREAS, Given the demand for Licensed Home Daycare and Home Preschool, it is
important for Magna to have effective and efficient land use regulation that works with
caregivers pursuing licensing for their proposed home-based daycare and/or preschool.

       WHEREAS, Upon review of Magna ordinance, state law, and Utah State Health
Department Regulations R430-50 and R430-90 that regulate licensed home daycare, it was
determined the existing ordinance was more restrictive, and conflicted with state law.

         WHEREAS, The proposed amendments better conform Magna's regulation of land use
to state law and home daycare/preschool licensing.

        NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of Magna, in the State of Utah, as
follows:


      SECTION 1:          AMENDMENT “19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool” of the
Magna Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                               BEFORE AMENDMENT

19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool

"Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of twelve or
less children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not yet in full day
school within an occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two caregivers if there
are more than six children in a home day care and may further limit the number of children
allowed in a home day care.) A home day care/preschool must meet the following standards:



                                            Page: 1
                DRAFT - For Discussion Purposes Only

     A. When allowed as a permitted use there shall be a maximum of six children without any
        employees not residing in the dwelling. When allowed as a conditional use there shall be
        a maximum of twelve children with not more than one employee at any one time not
        residing in the dwelling;
     B. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;
     C. The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight
        a.m. and nine p.m.;
     D. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the
        dwelling, and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the
        dwelling for any employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall
        be approved by the development services division director to insure that the parking is
        functional and does not change the residential character of the lot;
     E. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;
     F. The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life
        Safety Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);
     G. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other county
        ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, the county shall
        review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a license revocation proceeding
        under Section 5.14.020; and
     H. The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services
        division, all property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's
        property concerning the licensing of a home day care/preschool at such property.

                                 AFTER AMENDMENT

19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool

"Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of twelve or
less children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not yet in full day
school within an occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two caregivers if there
are more than six children in a home day care and may further limit the number of children
allowed in a home day care.) A home day care/preschool must meet the following standards:

     A. When allowed as a permitted use, there shall be a maximum of six children without any
        employees not residing in the dwellingcaregiver and dwelling use regulations must
        comply with Utah Health Department Regulation R430-50 et seq. When allowed as a
        conditional use, there shall be a maximum of twelve children with not more than one
        employee at any one time not residing in the dwellingcaregiver and dwelling use
        regulations must comply with Utah Health Department Regulation R430-90 et seq;
     B. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;
     C. The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight
        a.m. and nine p.m.;




                                             Page: 2
               DRAFT - For Discussion Purposes Only

    D. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the
       dwelling, and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the
       dwelling for any employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall
       be approved by the development services division director to insure that the parking is
       functional and does not change the residential character of the lot;
    E. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;
    F. The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life
       Safety Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);
    G. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other
       countymunicipal ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver,
       the countymunicipality shall review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a
       license revocation proceeding under Section 5.14.020; and
    H. The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services
       division, all property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's
       property concerning the licensing of a home day care/preschool at such property.


       SECTION 2:           EFFECTIVE DATE This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from _______ and after the required approval and publication according to law.



PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE MAGNA COUNCIL _______________________________.

                                         AYE          NAY         ABSENT          ABSTAIN
Council Member Hull
Mayor Peay
Council Member Peel
Council Member Pierce
Council Member Prokopis

Presiding Officer                                    Attest



Dan W. Peay, Mayor, Magna                            Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk/
                                                     Metro Township Clerk-Recorder
                                                     Magna




                                           Page: 3
                                         Planning and Development Services
                                         2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                         Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                         msd.utah.gov




                                                     File #31120


                   Rezone Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: March 12, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-30-208-022
Current Zone: R-1-6
Proposed Zone: R-1-5
Property Address: 3054 South 8850 West
Request: Rezone

Planner: Todd A. Draper, AICP
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval
Applicant Name: Wei Li


                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is proposing to rezone the subject property in order to allow for future subdivision of the property
into two lots.



                            SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located in a neighborhood of existing R-1-6 zoning located to the West of Cyprus High School.
         Request: Rezone                                                  File #: 31120




                                  GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The property is located in a stable area on the General Plan Map. These areas have a limited potential for the
absorption of growth and are likely to experience only minor changes in overall character over time. The level of
stability of Blue area is defined as follows:
          1) Subtle changes in land use may occur. Overall, land uses in the area/corridor will exhibit less diversity
          and less intensity. Changes will be limited to a small number of dispersed sites, leaving the majority of the
          area/corridor unchanged.
          2) Improvements may occur which subtly alter the appearance, economics, or sustainability of the
          area/corridor. Most improvements will consist of individual projects, and may not require coordination
          with parcels beyond their immediate vicinity.
          3) Mobility networks are less formalized and will remain largely as built, but minor changes may occur.
          Public transit typically will have no dedicated right-of-way.

With Regards to Goal 5 of the General Plan regarding housing choices, the following objective is pertinent to the
proposed rezoning of this property:

Objective 5.4: Encourage residential development that establishes a variety of lot sizes, dwelling types, densities,
and price points, as well as an appropriate balance of owner occupied and rental units.

                                         ZONE CONSIDERATIONS
         Requirement                       Existing Zone R-1-6                         Proposed Zone R-1-5
  Height                       35 feet                                       35 feet
  Front Yard Setback           25 feet                                       20 feet
  Side Yard Setback            5 feet and 11 feet or 8 feet each side.       5 feet each side (unless attached)
  Rear Yard Setback            30 feet (15 feet with garage)                 20 feet (15 feet with garage)
  Lot Width                    60 feet min.                                  25 feet min.
  Lot Area                     6,000 sq. ft.                                 5,000 sq. ft.


Rezone                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
         Request: Rezone                                                 File #: 31120



  Compatibility with existing buildings in terms of size, scale and height.              yes
  Compliance with Landscaping Requirements Verified.                                     n/a
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                      yes



                         ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
There are few to no issues or concerns with rezoning the property from a planning perspective.


                                      NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
The only response received from the neighborhood comes from the current tenant of the property, who is not in
favor of the proposal as it could have a future effect on the property they are currently renting from the
applicant/owner.



                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
The potential increase in residential density is limited to one single-family home. In the existing neighborhood
nearly, all homes are on 6,000 square foot lots and larger however, many are non-conforming as to the minimum
lot width of 60 feet. While the R-1 5 zone would allow for a smaller lot size and a minimum width as small as 25
feet, the smallest potential lot that could be created from the subject property would be 5,000 sq. ft. in size and
approximately 43.5 feet in width. This lot width would not be out of character for the neighborhood. Neighboring
lots on the North and the South of the subject property are each only 50 feet wide. One lot across the street to
the East is only about 40 feet wide. The most likely lot created from this property (with the existing house to
remain) would be approximately 49 feet in width and 5,600 square feet in size.

Most homes on the block are also non-complying with regards to front yard setbacks in the R-1-6 zone, including
the one on the subject property. A new home complying with the R-1-5 setbacks listed in ordinance would still
have front yard setback equal to or larger than 9 out of 10 existing homes on the same street face.



                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Metro Township Planning Commission forward a recommendation to
the Magna Metro Township Council for approval of the rezone.




Rezone                                                                                                   Page 3 of 3
File #31120
Zoning Map




                      R-1-6




                       R-1-6 to
              R-1-6    R-1-5
                                      R-1-6




                              R-1-6
File #31120
Aerial Map
                                              Planning and Development Services
                                              2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                              Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                              www.msd.utah.gov




                                                         File # 31085


                      Rezone Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: March 12, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-16-151-001-0000
Current Zone: M-2
Property Address: 1731 S. 8000 W.
Request: Conditional Use approval for a Liquid Gas Facility
Applicant Name: Dominion Energy

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval w/conditions




                                               PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is requesting approval of a Conditional Use to build a liquid gas facility at the property at 1731 S. 8000 W.

The subject property is 160 acres and currently vacant land. The applicant recently rezoned this property to M-2 for this
industrial use last month. The Township Council approved the rezone on February 4, 2020

The applicant would like to build a liquid gas facility on the property. This facility would freeze natural gas to a liquid state
in the summer months and store the gas until the winter months when needed. It would also serve as a backup system to
provide natural gas to the Salt Lake Valley in the event of a disaster.




                               SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located on the east side of 8000 West, just north of 2100 South. The land is vacant.

To the north of the subject property is the Waste Control Management for asbestos disposal. And to the west is the
Kennecott Tailings Pond property.
         Request: Conditional Use                                            File #: 31085



                                    GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The current General Plan for Magna Metro Township was adopted September 2012. The property is located on a mapped
General Plan corridor which is planned for an area of “moderate change” with an encouragement of compatible
development.



                                           ZONE CONSIDERATIONS
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                            Yes

Per Title Chapters 19.52 and 19.68
          Requirement                        Existing Zone (A-20)                         Proposed Zone (M-2)
                                Except as otherwise provided by the term of
                                 a conditional use permit, no structure in the
                                 A-20 zone shall exceed a height equal to the
  Height                                                                                             None
                                   distance between such structure and the
                                 nearest property line of the parcel on which
                                                 it is situated.
                                                                                 No commercial or industrial building or
  Front Yard Setback                                50 feet                      structure shall be located closer than 20
                                                                                             feet to any street.
  Side Yard Setback                                 20 feet                                         None
  Rear Yard Setback                                 50 feet                                         None
  Lot Width                                        200 feet                                         None
  Lot Area                                         20 Acres                                         None
                                                                                    No building, structure or group of
                                                                                 buildings, with their accessory buildings,
  Lot Coverage                                      None
                                                                                 shall cover more than 80 percent of the
                                                                                               area of the lot.



                           ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
There were no issues of concern for the conceptual review. A technical review will be performed if given preliminary
approval by the Planning Commission.



                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent to all property owners within 300’ of this project. No neighborhood response has been received as of
the writing of this report.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                          Page 2 of 3
         Request: Conditional Use                                           File #: 31085


                                        PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
The request is compatible with the General Plan Map and the goals of the Magna Community for this area’s growth to be
moderate in change and to create a diversity of uses along this corridor of 8000 West.




                                PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Magna Metro Township Planning Commission approve the Conditional Use for a liquid gas
facility with the following conditions:
     1. Applicant to comply with all requirements and recommendations from the Agency Reviewers.
     2. All bonds for improvements and final fees related to finalizing application be posted and/or paid prior to Final
          Approval being given.
     3. Applicant to provide a final landscaping plan, prior to Final Approval of the Land Use permit.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                        Page 3 of 3
N




            U201




    Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7200 W Corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U-201 HWY (UDOT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !   !       !             !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !   !   !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !    !   !   !   !   !   !     !   !   !   !   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Ut a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    h&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      t La




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ke                           on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C              si




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       al xten




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Riter Canal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Main St Corridor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !        !      !         !       !    !   !   !   !   !       !           !       !        !                !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            !       !       !       !   !   !   !       !   !    !          !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            !   !   !   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Co




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         rrid




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2820 S Corridor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ut




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ah




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          lt L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ak e C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  an




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    al




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8400 W Corridor (UDOT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                          NORTH TEMPLE ST
                                                                                                  80                                                                                 I-80W WB FWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !
                                                                                                                                     I-80W EB FWY
                                                                                                  §
                                                                                                  ¨
                                                                                                  ¦




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !
                                                                                 Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                               FW
                                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                          W
                                                                           0
                                                                        I-8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3500 S Corridor (SLCO)
                                                                                                                                                                                     7200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3500 S Corridor (UDOT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !   !   !       !   !       !       !         !       !       !       !       !    !   !   !   !       !       !       !       !          !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !                                                                                                                                                              !        !   !   !   !   !   !   !     !      !        !          !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !    !   !   !   !   !     !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !   !           !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                             Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                           FW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                           EB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                      DR

                                                        0
                                                     I-8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                         1300 S      CALIFORNIA AVE
                                                     AI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                   LT




                                                                 U-




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                 SA




                                                                 20




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                                    2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                  HW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                                    Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                            RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                        E
                                     AG
                                   NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                               O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                          FR                                             U-
                   I-80                                                       20                                                                                                  2100 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                 1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                     EB
                                                                                        H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                            WY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                8000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                 U-20
                                                                                                        1 WB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                               HWY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Legend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                            9180 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                          2700 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                                     PARKWAY BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Corridors - Adaptable - Flexible Changes




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                         3100 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                      !   !   !   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                               9200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Canals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                         3500 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       !


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Metro Township Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           !                            !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      !                     !   !   !
                                                                                                                                                    8400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        !   !


                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Parcels
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Areas of Focused Change




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                           4100 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7200 W Corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Areas of Moderate Change




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         !
                                                                                                                                                    U-111 HWY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 !




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     !
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Stable Areas
                                                                                                                                        Sources: Esri, USGS, NOAA, Sources: Esri, Garmin, USGS, NPS

Cartography by Tom C. Zumbado, MS, GISP


                                                                                                                                                                                               MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP FUTURE LAND USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0                           0.25                            0.5                                                                1 Mile
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
Salt Lake County Planning & Development Services
In conjunction with the offices of the
Salt Lake County Assessor, Auditor,
Information Services, Recorder and Surveyor.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7JAN19
                1                                         2                                      3                                                                                                                   4                             5                   6                                     7                            8                                      9                                                  10                                      11                                  12

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MATCH LINE CUP-02




                              S 8000W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LEGEND:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (FM) FIRE HYDRANT
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W/MONITOR NOZZLE

                                                     PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (FH) FIRE HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Conceptual Site Plan Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required                                                           PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Planning                  dimartinez: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/03/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Grading                  GBaptist: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/05/2020                                                      8' CHAIN LINK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SINGLE CONTAINMENT                                                                                                                      Geology       Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LNG TANK                                                                                                                                                Adahir: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/04/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ASPHALT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hydrology      Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required                                                                     PAVEMENT
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Adahir: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/02/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required                                                                        STONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Surveyor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GCates: 31085_Plans_Dominion 02/26/2020                                                            PAVEMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Traffic        Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Adahir: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/04/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UFA                  Degbert: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/03/2020

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                       925'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Health              ztorres-george: 31085_Plans_Dominion 02/21/2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Building       Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     tsorensen: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/03/2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Operations               ksmeltzer: 31085_Plans_Dominion 02/20/2020
C

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Revisions Required - See Comments Sheet
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Addressing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BLeCheminant: 31085_Plans_Dominion 03/03/2020
                                 S 8000W




                                                     STOP SIGN                                    MCC/ELECTRICAL
                                                                                                        BUILDING



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIMITS OF ASPHAULT


D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BOG AND BOOSTER
                                                                          557'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMPRESSOR BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1823 S 8000 W                                     105'x40'
                                                                                      MAINTENANCE
                                                                                          BUILDING
                                                                                             40'x40'                                                                                                                                                                       NITROGEN
                                                                                                                    FU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODEFU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COMPRESSOR BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           79'x59'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25'-0"
                                                                                          FIRE WATER
                                                                                         PUMP HOUSE
                                                                                                32'x40'

                                                                                         FIRE WATER
                                                                                      STORAGE TANK                                                                                                                  ADD ADDRESSES TO STRUCTURES
E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AIR FIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COOLERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                   1861 S 8000 W

                                                                          563.92 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                     DW




                                                     STOP SIGN                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         115'x35'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE

F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         343'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                          238'-0"




                                                                                          LIMITS OF ASPHAULT




G
                                                       PROPERTY LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100           0               100   200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE IN FEET                                    Callbefore you dig.
                                           REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                                                                                                             WORK ORDERS                                                            REVISIONS                                         ENGINEERING RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LINE NUMBER:
        DRAWING NUMBER                     REV                DRAWING DESCRIPTION                       WO NUMBER                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION                 NO                          DESCRIPTION                     DATE       BY    CHECK     DRAWN BY: L. TUTTLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FACILITY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A    ISSUED FOR REVIEW                                    01/31/2020   LJT   MAS       CHECKED BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DOMINION ENERGY_ANSI_D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT ENGINEER: P. SHANNON                                                                                                   LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SURVEYOR:                                                                                  DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ENGINEERING MNGR: A. SHEPPARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTR MNGR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOMINION ENERGY UTAH                                                    PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN - SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SECTION:                    T               R                           CITY                         COUNTY                      STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LAT:                        LONG:                                                    DRAWING NUMBER                             SHEET        REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SCALE:                                                                         10071268-CUP-01                                   1               A
                1                                         2                                      3                                                                                                                   4                             5                   6                                     7                            8                                      9                                                  10                                      11                                  12
                1                                    2                                 3               4                 5                   6                                     7                            8                                    9                                10                                11                             12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LEGEND:



A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY LINE




B




C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY LINE




D




E




                                                  PROPERTY LINE
F
                            S 8000W




                                                                                                                                                      MATCH LINE CUP-01

G



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                100           0            100   200                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE IN FEET                              Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Callbefore you dig.
                                      REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                   WORK ORDERS                                                 REVISIONS                                         ENGINEERING RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LINE NUMBER:
        DRAWING NUMBER                REV                DRAWING DESCRIPTION               WO NUMBER       DESCRIPTION       NO                          DESCRIPTION                     DATE       BY    CHECK     DRAWN BY: L. TUTTLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FACILITY:
                                                                                                                             A    ISSUED FOR REVIEW                                    01/31/2020   LJT   MAS       CHECKED BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DOMINION ENERGY_ANSI_D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT ENGINEER: P. SHANNON                                                                        LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SURVEYOR:                                                              DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ENGINEERING MNGR: A. SHEPPARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONSTR MNGR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOMINION ENERGY UTAH                             PRELIMINARY SITE PLAN - NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SECTION:            T         R                    CITY                       COUNTY                STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                   LAT:                LONG:                                    DRAWING NUMBER                        SHEET        REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCALE:                                                    10071268-CUP-02                           1               A
                1                                    2                                 3               4                 5                   6                                     7                            8                                    9                                10                                11                             12
                1                                                       2                                                                     3                                                                                                                                                   4                                                                5                                                        6                                    7                                     8                                            9                                   10                                      11                                         12

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MATCH LINE CUP-02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEGEND:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROPERTY LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING TOPOGRAPHIC                       4227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONTOUR
A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPOSED                         4227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TOPOGRAPHIC CONTOUR
                                                                   PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42
                                                                                                                422                                                                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                      6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FENCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NATURAL GAS LINES              G               G

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELECTRICAL LINES           E               E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FIREWATER LINES            FW              FW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING WATER LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SINGLE CONTAINMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (FM) FIRE HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                         WETLANDS                                                                                                                                                           LNG TANK
                               4226




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W/MONITOR NOZZLE

B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4224              4225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SF      4226     SF                             SF          SF            SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (FH) FIRE HYDRANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                42244225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4226




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4224




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            42264225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WETLANDS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SF
                                                                                                                                                        77'-1"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        27
                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                       422




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROPOSED SILT FENCE            SF          SF             SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SANITARY SEWER                    SS
                                                                                          EXISTING WATER LINE                                       26
                                                                                                                                               42
                                                   4226
                                                                                          (SEE NOTE 2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     POTABLE WATER                    W
                                                                                                                                         4
                                                                                                                                     422




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SF
C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4228




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42
                                                               4225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        26
                                                                                                                               MCC/ELECTRICAL
                                   S 8000W




                                                                                                                                     BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SF
                                                                                                                                                                          4225                                                                                                                                                              4229                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.    STORMWATER WILL BE ALLOWED TO SHEET FLOW OFF
                                                                                                                                                                         4226                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF IMPERMEABLE SURFACES AND PERCOLATE INTO
                                                                                                                                                                  42



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE GROUND AROUND THE PERIPHERY OF THE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26 5
                                                        SF             SF                 SF              SF                   SF                   SF                   SF                                                                                       SF
                                                                                                                                                                42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DEVELOPED SITE. PERCOLATION TESTING AT THE SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  42 422                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INDICATES A PERCOLATION RATE <1.0(MINUTES/INCH).
                                                                       42                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WETLANDS
                                                                            24
                                                                                           4224                                           4224                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.    THE EXISTING WATER LINE SHOWN IS LOCATED ON A
                                             SF




                                                                                                                                             4227




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30' WIDE EASEMENT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                     4225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   422

                                                                                   4225                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BOG AND BOOSTER
D                                                                                                      46'-5"                         4224                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMPRESSOR BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SF
                                             SF




                                                              4226
                            4226




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NITROGEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMPRESSOR BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                   FU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODEFU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODE




                                                                                                                                     MAINTENANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SF
                                                                                                                                         BUILDING
                                             SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       26
                                                                                                                                      FIRE WATER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42
                                                                                                                                     PUMP HOUSE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SF
                                                              FW              FW                   FW                     FW                        FW                       FW
                                             SF




                                                                                                                             FIRE WATER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SF
                                                                                                                          STORAGE TANK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                  FW




E
                                             SF




                                                                        E                      E                      E                      E                          E                                                                                          E                                                                                                                                                                 AIR FIN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4228




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COOLERS
                                                               PROPOSED
                                                               WATER METER
                                                  FW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       42
                                             SF




                                                                           4227




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SF
                                                                      SS                                  SS                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING WATER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4229




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4230
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4230




                                                                         422W
                                                                            8                                                                                                          4227                                                                                                                CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4229




                                                   W                                                              W                                          W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (SEE NOTE 2)
                                                                       4229                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDING
                                    FW
                                             SF




                                                                     42
                                                                       30




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          17'-9"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4228




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                  4227
                                                                                                                                                         4227




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4227
                                                                            4230




                                                                                                   4229
                                                       4231




                                                                                                                              4228




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9'-1"




F



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4229 4228 4227
                                                          G                  G                     G                      G                         G


                                                          SF            SF                 SF              SF                    SF                     SF                   SF                                                                                   SF                         SF               SF                SF             SF                  SF            SF          SF            SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4227


G
                                                               PROPERTY LINE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100               0           100           200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SCALE IN FEET                                            Callbefore you dig.
                                             REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WORK ORDERS                                                                                                                             REVISIONS                                                          ENGINEERING RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LINE NUMBER:
        DRAWING NUMBER                       REV                            DRAWING DESCRIPTION                                                         WO NUMBER                                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION                                                                    NO                                       DESCRIPTION                              DATE       BY    CHECK       DRAWN BY: L. TUTTLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FACILITY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A      ISSUED FOR REVIEW                                                       01/31/2020   LJT    MAS        CHECKED BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DOMINION ENERGY_ANSI_D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT ENGINEER: P. SHANNON                                                                             LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SURVEYOR:                                                                        DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING MNGR: A. SHEPPARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTR MNGR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOMINION ENERGY UTAH                   PRELIMINARY GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN - SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECTION:                 T       R                       CITY                            COUNTY                          STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAT:                     LONG:                                        DRAWING NUMBER                                    SHEET          REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCALE:                                                          10071268-CUP-03                                          1                 A
                1                                                       2                                                                     3                                                                                                                                                   4                                                                5                                                        6                                    7                                     8                                            9                                   10                                      11                                         12
                1                                       2                               3                    4                               5                    6                                        7                             8                                           9                                       10                                       11                             12


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LEGEND:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROPERTY LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING TOPOGRAPHIC           4227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTOUR
A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WETLANDS




B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4235
                                                                                                                                      4235                                                                                                                     4230
                                                                                                                               4230                                                                                                                  4225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4220
C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4220

                                                                                            42                                                                                                                                                                        4225
                                                                                              25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROPERTY LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4220
                             4225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4220
                                                                                   5
                                                                                  422




D
                         5
                       422




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      42
                                                                                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                                 42




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4215
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4220




                                                                                                                                                                                5
E




                                                                                                                                                                              422


                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                    422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4220




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4220
                                                     PROPERTY LINE
F
                               S 8000W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4220




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4215
                                                                                                                                                                           MATCH LINE CUP-03

G



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100          0            100    200                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE IN FEET                                Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Callbefore you dig.
                                         REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                      WORK ORDERS                                                                   REVISIONS                                             ENGINEERING RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LINE NUMBER:
        DRAWING NUMBER                   REV                DRAWING DESCRIPTION                  WO NUMBER       DESCRIPTION                     NO                            DESCRIPTION                       DATE        BY    CHECK     DRAWN BY: L. TUTTLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FACILITY:
                                                                                                                                                 A     ISSUED FOR REVIEW                                       01/31/2020    LJT   MAS       CHECKED BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOMINION ENERGY_ANSI_D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT ENGINEER: P. SHANNON                                                                                 LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SURVEYOR:                                                                            DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENGINEERING MNGR: A. SHEPPARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTR MNGR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOMINION ENERGY UTAH                        PRELIMINARY GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN - NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SECTION:              T              R                        CITY                         COUNTY                 STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAT:                  LONG:                                                DRAWING NUMBER                        SHEET          REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCALE:                                                                  10071268-CUP-04                           1                 A
                1                                       2                               3                    4                               5                    6                                        7                             8                                           9                                       10                                       11                             12
                1                                              2                                              3                                                                                                                    4                                           5                   6                                       7                                       8                                    9                                10                                      11                                   12

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MATCH LINE CUP-02




                              S 8000W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LEGEND:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (FM) FIRE HYDRANT
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     W/MONITOR NOZZLE

                                                         PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (FH) FIRE HYDRANT


                                                                                              Water Glycol Heater Building
                                                                                              Gross area: 3,230 sf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                              Building height / stories: 22 ft / 1
                                                                                              Construction: Type II-B
                                                                                              Occupancy: Group S-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8' CHAIN LINK
                                                                                              Sprinkler Required?: No (<12,000 sf, IBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FENCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SINGLE CONTAINMENT
                                                                                              §903.2.9)                                                                                                                                     LNG TANK
                                                                                              Fire Alarm Required?: No (IBC §907.2)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASPHALT

B
                                                                                              Fire Flow: 1,500 gpm (IFC T B105.1(2))
                                                                                              Calculated Occupant Load: 7




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DESIGN CODES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1. 2018 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (WITH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOG and Booster Compressors                                                                                                                                     STATEWIDE AND LOCAL AMENDMENTS)
                                                                                                                  925'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                         Gross area: 3,849 sf                                                                                                                                            2. 2018 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
      Maintenance Building                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Building height / stories: 17.5 ft / 1
      Gross area: 1,478 sf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Construction: Type II-B
      Building height / stories: 17.5 ft / 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Occupancy: Group F-1*
      Construction: Type II-B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sprinkler Required?: No (<12,000 sf, IBC
C
      Occupancy: Group F-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        §903.2.4)
      Sprinkler Required?: No (<12,000 sf, IBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Fire Alarm Required?: No (IBC §907.2.4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KEY NOTES
      §903.2.4)                                                                                                         Provide key box at                                                                                                                                                                                        Fire Flow: 1,500 gpm (IFC T B105.1(2))
      Fire Alarm Required?: No (IBC §907.2.4)                                                                           security gate (see                                                                                                                                                                                        Calculated Occupant Load: 7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. THE FIRE DEPARTMENT APPARATUS CAN
                                 S 8000W




      Fire Flow: 1,500 gpm (IFC T B105.1(2))                                                                            Note 3).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NAVIGATE THE SITE VIA THE ACCESS ROAD
      Calculated Occupant Load: 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                *MAQ Evaluation:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THAT LOOPS AROUND THE PROPERTY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Volume of LNG (see Note 6): 105 cf
                                                        STOP SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAQ flammable gas: 1,000 cf (IBC T
                                                                                                              MCC/ELECTRICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2. THE FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD
                                                                                                                    BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                      307.1(1))
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHALL HAVE AN OBSTRUCTED WIDHT OF AT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEAST 20 FEET (EXCLUDING THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHOULDERS) AND AN UNOBSTRUCTED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIMITS OF ASPHAULT                                                                                                                                                                             VERTICAL CLEARANCE OF AT LEAST 13 FEET
                                                                                            30 ft




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     40 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6 INCHES IN ACCORDANCE WITH IFC §503.2
D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BOG AND BOOSTER
                                                                                557'-0"
                                           Fire Protection Pump House                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMPRESSOR BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                            3. PROVIDE KEY BOX AT SECURITY GATE FOR
                                           Gross area: 1,157 sf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        105'x40'                                                                                                                                                                                       FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS IN ACCORDANCE
                                           Building height / stories: 22 ft / 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH IFC §506. GATE SHALL MEET IFC §503.6
                                           Construction: Type II-B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NITROGEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FOR PROVIDING ACCESS TO FIRE
                                                                                                                                   FU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODEFU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODE




                                                                                          MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                  COMPRESSOR BUILDING
                                           Occupancy: Group S-1                               BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                APPARATUS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       79'x59'
                                           Sprinkler Required?: No (<12,000 sf, IBC              40'x40'                                                                                                                          16 ft
                                           §903.2.9)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4. HYDRANT SPACING WILL NOT EXCEED 400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25'-0"
                                           Fire Alarm Required?: No (IBC §907.2)                FIRE WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FEET IN ACCORDANCE WITH IFC §507.
                                           Fire Flow: 1,500 gpm (IFC T B105.1(2))                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Nitrogen Compressor Building
                                                                                               PUMP HOUSE
                                           Calculated Occupant Load: 3                                32'x40'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gross area: 4,332 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5. SEE SITE PLAN AND BASIS OF DESIGN FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Building height / stories: 17.5 ft / 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ADDITIONAL DETAIL ON EQUIPMENT AND
                                                                                             FIRE WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Construction: Type II-B
                                                                                          STORAGE TANK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDINGS SITUATED AT THIS FACILITY.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Occupancy: Group F-1
                                            Utility Systems & Electrical Rooms                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sprinkler Required?: No (<12,000 sf, IBC
E
                                            Gross area: 5,053 sf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6. NONE OF THE PIPING IN THE BOG AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                §903.2.4)
                                            Building height / stories: 17.5 ft / 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BOOSTER COMPRESSOR ROOM HAS BEEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Fire Alarm Required?: No (IBC §907.2.4)
                                            Construction: Type II-B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AIR FIN                                                                                                                                                                                  DESIGNED YET. BEST ESTIMATE OF LNG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30 ft                                                                                 COOLERS            Fire Flow: 1,500 gpm (IFC T B105.1(2))
                                            Occupancy: Group F-1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PIPING IN THIS BUILDING IS 300 FEET OF 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Calculated Occupant Load: 9
                                            Sprinkler Required?: No (<12,000 sf, IBC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INCH LNG PIPING.
                                            §903.2.4)
                                            Fire Alarm Required?: No (IBC §907.2.4)
                                            Fire Flow: 1,500 gpm (IFC T B105.1(2))                                                                                                                                                        CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DW




                                            Calculated STOP   SIGNLoad: 11
                                                        Occupant                                                                                                                                                                          BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          115'x35'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                      30 ft




F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             343'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        238'-0"




                                                                                                    LIMITS OF ASPHAULT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAGNA Control Room
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gross area: 3,783 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Building height / stories: 17.5 ft / 1
G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Construction: Type II-B
                                                           PROPERTY LINE                                               Provide key box at
                                                                                                                       security gate (see                                                                                          Occupancy: Group B / S-1
                                                                                                                       Note 3).                                                                                                    Sprinkler Required?: No (<12,000 sf, IBC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   §903.2.9)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100             0              100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fire Alarm Required?: No (IBC §907.2.2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fire Flow: 1,500 gpm (IFC T B105.1(2))                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE IN FEET                                     Callbefore you dig.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Calculated Occupant Load: 37
                                           REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                                                                                                                              WORK ORDERS                                                                       REVISIONS                                                      ENGINEERING RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LINE NUMBER:
        DRAWING NUMBER                     REV                     DRAWING DESCRIPTION                             WO NUMBER                                                                                                               DESCRIPTION                             NO                          DESCRIPTION                              DATE       BY      CHECK       DRAWN BY: L. TUTTLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FACILITY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A    ISSUED FOR REVIEW                                             01/31/2020   TRF       MAS       CHECKED BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOMINION ENERGY_ANSI_D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT ENGINEER: P. SHANNON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SURVEYOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING MNGR: A. SHEPPARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONSTR MNGR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DOMINION ENERGY UTAH                                          FIRE PROTECTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECTION:            T         R                       CITY                          COUNTY                      STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAT:                LONG:                                          DRAWING NUMBER                              SHEET        REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE:                                                       10071268-CUP-05                                    1               A
                1                                              2                                              3                                                                                                                    4                                           5                   6                                       7                                       8                                    9                                10                                      11                                   12
                  1                                  2                                 3                            4                 5            6                                             7                            8                                          9                                           10                                       11                                12


                                                                                                       80'-0"
              N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     STANDING SEAM METAL                          INSULATED METAL
                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROOFING, TYP.                                SIDING, TYP.
                                                                                                         1                                                                                                                           COLOR: GRAY                                  COLOR: TAN
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      A



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             115.00            GENERAL NOTES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.     PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PERMIT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.     THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3.     BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FIRST FLOOR
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           100.00                                                                                     B



                                                                                                                                                       3             NORTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                           -         1/8" = 1'-0"
                          60'-0"




                                     4                                                              NITROGEN                                   2
                                     1                                                             COMPRESSOR                                  1
                                                                                                       100                                                                         1'-0"                                                         1'-0"
                                                                                                     4615 SF                                                          1"                                                                                     1"



C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C




                                                                                                                                                                                                     OVERHEAD DOOR                                         STANDARD HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DOOR, TYP.

                                                                                                                                                       2             EAST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                           -         1/8" = 1'-0"
D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D



                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                1


                                      FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROOF
                                      1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            115.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15'-0"
E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100.00



                                                                                                                                                       5             SOUTH ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                           -         1/8" = 1'-0"




F                                                                                                                                                                          1'-0"                                                                   1'-0"                                                                                                                                                               F
                                                                                                                                                               1"                                                                                                 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    115.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100.00

G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      G

                                                                                                                                                       4            WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                       -            1/8" = 1'-0"




                                    REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                  WORK ORDERS                                                  REVISIONS                                         ENGINEERING RECORD                                                                 LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER           REV                   DRAWING DESCRIPTION               WO NUMBER                    DESCRIPTION       NO                        DESCRIPTION                            DATE      BY   CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FACILITY:                            LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TITLE:                      NITROGEN COMPRESSOR BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURVEYOR:                                                                               DESCRIPTION:                    CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                                       ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CONSTR MNGR:                                             UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECTION:              T          R                               CITY                         COUNTY                       STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                      LAT:                  LONG:                                                    DRAWING NUMBER                            SHEET       REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: AS NOTED                                                              10105159-CUP-30                               1
                  1                                  2                                 3                            4                 5            6                                             7                            8                                          9                                           10                                       11                                12
                  1                                  2                                 3               4                            5                   6                                   7                                  8                                         9                                 10                                          11                                 12



       N
                                                                                                                                        107'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GENERAL NOTES:
A                                                                                                                                            3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.        PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE
                                                                                                                                             -                                                                                                                                                                                             PERMIT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.        THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.        BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.




B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B
                                                                                                                                     BOG &
                                                                                                                                   BOOSTER                                                                             2
                                                                      4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40'-0"
                                                                                                                                 COMPRESSOR                                                                            -
                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                      100
                                                                                                                                    4086 SF




C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                C




                                                                                                                                            5
                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                     FLOOR PLAN
                                                                     1/8" = 1'-0"



D                                                                                                                                                                                                    STANDING SEAM METAL                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                     ROOFING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLOR: GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1'-0"                                          1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1"                                                                   1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROOF                                                                                                                                ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   115.00                                                                                                                              115.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                     INSULATED METAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                     SIDING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     COLOR: TAN

E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                E
                                                                                                                                                                                                            FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                         FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   100.00                                                                                                                              100.00

                                                                                                           OVERHEAD DOOR, TYP.                         STANDARD HM DOOR, TYP.



                                                                3     NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                     2       EAST ELEVATION
                                                                -      1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                       -       1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1'-0"                                          1'-0"
F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1"                                                                         F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROOF                                                                                                                                ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   115.00                                                                                                                              115.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                 15' - 0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                            FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                         FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   100.00                                                                                                                              100.00


G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                G


                                                                5     SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                                                                                     4       WEST ELEVATION
                                                                -      1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                       -       1/8" = 1'-0"




                                    REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                     WORK ORDERS                                                          REVISIONS                                                   ENGINEERING RECORD                                                  LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER           REV                   DRAWING DESCRIPTION               WO NUMBER       DESCRIPTION                            NO              DESCRIPTION                   DATE              BY       CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FACILITY:                                LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TITLE:                           BOG & BOOSTER COMPRESSORS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SURVEYOR:                                                                  DESCRIPTION:                       CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                          ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONSTR MNGR:                                         UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SECTION:           T           R                         CITY                           COUNTY                        STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                    ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                       LAT:               LONG:                                               DRAWING NUMBER                             SHEET       REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SCALE: AS NOTED                                                     10105159-CUP-24                                   1
                  1                                  2                                 3               4                            5                   6                                   7                                  8                                         9                                 10                                          11                                 12
                  1                                     2                                  3                 4                              5                                   6                             7                                         8                                     9                                 10                                        11                                  12




                                              N
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GENERAL NOTES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.     PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PERMIT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.     THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.     BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.




B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   B




                                                                                                                                                                        1'-0"                                     1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                           1"                                                                     1"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROOF                                                                                                                                      ROOF
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             115.00                                                                                                                                    115.00                      C




                                                                                        40'-0"




                                                                                           3
D                                                                                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100.00                                                                                                                                     100.00




                                                                                                                                                2   NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                                             3     WEST ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                -   3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                               -     3/16" = 1'-0"




E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   E



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INSULATED METAL             STANIDING SEAM METAL
                                                                                        FIRE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SIDING, TYP.                ROOFING, TYP.
                                                                                       WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COLOR: TAN                  COLOR: GRAY
                                                                                                                                   33'-4"



                                                                                        PUMP
                         4                                                                                                     2
                                                                                         101                                                                    1'-0"                                                     1'-0"
                         -                                                                                                     -
                                                                                       1237 SF                                                        1"                                                                               1"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROOF                                                                                                                                      ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              115.00                                                                                                                                    115.00




F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100.00                                                                                                                                     100.00

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OVERHEAD DOOR                 STANDARD HM DOOR

G                                                                                          5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                           -


                             FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                         4   SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                             5     EAST ELEVATION
                             3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                      -   3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                               -     3/16" = 1'-0"


                                         REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                      WORK ORDERS                                                                      REVISIONS                                                      ENGINEERING RECORD                                                  LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER                REV                 DRAWING DESCRIPTION                  WO NUMBER       DESCRIPTION                         NO                             DESCRIPTION                           DATE          BY   CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FACILITY:                                 LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TITLE:                              FIRE WATER PUMP HOUSE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SURVEYOR:                                                                DESCRIPTION:                        CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                        ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTR MNGR:                                      UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SECTION:           T           R                          CITY                      COUNTY                           STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                        ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                           LAT:               LONG:                                              DRAWING NUMBER                            SHEET        REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SCALE: AS NOTED                                                   10105159-CUP-16                                    1
                  1                                     2                                  3                 4                              5                                   6                             7                                         8                                     9                                 10                                        11                                  12
                  1                                             2                          3                                      4                                         5                                 6                               7                          8                                 9                                        10                                   11                                  12




                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                140'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                 5
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                 -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GENERAL NOTES:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.    PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PERMIT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2.    THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3.    BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.




B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B
                                                            4                                                                UTILITY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40'-0"
                                                                                                                            SYSTEMS                                                                                                         ELECTRICAL                                                 2
                                                            -
                                                                                                                               101                                                                                                              100                                                    -
                                                                                                                             2890 SF                                                                                                          2452 SF




C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C




                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                      -


                                             FLOOR PLAN
                                             1/8" = 1'-0"




D                                                                    1'-0"                            1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                  1"                                                          1"
                                                                                                                                   ROOF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ROOF
                                                                                                                                   115.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    115.00




                                                                                                                            FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                   100.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100.00
                                                                                          OVERHEAD DOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STANDARD HM
E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DOOR, TYP.


                                                        2             NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                            3             EAST ELEVATION
                                                        -              1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                               -            1/8" = 1'-0"




                                                                     1'-0"                           1'-0"
                                                   1"                                                         1"
F                                                                                                                                  ROOF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ROOF                   F
                                                                                                                                   115.00                 STANDING SEAM METAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              115.00
                                                                                                                                                          ROOFING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                          COLOR: GRAY
                                                                                                                   15'-0"




                                                                                                                                                          INSULATED METAL
                                                                                                                                                          SIDING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                          COLOR: TAN



                                                                                                                            FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                   100.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100.00
                                                                                                 HM DOUBLE DOOR

G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G
                                                        4             SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                            5             WEST ELEVATION
                                                        -              1/8" = 1'-0"                                                                                               -            1/8" = 1'-0"




                                    REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                                  WORK ORDERS                                                                             REVISIONS                                         ENGINEERING RECORD                                                     LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER           REV                              DRAWING DESCRIPTION        WO NUMBER                                    DESCRIPTION                                   NO                      DESCRIPTION                            DATE   BY   CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FACILITY:                           LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TITLE:                     UTILITY SYSTEMS & ELECTRICAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SURVEYOR:                                                                   DESCRIPTION:                  CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                           ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTR MNGR:                                       UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SECTION:                  T            R                        CITY                      COUNTY                        STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LAT:                      LONG:                                            DRAWING NUMBER                             SHEET     REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE: AS NOTED                                                        10105159-CUP-15                                  1
                  1                                             2                          3                                      4                                         5                                 6                               7                          8                                 9                                        10                                   11                                  12
                    1                                  2                                    3                        4                     5                        6                              7                               8                                            9                                          10                                        11                             12


     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GENERAL NOTES:
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.     PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE                   A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PERMIT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2.     THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3.     BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.




B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B




                                                                                                                                                                                      INSULATED METAL SIDING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                      COLOR: TAN                                                                                                               1'-0"                                        1'-0"
                                                                            40'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1"                                                                  1"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF                                                                                                                                             ROOF
                                                                                 3                                                                                                                                                                     115.00                                                                                                                                           115.00
                                                                                 -

C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              STANDARD HM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DOOR, TYP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                    FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       100.00                                                                                                                                         100.00

D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OVERHEAD DOOR                                                   D

                                                                                                                                               2   NORTH ELEVATION                                                                                                         3        EAST ELEVATION
                                                                            MAINTENANCE                                                        -                                                                                                                           -          3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                   3/16" = 1'-0"
                                                                                 117
                                                                               1094 SF

                     2                                                                                                        40'-0"
                     -                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                         STANDING SEAM METAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ROOFING, TYP.
E                                                                                                                                                                                                        COLOR: GRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                        E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ROOF                                                                                                                                             ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       115.00                                                                                                                                           115.00




                                              OFFICE                             RESTROOM                   SPARE
                                               114                                  115                     PARTS
                                                                                                             116
                                              147 SF                               118 SF
                                                                                                            112 SF


F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                    FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                 5                                                                                                                                                                     100.00                                                                                                                                         100.00
                                                                                 -


          FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                           4   SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                     5            WEST ELEVATION
          3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                                        -   3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                       -            3/16" = 1'-0"




G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G




                                    REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                   WORK ORDERS                                                  REVISIONS                                                   ENGINEERING RECORD                                                            LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER           REV                     DRAWING DESCRIPTION                  WO NUMBER                DESCRIPTION                           NO       DESCRIPTION                             DATE    BY     CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                FACILITY:                                LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TITLE:                               MAINTENANCE BUILDING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SURVEYOR:                                                                                DESCRIPTION:                        CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                                        ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONSTR MNGR:                                                 UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SECTION:                T               R                      CITY                             COUNTY                   STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                           ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                              LAT:                    LONG:                                             DRAWING NUMBER                             SHEET        REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE: AS NOTED                                                        10105159-CUP-14                                   1
                    1                                  2                                    3                        4                     5                        6                              7                               8                                            9                                          10                                        11                             12
                  1                                     2                              3                4                                  5                        6                                      7                         8                              9                                 10                                           11                          12




       N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GENERAL NOTES:
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1.     PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PERMIT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2.     THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3.     BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.




B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B




                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2



                                                                                                                                                                                 115'-2"




C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C




                                                                                                        LIBRARY                        KITCHEN                               MENS                                 WOMENS                  SERVER
                                                                                                           107                            108                                 109                                   110                     111
                                                                                                         105 SF                         250 SF                               323 SF                                178 SF                  102 SF

D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                           CONTROL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                35'-0"
                                                    3                                        106
                                                    2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                                                                                            652 SF                                                                                                                                                                              STORAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 888 SF




E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     E


                                                                                                             PPE              OFFICE             OFFICE    OFFICE       LOBBY                                  CONFERENCE
                                                                                                             105                104                103       102          101                                      113
                                                                                                            95 SF              97 SF              97 SF     97 SF        92 SF                                    385 SF




F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     F

                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2



                                                     FLOOR PLAN
                                                        3/16" = 1'-0"




G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     G




                                    REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                         WORK ORDERS                                                                     REVISIONS                                      ENGINEERING RECORD                                           LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER           REV                      DRAWING DESCRIPTION             WO NUMBER           DESCRIPTION                               NO                     DESCRIPTION                      DATE      BY   CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FACILITY:                               LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TITLE:                              MAGNA CONTROL ROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SURVEYOR:                                                         DESCRIPTION:                       CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                 ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CONSTR MNGR:                                UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SECTION:           T           R                      CITY                           COUNTY                     STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                               ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                  LAT:               LONG:                                              DRAWING NUMBER                        SHEET       REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SCALE: AS NOTED                                               10105159-CUP-12                                   1
                  1                                     2                              3                4                                  5                        6                                      7                         8                              9                                 10                                           11                          12
                  1                                  2                                 3               4                             5        6                             7                                   8                                     9                                  10                                          11                                 12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GENERAL NOTES:
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.     PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE                  A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PERMIT.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2.     THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3.     BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.


                                                                                                                                                                                            STANDING SEAM METAL                                               INSULATED METAL
                                                                                                                                                                                            ROOFING, TYP.                                                     SIDING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                            COLOR: GRAY                                                       COLOR: TAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               115.00
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15'-0"
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FIRST FLOOR                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              100.00



                                                 1       EAST ELEVATION
                                                 -       3/16" = 1'-0"




                                                                         1'-0"                             1'-0"                                                                                              1'-0"                                                         1'-0"
                                                                   1"                                              1"                                                                                 1"                                                                            1"
                                                                                                                                ROOF                                                                                                                                                                           ROOF
D                                                                                                                               115.00                                                                                                                                                                         115.00                                                                          D




E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                                                         FIRST FLOOR                                                                                                                                                                   FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                100.00                                                                                                                                                                        100.00



                                                 2       SOUTH ELEVATION                                                                                                        3          NORTH ELEVATION
                                                 -       3/16" = 1'-0"                                                                                                          -          3/16" = 1'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               115.00
F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FIRST FLOOR
G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100.00                                                                           G

                                                                                                                                                                                                            OVERHEAD DOOR, TYP.                 STANDARD HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DOOR, TYP.
                                                 4       WEST ELEVATION
                                                 -       3/16" = 1'-0"



                                    REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                     WORK ORDERS                                          REVISIONS                                                  ENGINEERING RECORD                                                      LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER           REV                   DRAWING DESCRIPTION               WO NUMBER       DESCRIPTION                   NO       DESCRIPTION                       DATE         BY        CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FACILITY:                             LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TITLE:                            MAGNA CONTROL ROOM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SURVEYOR:                                                                    DESCRIPTION:                     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                            ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CONSTR MNGR:                                     UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SECTION:           T           R                             CITY                       COUNTY                         STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                 ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                    LAT:               LONG:                                                DRAWING NUMBER                             SHEET       REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SCALE: AS NOTED                                                      10105159-CUP-05                                   2
                  1                                  2                                 3               4                             5        6                             7                                   8                                     9                                  10                                          11                                 12
                  1                                  2                                     3                          4                                       5                                    6                                       7                                 8                                  9                                        10                                         11                                   12




                                 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GENERAL NOTES:
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                              1'-0"                     1'-0"                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.          PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING LAYOUT FOR SPECIAL USE
                                                                                                    1"                                          1"                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PERMIT.
                                                                                                                                                                     ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                     115.00                                                                                                                                                                                               2.          THIS DRAWING IS NOT TO BE USED FOR CONSTRUCTION.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3.          BUILDING ASSEMBLY IS PRE ENGINEERED METAL BUILDING.




                                                                                                                                                     15'-0"
                                                                                                                                                              FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                     100.00
B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B

                                                                                       2       NORTH ELEVATON
                                                                                       1       1/8" = 1'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                            STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                            COLOR: GRAY



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           115.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    76'-0"


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -                                                                                            C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           100.00
                                                                                                                                           OVERHEAD DOOR, TYP.                STANDARD HM DOOR                       WINDOW
                                                                                       3       EAST ELEVATON
                                                                                       1       1/8" = 1'-0"



D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WATER GLYCOL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 35'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4                                                                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HEATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                   ROOF                                                                                                                                                                                100
                                                                                                                                                                   115.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2514 SF




                                                                                                                                                         FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                100.00
E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              E
                                                                                       4       SOUTH ELEVATON
                                                                                       1       1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FLOOR PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROOF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          115.00


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INSULATED METAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SIDING, TYP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    COLOR: TAN
F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FIRST FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100.00
                                                                                                                                                                                    WINDOW             STANDARD HM DOOR
                                                                                       5       WEST ELEVATON
                                                                                       1       1/8" = 1'-0"




G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G




                                    REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                    WORK ORDERS                                                                                         REVISIONS                                                   ENGINEERING RECORD                                                  LINE NUMBER
          DRAWING NUMBER           REV                   DRAWING DESCRIPTION                   WO NUMBER                  DESCRIPTION                                               NO                          DESCRIPTION                           DATE   BY     CHECK DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DRAWN BY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FACILITY:                                 LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT ENGINEER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TITLE:                                WATER GLYCOL HEATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SURVEYOR:                                                                  DESCRIPTION:                         CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ENGINEERING MNGR:                                                          ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DOMINION ENERGY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CONSTR MNGR:                                  UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SECTION:           T           R                                CITY                         COUNTY                          STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LAT:               LONG:                                                      DRAWING NUMBER                              SHEET      REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SCALE: AS NOTED                                                           10105159-CUP-11                                    1
                  1                                  2                                     3                          4                                       5                                    6                                       7                                 8                                  9                                        10                                         11                                   12
                 1                                                       2                                                        3                                                                                                                                          4                                    5                             6                                     7                                     8                                        9                                           10                                       11                                 12




                              S 8000W
                                                                                                             FROM EDGE OF VIEW TO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEGEND:
                                                                                                             NORTH PROPERTY LINE AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PLANT LIST
                                                                                                             BEYOND IS VACANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROPERTY LINE
A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MATURE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SYMBOL              BOTANICAL NAME                     COMMON NAME                HYDROZONE         MIN SIZE         QTY*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HEIGHT (FT)
                                                                 PROPERTY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8' CHAIN LINK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TREES                                                                                                                                                                        FENCE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMELANCHIER UTAHENSIS               UTAH SERVICEBERRY                    1           2" CALIPER         10             8                                     ASPHALT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CELTIS RETICULATA                   NETLEAF HACKBERRY                    1           2" CALIPER         11             25

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHILOPSIS LINEARIS                  DESERT WILLOW                        1           2" CALIPER         11             20                              GRAVEL BASE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         QUERCUS GAMBELII                    GAMBEL'S OAK                         1           2" CALIPER         11             20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SINGLE CONTAINMENT                                                                                                HYDROMULCH SEED MIX (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO)                                                                                                                        WETLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LNG TANK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ACHILLEA MILLEFOLIUM                YARROW                               1

B                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ACHNATHERUM HYMENOIDES              INDIAN RICE GRASS                    1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ARTEMESIA TRIDENTATA                MOUNTAIN BIG SAGEBRUSH               1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ASCLEPIAS SPECIOSA                  SHOWY MILKWEED                       1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CERATOIDES LANATA                   WINTERFAT                            1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COTONEASTER DIVARICATA              SPREADING COTONEASTER                1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 42
               VACANT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ELYMUS CINEREUS                     GREAT BASIN RYE                      1
                                                                                                                                        925'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EPHEDTRA VIRIDIS                    MORMAN TEA                           1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ERICAMERIA NAUSEOSA                 RUBBER RABBIT BRUSH                  1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GAILLARDIA ARISTATA                 BLANKET FLOWER                       1
C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PENSTEMON CYANANTHUS                WASATCH BEARDTONGUE                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4228
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PURSIA TRIDENTATA                   ANTELOPE BITTERBRUSH                 1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SPOROBOLUS CONTRACTUS               SPIKE DROPSEED                       1
                                 S 8000W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          * TOTAL OF BUILDING SQUARE FOOTAGES IS 21,366. STREET FRONTAGE TREES REQUIRED ARE 43, OR
                                                                                                                                   MCC/ELECTRICAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TWO PER 1,000 SF OF BUILDING AREA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4229
                                                                 STOP SIGN                                                               BUILDING
                                                                                                                                          5,600 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LANDSCAPE WATER ALLOWANCE CALCUATIONS                                                           SITE AREA CALCULATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ET0            CONVERSION         AREA          TOTAL         GALLONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ET0                                                                                                                                      PERCENT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LIMITS OF ASPHALT                                    ADJUSTMENT           FACTOR           (SF)       ALLOWANCE        PER SQ FT                      USE            SQ FT
                                                                                                                                 4227




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TOTAL SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAXIMUM WATER USE ALLOWED
D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BOG AND BOOSTER                                                                                                                               IMPERVIOUS
     20' landscaping strip                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          COMPRESSOR BUILDING                      31.18                 1.00               0.62     188,555         3,645,070          19.33
     on the frontage                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4,200 SF                                                                                                                                      PAVED                   109,256             13
                                                                                                              MAINTENANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PERMANENT LANDSCAPE DESIGN WATER USE**
     required by Dev.                                                                                             BUILDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUILDING                 21,366              3
     standards for new                                           CLEAR VIEW                                        1,600 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NITROGEN                                 31.18                  0.61              0.62      71,549           843,726          11.79
                                                                                                                                                            FU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODEFU_COLDFU_HOTFU_WASTEFU_TOTALFIXT_CODE




                                                                                                557'-0"
     industrial                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COMPRESSOR BUILDING                                                                                                                           TANKS                    46,879              6
     development.                                                                                                    PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4,661 SF                              ** BASED ON PERMANENT DRIP TO TREES ONLY. SEED WILL BE ESTABLISHED AND THEN
                                                                                                           (UNDER 20 SPACES)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROVIDED NO ADDITIONAL WATER.                                                                                   SUBTOTAL        177,501

                                                                                                                        FIRE WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PERVIOUS
                                                                                                                       PUMP HOUSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOTES
                                                      FW         FW      FW          FW   FW          FW     FW         FW     FW    FW             FW   FW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LANDSCAPE               188,555             23
                                                                                                                            1,280 SF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1. THE LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR IS NOT KNOWN AT THIS TIME.
                                                 FW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. THERE ARE NO EXISTING TREES ON SITE WITH A CALIPER GREATER THAN                                      GRAVEL/MULCH            450,985             55
                                                                                                                 FIRE WATER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4 INCHES OR OTHER FEATURES TO PRESERVE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                                                                                              STORAGE TANK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SUBTOTAL        639,540
                                                 FW




E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL      817,041             100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E




                                  20,890.22 sf                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DESIGN INTENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE LANDSCAPE DESIGN INTENT IS TO MINIMIZE WATER USE AND CREATE A
                                                 FW




                                                                  E          E       E    E           E       E              E     E           E    E     E                                                                                E        E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AIR FIN                        MOSTLY SELF-SUSTAINING LANDSCAPE. A MIX OF TREES WILL ACCENT THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COOLERS                        ENTRANCES TO THE SITE. THEY WILL BE SUPPLEMENTED WITH A HYDROMULCH
                                                 FW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEED MIX THAT INCLUDES SHRUBS, GRASSES, AND PERENNIALS. THE LANDSCAPE
                                                                                                                     PARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IS CONCENTRATED AT THE ENTRY DRIVES AND THE MAIN OCCUPIED BUILDINGS.
                                                                                                           (UNDER 20 SPACES)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THE REMAINDER OF THE SITE WILL BE MULCHED WITH GRAVEL TO CREATE A
                                                 FW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WORKING ENVIRONMENT FOR THE SITE ACTIVITIES.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTROL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DW




                                                                 STOP SIGN                                                                                                                                                                                                       BUILDING
                                                 FW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,025 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REFER TO CIVIL PLANS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOR GROUND SURFACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4229




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4230
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4230




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4229




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TREATMENT
                                                                                                                                                          4227




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4228




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4228
                                                      4226




                                                                             4227




                                                                                               4228




                                                                                                                      4228




                                                                                                                                            4227




F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        343'-0"




                                                             G                   G            G                   G                     G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               238'-0"




                                                                 CLEAR VIEW                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROPERTY LINE
                                                                                                                                               LIMITS OF ASPHALT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VACANT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VACANT
G
                                                                      PROPERTY LINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   100           0               100   200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Know what's below.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SCALE IN FEET                                   Callbefore you dig.
                                           REFERENCE DRAWINGS                                                                                                                                                                                                                     WORK ORDERS                                                                             REVISIONS                                                  ENGINEERING RECORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LINE NUMBER:
        DRAWING NUMBER                     REV                               DRAWING DESCRIPTION                                            WO NUMBER                                                                                                                             DESCRIPTION                                   NO                          DESCRIPTION                           DATE        BY    CHECK       DRAWN BY: L. PATY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FACILITY:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A    ISSUED FOR REVIEW                                        02/12/2020     LEP      MAS       CHECKED BY:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DOMINION ENERGY_ANSI_D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT ENGINEER: P. SHANNON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DESCRIPTION:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LNG FACILITY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SURVEYOR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ADDRESS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING MNGR: A. SHEPPARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CONSTR MNGR:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               DOMINION ENERGY UTAH                                                CONCEPTUAL LANDSCAPE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SECTION:              T               R                           CITY                        COUNTY                      STATE
     THE INFORMATION AND CONCEPTS CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT ARE CONFIDENTIAL AND
    THE PROPERTY OF DOMINION ENERGY AND/OR THE CLIENT IDENTIFIED. DUPLICATION OR USE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ELEVATION:
    OF THIS INFORMATION AND/OR CONSTRUCTION OF SYSTEMS BASED ON THIS DOCUMENT ARE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LAT:                  LONG:                                                    DRAWING NUMBER                            SHEET        REVISION
             STRICTLY PROHIBITED WITHOUT WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION FROM QUESTAR.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SCALE:                                                               10071268-CUP-LP01                                    1               A
                 1                                                       2                                                        3                                                                                                                                          4                                    5                             6                                     7                                     8                                        9                                           10                                       11                                 12
