                                              Planning and Development Services
                                              2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                              Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




               Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
                                             Public Meeting Agenda

                           Thursday, July 9, 2020 6:30 P.M.
                                              **AMENDED**
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
Join by phone
Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
If you are the host, you can also enter your host PIN in your video conferencing system or
application to start the meeting.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                            BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the June 11, and June 29, 2020 meeting minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                       LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
31183- Cris Kohles is requesting Conditional Use approval to Manufacture Landscaping
Materials. Acreage: Approximately 4.85 acres. Location: 2360 South 7200 West. Zone: M-2
(Manufacturing). Planner: Diana Martinez. (Motion/Voting)


July 9, 2020                                           Page 1 of 2         AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
31211- Cris Kohles is requesting a roadway improvements waiver (curb, gutter, and sidewalk).
Acreage: 4.85 acres. Location: 2360 South 7200 West. Zone: M-2/zc. Planner: Diana Martinez.
(Motion/Voting)

31196- Rob Reynolds is requesting Conditional Use approval to Expand an Existing Landfill.
Acreage: 40 acres. Location: 7501 West California Avenue. Zone: A-20 (Agricultural). Planner:
Diana Martinez. (Motion/Voting)

31181- Michael Margetts is requesting a Plat Amendment to Lot 55 of the Colony Farms
Subdivision. This request would divide 4 existing townhomes on the lot into individual lots.
Acreage: 0.06 acres. Location: 2612-2618 South Fernhill Lane. Zone: R-M/zc. Planner: Travis
Hair (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior
to acting on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three
minutes per person.

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)
Amendment to Overpressure Ordinance for recommendation to the Metro Council regarding: (1)
updating Title 18 of the Metro Code to allow for subdivision of parcels in the certain areas of the
overpressure zone while (2) preserving all other restrictions on development within those same
areas. Presenter: Jay L. Springer (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed ordinance amendment after taking comments
from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the
planning commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public
comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

                                           ADJOURN




July 9, 2020                                Page 2 of 2         AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
               Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



July 9, 2020                                          Page 2 of 2              AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                        MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                  Thursday, June 11, 2020 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 45 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 5                                    found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                     Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Cripps

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent
                                Mtg         Mtg
                                                                                                          Public      Business
         Clare Collard           x           x                            Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                           Mtg          Mtg
          Dan Cripps             x           x
       Ammon Lockwood            x           x                               Wendy Gurr                      x            x
         Aaron Weight            x           x                              Diana Martinez                   x            x
        Mickey Sudbury                                 x                     Jim McNulty                     x            x
         Mark Elieson            x           x                               Jay Springer                    X            x
        Todd Richards            x           x




                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:31 p.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the May 14, 2020 meeting.
       Motion: To approve minutes from the May 14, 2020 meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Richards
             2nd by: Commissioner Elieson
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

Commissioner Collard motioned to close the business portion of the meeting, Commissioner Elieson
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Weight motioned to open the public portion of the meeting, Commissioner Lockwood
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                         Page 1 of 6
                                       LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                       Hearings began at – 6:37 p.m.

31169- Dinah & Jack Nielsen are requesting Conditional Use approval for an Oversized Accessory Building
(3,000 sq. ft. Garage) and approval to exceed the 25% rear yard coverage maximum. Acreage:
approximately 0.71 acres. Location: 3330 South 8000 West. Zone: R-2-6.5. Planner: Diana Martinez

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Collard said something about 240 sf and is that something to do with the awning. Ms.
Martinez said correct, he will remove the awning and meet the 25%.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Jack and Dinah Nielsen
Address: 3330 South 8000 West
Comments: Mr. Nielsen said will be a metal building, insulated, no heat, no facilities, just storage. Second
garage is filled with pool equipment and cars. Sold business and has excess equipment. Eating dead space
and a farm with goat heads, sun inlets at the top, 30 more solar panels, total 50, mainly storage building.
Still a lot of grass and open area to the north. Moving building closer to the garage for more of a buffer to
the fence. Bigger setback than required. Wants stuff under storage, eventually getting rid of equipment and
will be destroyed if left out. Been here 40 plus years.

Commissioner Richards asked if taking down some awning. Mr. Nielsen said no issues at all. Whatever it
takes to hit the magic number. Backyard faces to the west, if he takes it all down, the house becomes a
furnace. Measured the short section and may not have to remove the large section. Commissioner Richards
asked if that is a requirement. Ms. Martinez said you do, basing 25 percent off her number, if he measures,
shell take them, if he exceeds will have to go to land use hearing officer for approval. Mr. Nielsen said he
measured from the corner of the house to the back fence. Gave three feet to their neighbor, willing to do
the awning and measurement. Ms. Martinez said can modify the condition or remove part of the awning.
Craft a motion to include the items.

Commissioner Lockwood motioned to open the public portion of the meeting, Commissioner Elieson
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public portion of the meeting, Commissioner Elieson
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners had a brief discussion regarding the awning.

Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                       Page 2 of 6
Motion: To approve application #31169 with staff recommendations and meet approvals and ensure the
25% is accounted for, buy measurements or removal of a portion of the awning.
       Motion by: Commissioner Lockwood
       2nd by: Commissioner Elieson
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)



31146- Shaun Johnson is requesting Conditional Use approval for an Office/Warehouse use. Acreage:
approximately 32.76 acres. Location: 7930 West 4100 South. Zone: M-1. Planner: Diana Martinez

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Cripps said originally were putting a fuel station and now down by the freeway.
Commissioner Richards said application talks about a warehouse, but Ms. Martinez spoke about an office
building. Ms. Martinez said both, will have full time employees and storage warehouse in the rear.
Commissioner Cripps said Northrup Grumman building and the structure will be similar requirements with
minimal glass, substantial structure. Commissioner Richards asked for height of the building. Ms. Martinez
provided the drawing showing 38 feet to the top, up to 40. Building official will look at before it comes back
for final approval. Commissioner Cripps asked with the store front on the north side. Ms. Martinez said
bottom is west elevation and top to the north. Commissioner Cripps said requirement on the window square
footage. Commissioner Elieson said will have to be built to the overpressure zone building standards.
Commissioner Weight said he works at the business to the west and his employment does not affect his
judgement.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Shaun Johnson
Address: 522 South 850 East, Suite 1-A, Lehi
Comments: Mr. Johnson said thank you with Ginger leaving and stepping in. Flex space, predominantly
warehouse. Worked it out with ATK, doing land swapping on the east side, bound to certain covenants,
with only so much office space, abiding by those. Estimating 1,400 per units, maximum to get to under
agreement. Small office space, large warehouse. 70,000 square feet but think found 47,040 square feet.
Height is 28-foot clear height inside, highest is 140 feet, maximum 37 and half feet. Understand building
in pressure zone, prepared falls in parameters. Glass look is ideal, moving forward must manage can do the
glass. Façade with concrete behind glass, understand where building working with ATK and they will view
final drawings. Unique area, possible big tenants taking up half the building, but attract small tenants.
Concrete tilt up building

Commissioner Richards asked if three parcels will be separate or joined. Mr. Johnson said break up into
seven different parcels. May remain three parcels, ATK is working with Attorney Craig Smith with
amendment to the pressure zone. Looking into seven and maybe breaking those in half too. Commissioner
Richards asked will be sold off to individual or owned by your group. Mr. Johnson said vertical on three
buildings, the one looking at tonight to the east and behind, conceptual is to go vertical and subject to

Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                        Page 3 of 6
change. One point a developer was going to take a building for a client out of China, balance between their
timing and buyers coming in.

Commissioner Weight motioned to open the public portion of the meeting, Commissioner Elieson seconded
that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Elieson motioned to close the public portion of the meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded
that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners had a brief discussion regarding the use of space.

Motion: To approve application #31146 as presented with staff recommendations.
      Motion by: Commissioner Elieson
      2nd by: Commissioner Weight
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)
31170- Spencer Pack is requesting a Rezone from the R-1-6 (Residential Zone) to the R-1-3 (Residential
Zone). Acreage: 0.12 acres. Location: 3027 South 9150 West. Planner: Diana Martinez

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed rezone after taking comments from the public during
the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of
conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Richards asked the width of the lot. Ms. Martinez said 30 feet. Commissioner Richards asked
of height. Ms. Martinez said would have to meet zoning, 35 feet, two story. Mr. McNulty said five foot
minimum, when you think of PUD’s with those setbacks, in the area there are lots non-conforming to R-1-
6, this is deep and narrow, and applicant will work with to meet R-1-3. Plans to accommodate or site a
home. Ms. Martinez confirmed will have to go through the subdivision process and come back.
Commissioner Lockwood asked where the subdivision will go. Ms. Martinez said no rezoning and does not
meet requirements of the zone. Mr. McNulty said correct, must occur to legally subdivide because it was
created illegally. Ms. Martinez said must go to R-1-3 to make it work. Commissioner Lockwood asked how
he could purchase an illegal property. Ms. Martinez said it happens all the time. Mr. McNulty said
recorders are elected officials and come in and record and can do for ownership, but no development right.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Spencer Pack
Address: 2017 East Lexington Hills Drive, Sandy

Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                      Page 4 of 6
Comments: Mr. Pack said his vision is, toured a home builder in Payson, Iron Town Custom Homes. Make
modular products, and build in a warehouse in controlled, general contractor places the home on foundation,
do a lot of custom, narrow beach lots, that do not have a lot of width, but length. Two story plans and can
accommodate the lot, sounds like the lot does not permit and he is recognizing and jump through hoops to
make legal. Lots south of him. 11 lots, kiddie corner northeast. 08 acres, if they can do it, he believes can
do it with the modular builder. New for resale or rent out.

Commissioner Elieson motioned to open the public portion of the hearing, Commissioner Richards
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Weight motioned to close the public portion of the hearing, Commissioner Lockwood
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding setting a precedent of the smaller lots, character
of the neighborhood, flag lots, and configuration of the lot.

Motion: To recommend application #31170 to the Magna Metro Township Council for approval with staff
recommendations and one additional condition that only single-family residence, all other uses prohibited.
      Motion by: Commissioner Weight
      2nd by: Commissioner Lockwood
      Vote: Commissioner Richards noted nay, all other Commissioners voted in favor (of commissioners
      present). Motions passed.




31173- Scott Braithwaite is requesting a street improvements waiver (curb, gutter, and sidewalk). Acreage:
approximately 3.85 acres. Location: 2330 South 7200 West. Zone: M-2. Planner: Diana Martinez

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed waiver after taking comments from the public during
the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of
conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioners, staff, and counsel had a brief discussion on the length of a delay agreement, terms, legal
review, bonding, safer and excess drainage, improvements not in place, public works plan and input.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED


Speaker # 1: Applicant, Jacobson Construction
Name: Scott Braithwaite
Address: 3131 West 2210 South

Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                       Page 5 of 6
Comments: Mr. Braithwaite said would like to request the exception as part of Jacobson warehouse project.
No storm drain and private development requirement retain storm drain and percolate. If required, collect
in the gutter, and directed to the north end of the property and point discharge to the adjacent property.
Collect on private property from public roadway. Mr. Braithwaite read his comments. Does not work from
an engineering perspective to put curb, gutter, and sidewalk on a flat road. Trying to be great neighbors,
current facility for 38 years and want to do it right, does not make sense currently. Challenge is would like
a five-year, engineering is not clear when it will be done and prefer the exception and does not feel fair to
build bigger retention ponds to hold public water runoff.

Commissioner Weight motioned to open the public portion of the hearing, Commissioner Elieson seconded
that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Elieson motioned to close the public portion of the hearing, Commissioner Collard seconded
that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding continuation and public works input,

Motion: To continue application #31173 to a special meeting of June 29th at 6:30pm and invite engineering
to provide input and feedback on installation of curb, gutter, and sidewalk or delay agreement.
        Motion by: Commissioner Cripps
        2nd by: Commissioner Elieson
        Vote: Commissioner Richards and Commissioner Weight voted nay, all other commissioners voted
        in favor (of commissioners present). Motion passed.

Commissioner Lockwood motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Weight seconded that motion.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 8:16 p.m.




Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 11, 2020 – Meeting Summary                       Page 6 of 6
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                        MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                  Monday, June 29, 2020 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 37 minutes                               *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                    found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                     Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Cripps

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                               Public     Business                                                        Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent               Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                            Mtg          Mtg
         Clare Collard           x           x
          Dan Cripps             x           x                                Wendy Gurr                     x            x
       Ammon Lockwood            x           x                              Diana Martinez                   x            x
         Aaron Weight            x           x                                Jim McNulty                    x            x
        Mickey Sudbury                                 x                    Crystal Hulbert                  x            x
         Mark Elieson            x           x                            Jefferson Thomson                  x            x
        Todd Richards            x           x                                Jay Springer                   x            x




                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:32 p.m.
    1) Other Business Items (as needed)
        No other business items to discuss.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the business portion of the meeting, Commissioner Elieson
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                            PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                         Hearings began at – 6:36 p.m.

31173- (Continued from 06/11/2020) - Scott Braithwaite is requesting a roadway improvements waiver
(curb, gutter, and sidewalk). Acreage: approximately 3.85 acres. Location: 2330 South 7200 West. Zone:
M-2. Planner: Diana Martinez. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed waiver after taking comments from the public during

Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 29, 2020 – Meeting Summary                                         Page 1 of 3
the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of
conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Crystal Hulbert with Salt Lake County Engineering advised they have a draft storm drain master plan south
of U-201 and finalizing and master transportation plan. She provided a map of Magna and advised there
are storm drains in the area and advised of public and private storm drains. Development south of U-201
is requiring curb and gutter and not encouraging delay agreements. North of U-201 is special with high
ground water and water tables and no storm drain owned by Magna. Issues they find a lot when curb,
gutter, and sidewalk, is being very expensive, land acquisition, grading, right of way, and potential
damages. If they deny the delay agreement, her 100% second recommendation would be to not have a delay
agreement, but not require curb and gutter at this time. If they require storm drain to be installed, it is
millions of dollars to get it that far. Commissioner Cripps said idea of grading and prepping. Commissioner
Elieson said he knows the inland port has discussed running 7200 west to I-80, if in fact what they decide,
what happens when they come in and UDOT needs to take 7200 west and turn into a major arterial, with
all the work they’re during. Commissioner Elieson said they have had a lot of deals not enforced with a
small property and isolated. Ms. Hulbert said people try to get out of it everywhere. She recommends below
they install curb, gutter, and sidewalk, here is less sidewalk to nowhere, at some point a development comes
in and needs to be installed. That is not why she is recommending no curb, gutter, and sidewalk. If there
was a place for drainage, she would be for it. Ms. Hulbert said they will do the calculations at the end of
the right of way, elevation will match what would need to be there for curb, gutter, and sidewalk when they
come in to pour, wont have to go back and redo it all. Will cause drainage issue more expensive for Magna
to fix, than if we forgo the curb, gutter, and sidewalk, to tell them to pipe it way high up is quite a burden.
Commissioner Elieson said concern with delay agreement what is in there to enforce. Ms. Hulbert said can
talk with Magna’s attorney and her request is to not require a delay agreement and not have them put it in.
Commissioner Cripps said he likes having the prep and installing would cost more headache and solve but
would like a starting point at some time and the attorneys look at the delay agreement, but ten years is a
lot. Ms. Hulbert said changing the time period can be done but need a storm drain to change something.
Commissioner Lockwood said sounds like staff recommends denying and engineering recommends we do
not deny. Ms. Hulbert said engineering does not recommend causing a drainage issue and would deny the
curb, gutter, and sidewalk. Ms. Martinez said MSD planning just provides a recommendation based on
ordinance, exception should be denied.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant, Jacobson Construction
Name: Scott Braithwaite
Address: 3131 West 2210 South
Comments: Mr. Braithwaite said their position stays the same and meet three engineering
recommendations. Position for curb and gutter does not change and is a liability. Seeking to have it not
installed. See value in doing what engineering recommends and want to be good neighbors.

Commissioner Weight motioned to open the public portion of the meeting, Commissioner Lockwood
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


No one from the public present to speak.


Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 29, 2020 – Meeting Summary                         Page 2 of 3
Commissioner Elieson motioned to close the public portion of the hearing, Commissioner Lockwood
seconded that motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners, Engineering and MSD Counsel had a brief discussion regarding impact and community
usage fees to create drainage in this area, and things have been moving.

Motion: To recommend application #31173 to Magna Metro Township Mayor for approval with Salt Lake
County Engineering three recommendations.
      Motion by: Commissioner Richards
      2nd by: Commissioner Weight
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Advised the next planning commission meeting will be July 9th.

Commissioner Cripps adjourned.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:09 p.m.




Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – June 29, 2020 – Meeting Summary             Page 3 of 3
                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.msd.utah.gov




                                                  File # 31183


           Conditional Use Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: July 9, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-21-200-019-0000
Current Zone: M-2/zc
Property Address: 2360 South 7200 West
Request: Conditional Use approval for a Manufacturing of Landscaping Materials Use
Applicant Name: Cris Kohles

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions



                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Cris Kohles, is requesting Conditional Use approval for a Manufacturing of Landscaping Materials
use. The project site is approximately 4.85 acres. This property was recently rezoned from A-20 to M-2 with
zoning conditions.

The applicant is proposing to have a small office trailer on-site for sales and daily operation. The rest of the
property will contain the stockpiles of materials used for his landscaping business. There will be small portable
equipment used to refine the material. This equipment will not be permanently placed on the property.

The applicant has not addressed the need for water and sewer availability on-site but that may be a
requirement from the health Department. Planning Staff has contacted the Health Department and will have
more information at the meeting.

                           SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located on 7200 West, just off Highway U201. The property across 7200 West to the east is in
West Valley City’s jurisdiction.

                                     NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent out to property owners within 300’ of this property. No response has been received as of
the writing of this report.
        Request: Conditional Use                                          File #: 31183


                                          ZONE CONSIDERATIONS

Chapters 19.68 -Lot Requirements
  Requirement                M-2/zc Zone
  Height                     None
                             No commercial or industrial building or
  Front Yard Setback         structure shall be located closer than 20
                             feet to any street.
  Side Yard Setback          None
  Rear Yard Setback          None
  Lot Width                  None
  Lot Area                   None
                             No building, structure or group of
                             buildings, with their accessory buildings,
  Lot Coverage
                             shall cover more than 80 percent of the
                             area of the lot.




                                  GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The General Plan for Magna Metro Township was adopted September 2012. The property is located on a
mapped General Plan corridor which is labeled as an area of “moderate change”. Therefore, the development
of this land is encouraged. It should be noted that the General Plan for the Magna Metro Township is currently
being updated by the MSD Planning Staff.


                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Issues of concern for this project include ground liquefaction, which is in the HIGH level, and overall
groundwater, which is high on a seasonal track. These issues will be looked at closely for mitigating resolutions
by the Urban Hydrologist, Geologist and Grading Supervisor.

The applicant submitted an application for an Exception Request to waive the curb, gutter, and sidewalk
requirements. This item will be heard as a separate application on July 9, 2020.
County Engineering is recommending a 10-year delay agreement for all roadway improvements. The MSD
Planning Staff will further assess this situation and will provide a recommendation for this item.


                                   REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
The agency reviewers have come back with “Conceptual Ok’ed” responses, meaning the proposed conceptual
plan is acceptable, but revisions and/or more information will be required for technical review.

Agency: Geology           Review Date: 6/15/2020
                          • Review Comments: -
                                 The site occurs in a high liquefaction zone, therefore the “Geological Hazards
                                 Disclosure and Acknowledgement form” needs to be filled out, recorded and
                                 submitted.
Conditional Use Summary                                                                                 Page 2 of 4
        Request: Conditional Use                                         File #: 31183




Agency: Grading           Review Date: 6/5/2020
                          • Review Comments:
                                 1- Need to maintain drive access around the perimeter of the site inside the
                                     fence.
                                 2- Need to show how the storm water will be maintained on site.
                                 3- Will need to obtain an Industrial SWPPP and NOI from the State of Utah
                                     DEQ Water Quality.




                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.84.050 Approval/Denial Authority
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.

   1. Planning Commission Approval.
          1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public
              meeting.
          2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
              meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the
              director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
          3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
              satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
          4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
              commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be
              granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
          5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
              reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to
              review and take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the
              applicant of the meeting date.
          6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning
              commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section
              19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.
   2. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
          1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed
              for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
          2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner
              and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in
              Section 19.84.060; or
          3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards
              outlined in Section 19.84.060.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017
Conditional Use Summary                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
        Request: Conditional Use                                  File #: 31183




                            PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff is recommending that the Planning Commission grant Conditional Use approval for
the Manufacturing of Landscaping Materials use at 2360 South 7200 West subject to the following conditions:
          1. The applicant shall comply with all MSD and Outside Agency Reviewer requirements and
              recommendations prior to final application approval.
          2. That all bonds for improvements and final fees related to the application be posted and/or
              paid prior to final approval.
          3. The applicant must obtain a building permit for the office trailer.
          4. If required by the Health Department or Building Department, applicant must comply with the
              requirement of hooking into the water and sewer lines.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                          Page 4 of 4
N




            U-201

        8           7
    8               2
    4   0
        0           0
    0               0
    0   0

        w           w
    w
N


                       West Valley City




            U201 Highway




    Magna
             Area for Material to be Screened (Dump Area)
                                                                                                                                                                                              Office Trailer
                                                                                                                                                Stockpiling of
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gate 30'
                                                                                                                                                Screened
                                                                                                                                                Material For
                                                                                                                                                Sale                                                Parking
                                         Drive access




Proposed                                                      Processing Area for
fencing?                                                      Machines and
                                                              Equipment
                            Storm Water Flow
                                                                                                                                                                                               Special
                                                                                                                                                                                              Material
           Staging area for Spoils and                                                                                                                  Route For Trucks and Loading
                                                                                                                                                                                             Stockpiling
           Material to be Crushed



                                                                                                                      * Gate to be purposed at 30' construced of steel

                                                                                                                      * Site to be graded to slope to west end of property for storm water         Industrial
                                                                                                                      *Fugitive Dust Plan will be in place once leased                             development
                                                                                                                                                                                                   must show 20'
                                                           Conceptual Site Plan Review
                                                                                                                      *Fence will be 6'-8' tall constructed of fabricated panneling                strip of
                                                                 Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                 Planning              dimartinez: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/17/2020


                                                 Grading            Approved- See Comments Sheet
                                                                      mgeorge: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/09/2020
                                                                                                                      concept ok'ed                                                                landscaping on
                                                               Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                 Geology

                                                 Hydrology
                                                                        Adahir: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/15/2020
                                                               Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                                                                                                   street frontage
                                                                        Adahir: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/15/2020
                                                               Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                 Surveyor
                                                                      GCates: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/20/2020

                                                 Traffic       Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                       Adahir: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/15/2020

                                                 UFA           Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                        Degbert: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/22/2020

                                                                Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                 Health             ztorres-george: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/05/2020

                                                                     Approved - See Comments Sheet
                                                 Building
                                                                       tsorensen: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/04/2020
                                                               Concept O.K. - Technical Review Required
                                                                                                                      concept ok'ed
                                                 Operations          ksmeltzer: 31183_SitePlan_Kohls 06/09/2020
                                      Planning and Development Services
                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                      msd.utah.gov




                                                File # 31211


        Exception Request Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: July 9, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-21-200-019-0000
Current Zone: M-2/zc
Property Address: 2360 South 7200 West
Request: Exception Request for exception to roadway improvements (curb, gutter, and sidewalk)
Applicant Name: Cris Kohles

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Denial



                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Cris Kohles, is requesting a waiver from the required roadway improvements which include curb,
gutter and sidewalk along this property frontage at 2360 South 7200 West.




                          SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The subject property is located along 7200 West, just off Highway U201. The property across 7200 West to the
east is in West Valley City’s jurisdiction.
        Request: Exception Request                                     File #: 31211




                                     PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Although this property is on the north side of U201 Highway in the industrial area of Magna, Staff believes that
these required roadway improvements should be installed to start the process of getting appropriate roadway
improvements.

This area is part of the proposed Utah Inland Port Authority dry port; therefore, Staff believes that roadways
improvements will be a necessity for this area as the inland port is developed.

County Engineering is recommending that a 10-year delay agreement be approved for the installation of curb,
gutter and sidewalk improvements (Recommendation is attached).

                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

The MSD Planning staff recommends that the Magna Metro Township Planning Commission forward a negative
recommendation to the Magna Metro Mayor (or his designee) indicating that the Exception Request for
Roadway Improvements be denied, and that the Roadway Improvements be installed as required.




Exception Request Summary                                                                               Page 2 of 2
                        Planning and Development Services
                        2001 S State Street N3-600
                        Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                        Phone: (385) 468-6700
                        www.msd.utah.gov


       Circle as Applicable:               Agency Review Comment Sheet
    Plans are Conceptually O.K.            Traffic Comments
                                           Reviewer Name: Ahmed Dahir
        Revisions Required                 Phone Number: 385-468-6608
                                           Email Address: Adahir@slco.org
     Additional Items Required
                                           Date of Review: 6/15/2020


Comments on Conceptual Plans:
1.Need to show proposed grading and retaining for the driveway.
2.A 10 year delay agreement be granted for the installation of curb, gutter, and sidewalk.
3. The regrading of the entire right-of-way area beyond the new roadway and installation of 4" (min)
deep gravel in anticipation of the future improvements (Curb, gutter, Sidewalk, etc.)
4. Current right-of-way does not provide a half width of 43 feet on 7200 West. 38 feet of roadway
dedication is required to meet a future half width of 43 feet.




Comments and Items for Technical Review:
                                          Planning and Development Services
                                          2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                          Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                          www.msd.utah.gov




                                                     File # 31196


           Conditional Use Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: July 9, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-16-200-070-0000
Current Zone: A-20
Property Address: 7501 W. California Avenue
Request: Conditional Use for expansion of an existing landfill
Applicant Name: Rob Reynolds

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approve request for conditional use with conditions




                                           PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Rob Reynolds, is requesting Conditional Use approval to expand an existing landfill. The original
landfill is on property that is within Salt Lake City’s jurisdiction. This expansion property is 40 acres in size and is
the west of the existing landfill. The proposal is half the size of the original operation. When reached by phone,
a Salt Lake City Planner expressed no concerns related to this proposal.

The expansion will not have water or sewer connections, and no structures will be built on the site.


                             SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located off California Avenue (which is approximately 1300 South).

The property to the direct north of the subject property is the Salt Lake City Model Plane Airport. To the west is
the site for the new Dominion Energy Liquid Gas Facility, with properties to the south being vacant land.

In the near vicinity is the Waste Control Management landfill, the asbestos waste landfill and the Kennecott
tailings area as well as the Magna Water District and other industrial use facilities.
        Request: Conditional Use                                  File #: 31196




                                   LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
The conditional use is compatible with other uses, as most properties in the vicinity are zoned or used for
manufacturing/industrial.




                               GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The current General Plan for Magna Metro Township was adopted September 2012. The property is
located on a mapped General Plan corridor which is planned for an area of “moderate change” and
encourages compatible development. Therefore, the development of this land is encouraged. It
should be noted that the General Plan for the Magna Metro Township is currently being updated by
the MSD Planning Staff.


                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
There are no issues in the conceptual review. As part of the development process, a technical review
will be performed providing the request is granted preliminary approval by the Planning Commission.


                                   NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent to property owners within 300’ of property. No neighborhood response has
been received as of the writing of this report.


                               REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
Agency reviewers approved the preliminary plan, with standard revisions and conditions to be met.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                          Page 2 of 4
        Request: Conditional Use                                         File #: 31196


                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

The conditional use is compatible with the General Plan and goals of the Magna Community.
19.84.050 Approval/Denial Authority
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.

   1. Planning Commission Approval.
          1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public
              meeting.
          2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
              meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the
              director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
          3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
              satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
          4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
              commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be
              granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
          5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
              reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to
              review and take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the
              applicant of the meeting date.
          6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning
              commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section
              19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.
   2. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
          1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed
              for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
          2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner
              and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in
              Section 19.84.060; or
          3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards
              outlined in Section 19.84.060.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
        Request: Conditional Use                                     File #: 31196




                             PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff is recommending that the Planning Commission grant approval of the Conditional
Use for the Expansion of an Existing Landfill at 7501 W. California Avenue, subject to the following conditions:

    1. That The proposed use and development shall not present a traffic hazard due to poor site design
       nor anticipated traffic increases on the adjacent road network, nor exceed the amounts prescribed
       in the County Transportation Master Plan.
    2. That The proposed use and site development shall not pose a threat to the safety of persons who
       work or visit the property nor pose a threat to the safety of residents or properties in the vicinity by
       failing to adequately address: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions, liquefaction
       potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental
       health hazards, or wetlands.
    3. That the applicant complies with all agency reviewer requirements and revisions recommendations.
    4. That all final engineering fees and/or any improvement bonds must be paid prior to the release of
       the land use permit and any required business licenses.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                              Page 4 of 4
N


    California Avenue (approx 1300 South)




         Landfill
         expansion
         within Magna
         Township
         jurisdiction
                          Original landfill
                          within Salt Lake
                          City jurisdiction
                           California Avenue (1300 South)




Landfill expansion area                                 Salt Lake
                                                        City
                                                        jurisdiction




                   Magna Township
                   jurisdiction
                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        msd.utah.gov




                                                    File #31181


 Plat Amendment to an Existing Planned Unit Development
Public Body: Magna Metro Township Planning Commission                Meeting Date: July 9, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-21-451-059                                             Current Zone: R-M/zc
Property Address: 2612-2618 South Fernhill Lane
Request: Amendment of Planned Unit Development Plat

Planner: Travis Hair
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval
Applicant Name: Michael Margetts


                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant Michael Margetts, on behalf of Planetree Housing is requesting a Plat Amendment to the existing
Colony Farms PUD Plat in order to divide Lot 55 into 4 separate parcels. The existing lot has 4 townhouse units in
the process of being built on it as a part of the Colony Farms development. The owner would like to divide these
into separate lots to sell them individually.



                           SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located at numbers 2612, 2614, 2616 and 2618 South Fernhill Lane in the Colony Farms
subdivision. The property is zoned R-M and the development has been approved and recorded in 2018.
                                                                       File #: 31181




                                 GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The property is located along the 7200 West Corridor and specific General Plan Projects include improvements
to the corridor to increase capacity as well as Gateway Beautification elements at this location. Adaptable and
flexible changes are anticipated along this corridor. This specific project will have no additional impact or
changes to those uses found in the general plan as the density and uses remain the same, the only difference
this change would create is the ownership of the units being built.



                        ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
The only known concerns are related to ensuring that the units change in ownership would not impact the
development or the limited common area that is outlined around the units. Due to the unique nature of the
Colony Farms development and that groups of units were intended to be owned and then rented out; each unit
already pays into the HOA which maintains the common areas. The division of the lot/unit would not change
that in any way and so long as the units continue to pay those fees either as a group, or individually there would
be no change to the development or common area associated with the units.


                                 REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
AGENCY: Surveyor
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual approval
   • Update the date on the plat
   • Use the Magna Metro Township title block template (see PDF)
   • Show entire width of Laxey St. and Geraint St.
   • Show lot corners around the parcel and show in the legend (type and material)
   • Show ownership – Planetree Housing, LLC
   • Need current title report, with description matching
   • Need a Letter of Conformation that the corners will be set
   • Need Record of Survey (2019P-2)
   • The description doesn’t need metes, just show:
      All of Lot 55, Colony Farms Subdivision, as recorded in the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder as
      Entry # 12912961, in Book 2019P, at Page 2.

AGENCY: Planning
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual approval
   • Combine utility providers other than water into one signature block with lines in for each provider.
   • Lots need to be named differently as lots can't be lot 1 of lot 55 amended. I would recommend using
      "Lot 55-C" etc. for the individual lots. If the units already have letters assigned for other reasons as
      shown on the existing plat, keep those letters (C through F)

AGENCY: Building
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual approval




PUD Plat Amendment                                                                                      Page 2 of 3
                                                                       File #: 31181

No change as far as building code review. Building permits are required for the construction of the townhomes.
2-hour fire separations are required between each unit. The building permits for these townhomes are already
in place and include the required fire separations.

                                     PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Utah State Code 10-9a-609 allows a land use authority to approve plat amendments so long as:

    (1)     The land use authority may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an amended
            plat showing the vacation or amendment if the land use authority finds that:
            (a)     there is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and
            (b)     no public street or municipal utility easement has been vacated or amended

Staff believes that good cause exists as this allows for residents to own units rather than solely for rental uses
and does not have a negative impact on the surrounding area. The proposed amendment also does not impact a
public street or utility easement as the units are on the same approved footprint as approved with the original
subdivision.

Additionally, according to the building department this type of division was already contemplated with the
approval of the Colony Farms Subdivision as it was assumed that at least some owners of the units may want to
sell the units individually. Fire breaks, separate entrances and fire sprinklers have already been mandated as a
part of the approved plans.

Staff has determined that the only impact of this division would be to create the separate ownership with no
other impacts anticipated.

                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Metro Township Planning Commission grant preliminary
approval for the plat amendment with the following conditions:
    1. Comply with requirements of reviewing entities and staff through the subsequent technical review
       process and complete any changes prior to submitting a mylar for signature and recording.
    2. The approved plat must be recorded within one year of approval or the approval will expire and require
       a new application.




PUD Plat Amendment                                                                                      Page 3 of 3
                                             GERAINT ST. (PRIV
                                                                                                                   COLONY FARMS
                                                                  ATE)
                                                                                                                    SUBDIVISION,
                                                                                                                  LOT 55 AMENDED

                                           N 89°50'41" E 45.00'                                                                                                            ”
                                                                                                                                    ”



                                                                                                                                            ”
                                                                                                                                        ”
                                                                                                                                            ”
                                                                                                                                        ”




                                                                                         FERNHILL LN. (PRIVATE)
                  N 0°09'19" W 60.00'




                                                                   S 0°09'19" E 60.00'
                                           S 89°50'41" W 45.00'




                                        LAXEY ST. (PRIVATE)




20   21   21 21                                                                                                   21   22          COLONY FARMS SUBDIVISION,
          28 28                                                                                                   28   27
29   28
                                                                                                                                       LOT 55 AMENDED


                                                                                                                                                 DIAMOND LAND SURVEYING, LLC

                                                                                                                                                             5243 South Green Pine Drive
                                                                                                                                                                 Murray, Utah 84123
                                                                                                                                                         office@diamondlandsurveying.com
                                                                                                                                                        Phone (801) 266-5099 Fax 266-5032
                                 MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                 ORDINANCE No. _________

                                     OVERPRESSURE ZONE

                AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                REVISING SUBDIVISION RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTAIN AREAS IN
                               THE OVERPRESSURE ZONE

WHEREAS, Sections 19.76.270, 18.20.060, 15.14.010, 15.14.030, 15.14.040, and 15.14.050 of
the Magna Code of Ordinances, without limitation, impose various restrictions on development
within the overpressure zone; and

WHEREAS, Section 18.20.060 has previously restricted all subdivision of parcels within the 0.5
psi overpressure area; and

WHEREAS, the restriction on subdivisions is separate and distinct from the use, health and
safety, and other restrictions in place to protect Magna Metro Township and its residents and
workers from the overpressure zone; and

WHEREAS, subdivision of parcels within the 0.5 psi overpressure area will allow appropriate
development subject to the use, zoning, and development restrictions affecting all
development within the overpressure zone and the 0.5 overpressure area; and

WHEREAS, on July 9, 2020, the Magna Planning Commission reviewed and recommended the
adoption of the amendment contained in this ordinance, which staff and attorney have
reviewed; and

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council does hereby determine that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Magna to amend the Magna Code
of Ordinances as stated herein.

NOW THEREFORE, be it hereby ordained by the legislative body of the Magna Metro Township:

   1. Amendment to Section 18.20.060 of the Magna Code of Ordinances 2017.

   The third sentence of Section 18.20.060 of the Magna Code of Ordinances 2017, “New
   subdivisions shall not be approved in the 0.5 psi overpressure area.”, is hereby deleted and
   replaced with the following:

              Subdivision approvals in the 0.5 psi overpressure area shall not alter or
              modify any existing restrictions on the lot existing prior to subdivision,
              including without limitation restricted uses, zoning designation, and
              prohibitions identified in Section 19.76.270 of the Magna Code of
              Ordinances 2017, as amended.

    2. This ordinance will take effect 15 days after its passage and upon at least one
       publication in a newspaper publishes in and having general circulation in Magna Metro
       Township of Salt Lake County, and if not so published within 15 days then it will take
       effect immediately upon its first publication.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this ____ day of _________,
2020.

                                                  By: _________________________________
                                                         Dan W. Peay, Mayor
ATTEST

______________________________________
Sherrie Swenson, Metro Township Clerk/Recorder

APPROVED AS TO FORM:


____________________________________
Magna Metro Township Attorney

VOTING
Councilmember Pierce        __________
Councilmember Hull          __________
Mayor Peay                  __________
Councilmember Peel          __________
Councilmember Prokopis      __________

Ordinance/summary published in newspaper on ___________, 2020.
Effective date of Ordinance: ________.
