                                              Planning and Development Services
                                              2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                              Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




 Magna Metro Township General Plan Steering Committee
                                      Special Working Meeting Agenda

                  Thursday, September 24, 2020 6:00 P.M.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
Join by phone
Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The General Plan Steering Committee meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda
  item, the Steering Committee may receive comment and recommendations from the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding the creation of the general plan and other items on
  the Committee’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Steering Committee takes action on these
  items, which may include recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                            BUSINESS MEETING

General Plan Work Session

    6:00-7:30 Future Land Use
                 • Draft Goal Review
    7:30      Conclude

Other Business Items (as needed)
                                                       ADJOURN




September 24, 2020                                                         AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
    1. Economic Development and Activity Centers
Goal - Promote responsible and sustainable growth though development of viable commercial, employment,
and activity centers that serve the community.

Strategy 1: UPDATE AND IMPROVE MAGNA’S HISTORIC MAIN STREET (DOWNTOWN)

Encourage development and redevelopment of Magna Main Street to strengthen its role as a historical center
and urban district through expansion of the RDA and addition of a “form-based” regulations.

Action: Identify and prioritize key parcels for land banking to help promote larger-scaled development in
downtown. Develop a land banking program.

Action: Adopt zoning that addresses building form, setbacks, parking, landscaping, block structure, uses, and
other components within Main Street to encourage appropriate redevelopment/development patterns to
protect the historic character of Main Street and encourage economic development.

Action: Develop an incentive and reinvestment policy to encourage private investment of existing buildings
and businesses.



Strategy 2: DEVELOP STRATEGIC CATALYTIC AREAS

Create a diverse and balanced pattern of development by integrating a balance of context-sensitive uses
within major activity and commercial centers.

Action: Explore creating special overlay districts that include nuanced regulations and guidelines to
encourage quality development along key corridors and strategic commercial nodes.

Action: Identify and promote redevelopment sites and development locations and promote these
opportunities to developers, brokers, and end-users that align with the vision for each catalyst areas.

Action: Explore the development of small area plans that envision redevelopment in key infill locations taking
into account underutilized tracts, opportunities to integrate additional development within catalyst sites,
taking into account ownership, zoning, infrastructure, incentives, development constraints, and overall vision.

Action: Explore policies that can encourage local partners to make investments within key corridors and
nodes to improve properties.

Action: Develop a market-based economic development strategy that identifies appropriate targeted
prospects that can serve as catalyst’s and anchor new development activity or fill existing vacancies.

Action: Create policies and strategies to improve public infrastructure and investment within key catalyst
areas, including enhanced landscaping, wayfinding, street amenities, and incentives to encourage
redevelopment of key locations.



Strategy 3: MARKETING AND ATTRACTION

Continue to promote, recruit, and encourage new corporate and commercial development in Magna

Action: Participate in regional, statewide, and national economic development marketing opportunities to
elevate the awareness and value proposition of “Why Magna.”
Action: Explore engaging a national recruitment firm to help promote Magna’s economic development
opportunities to national retailers.

Action: Recapture sales revenue through strategic commercial development by promoting commercial
vacancies and development opportunities within the community.

Action: Update Magna’s website, social media, and marketing materials to promote Magna.

Action: Engage in continuous marketing of Magna through positive news stories, social medial articles, and
publications about Magna’s successes.



Strategy 4: DEVELOPING VIBRANT AND HEALTHY NEIGHBORHOODS

Identify strategies to improve or create targeted redevelopment that serve as gateways to existing and
future residential neighborhoods.

Action: Develop a neighborhood assessment to identify changes in neighborhoods over time, explore issues
that can be mitigated, and encourage change through local empowerment.

Action: Create a community outreach and support program that prioritizes and targets neighborhoods to
receive City resources; including funding and outreach.

Action: Collaborate with non-profit and community organizations to generate a database of community
resources that can leverage investments in neighborhood revitalization.



Strategy 5: BUSINESS RETENTION AND EXPANSION

Coordinate with Salt Lake County RDA, inland port, and other state governmental authorities to continue to
invest public funds in strategic areas that will increase higher paying jobs within targeted industries.

Action: Develop an economic development strategic plan to underwrite and identify targeted industries.

Action: Conduct major employer visits to existing businesses to maintain business relationships, identify
needed skills

Action: Host annual business appreciation events to update existing businesses on Magna activities.

Action: Maintain relationships with existing small businesses and other relevant organizations and programs
available to ensure small businesses and local operators are sustainable.

Action: Conduct a series of annual roundtable discussions with various industries to maintain current trends,
challenges, and opportunities that Magna can harness.

Action: Maintain a list of available sites for various targeted industries and make available on an economic
section of Magna’s websites and marketing materials



Strategy 6: GROW MAGNA’S LOCAL TALENT BASE

Encourage employment of area residents by Magna-based businesses and provide resources to promote
skill development and talent retainment.

Action: Explore opportunities to grow and leverage local workforce programs to improve skills and talent of
Magna’s talent base.

Action: Support programs with the local ISD and regional higher educational partners to support the business
needs of local employers.
Action: Pursue federal and state programs that can encourage skills training and support regional economic
development

Action: Partner with local communities to jointly market the region to targeted industries.

Action: Work with local businesses to maintain labor and workforce needs and align programs to foster a
stronger talent base.

Action: Explore programs and incentives to cultivate, retain, and/or recruit young talent in Magna, including
youth leadership programs, community involvement, and local non-profits.



Strategy 7: ENHANCE CONNECTIVITY

Enhance connectivity as identified in the Transportation Master Plan to connect neighborhoods, corridors
commercial nodes and open space.

Action: Prioritize missing sidewalk segments

Action: Establish annual goals for sidewalk construction and improvements



Strategy 8: PROMOTE LONG-TERM FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY

Identify future uses with the goal of fiscal long-term sustainability and pursuit of city status in the future.




    2. Parks, Trails, & Open Space Goal and Strategies
Goal - Improve access and quality of parks, trails, and open space for all areas of Magna.

Strategy 1: Implement policies and funding to maintain at least the current parks level of service at 3.4 acres
per 1,000 people or better.

Strategy 2: Strive for a maximum 10-minute walk from most homes and businesses to the nearest trail,
publicly available open space area, or park.

Strategy 3: Pursue opportunities to acquire land for neighborhood parks in strategic locations to achieve a
maximum 10-minute walk for most homes and businesses.

Strategy 4: Coordinate with local developers and private interests to construct and maintain parks and trails
in underserved areas.

Strategy 5: Complete a trails master plan that identifies a recommended alignment for the Magna Loop Trail
system to connect all existing, planned, and future parks in the community and circle Magna.

Strategy 6: Improve trail connectivity between Magna, surrounding municipalities, and Salt Lake County.

Strategy 7: Develop partnerships with utility companies and irrigation companies for trail corridors.
Strategy 8: Improve sidewalks through a sidewalk improvement program based on the sidewalk assessment
completed as part of the Transportation Master Plan. Prioritize school walk routes, connectivity to mixed use
and community areas, and currently underserved neighborhoods.

Strategy 9: Complete an annexation master plan for Magna’s Annexation Declaration area that creates public
access to open space and natural amenities within the future annexation area.

Strategy 10: Include recommended future Oquirrh range trails within the Annexation Declaration area in the
trails master plan.

Strategy 11: Create a critical lands/open space strategy to preserve environmentally critical areas along the
lake front and in the Annexation Declaration area.

Strategy 12: Provide opportunities for community cleanup events to improve pride of ownership for local
parks, trails, and open space and to reduce waste disposal in public areas.

Goal - Ensure adequate and sustainable funding for parks, trails, and open space assets.

Strategy 1: Identify appropriate ongoing funding sources for construction and maintenance of parks, trails,
and open space through grant funding options and targeted distribution of Township Budget.

Strategy 2: Implement development requirements that include minimum parks and trails construction and
maintenance standards.

Strategy 3: Work closely with Salt Lake County to ensure minimum standards for construction, operations,
and maintenance of existing and future Salt Lake County-owned parks and trials.




    3. Transportation and Mobility (Still in Revision)
Promote land use development patterns that provide high quality of life opportunities to all and offer multiple
mobility choices.

Strategy 1: Adopt measures to create pedestrian priority in major centers, especially

along Main Street and develop other places that encourage walking and street life.

Strategy 2: Create additional parking opportunities near Magna Main Street.

Strategy 3: Develop bicycle routes and paths that can be integrated within the street

network and with trail systems, canals, and greenways.

Strategy 4: Encourage transit-oriented development (TOD) in key areas along

existing and future transit routes.

Strategy 5: Coordinate with UTA to improve transit facilities along the existing MAX

bus rapid transit line on 3500 South, as well as other bus connections to the 3500 South
corridor.

Strategy 6: Provide a balanced transportation system that will accommodate all

modes of travel, while implementing traffic calming and access management measures

in high activity and residential areas to ensure the safety of residents.

Strategy 7: Coordinate with regional policy makers to adopt “Safe Routes to School”

legislation that will improve the quality of access to schools for students.

Strategy 8: Include a robust traffic plan for the new high school

Notes to be incorporated: We are missing safe routes to most elementary schools, which are all considered
“walking schools”

Bicycle routes are treacherous at best. – Connect routes (in previous active transportation plan) and have
them all loop (Magna Loop) and connect into route that goes along the Salt Lake Canal to loop in all
transportation

The county has received some money for trail connections which will need to be developed further.




    4. Housing
Provide abundant and diverse housing options for a variety of needs and income levels to create places
where all citizens are welcome to live.

Strategy 1: Provide sufficient housing for current and future populations that is safe and affordable for a
range of income levels while preserving existing housing.

Action: Actively integrate MIH into development and redevelopment standards to address gaps in the
housing market.

Action: Adopt a “Good Landlord Program” into the Metro Township with diligent code enforcement and the
adoption of a Short-term Rental Ordinance to reduce the number of absentee landlords to develop
assimilation within existing residential areas.

Strategy 2: Develop diverse housing options that allow a complete occupancy life cycle and options for
populations to “age in place”

Action: Encourage walkable residential mixed-use areas to support the daily needs of older residents

Action: Encourage residential development near, parks, trails, and open space.

Action: Consider the placement of transit routes to fulfill mobility needs for residents of all ages

Strategy 3:   Promote higher density, mixed-use development in appropriate areas, especially along the
historic Magna Main corridor and key catalyst areas.
Action: Expand the RDA in Old Magna to 3100 South

Active: Identify and prioritize opportunity zones for development and redevelopment

Strategy 4: Encourage residential development that establishes a diversity of lot sizes, dwelling types,
densities, and price points, as well as a compatible balance of owner-occupied and rental units.

Action: Action: Write and adopt an ADU Ordinance to guide ADU permitting

Action: Identify ADU funding assistance options for residents

Strategy 5: Develop safe and visually pleasing residential neighborhoods that are integrated that are within
a 10-minute walk from parks, open space, or trail systems.

Action: Consider sidewalk upgrades and additions to promote accessibility

Action: Develop neighborhood “gateways” to distinguish different areas in the Metro Township

Strategy 6: Explore grant and funding opportunities to support neighborhood stabilization and pride of
ownership.

Action: Aid through grants and funding programs to make needed repairs and updates for safe housing.
