                                            Planning and Development Services
                                            2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                            Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                            https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




            Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
                                          Public Meeting Agenda

                    Thursday, February 11, 2021 6:30 P.M.
Pursuant to HB 5002 as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4), Dan Cripps has determined in his capacity as
Chair of the Magna Metro Township Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will be held
electronically without an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which
the Chair has determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at an
anchor location. To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please
use the below webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                          BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Welcome and Introduction of new Planning Commissioner, Sara VanRoosendaal.
    2) Approval of the January 14, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)
    3) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

February 11, 2021                                  Page 1 of 2            AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

Magna Metro Township is considering adopting the proposed 2021 Magna General Plan, which
plans for the areas within Magna Metro Township. The 2021 General Plan is Magna's first
comprehensive plan since incorporation as a metro township in 2017. The Plan synthesizes data
and public feedback to describe current conditions, envision Magna's future, and guide Magna
from present conditions toward that desired vision. This General Plan meets the required State
laws for general planning, including elements on Land Use, Transportation, and Moderate-Income
Housing. It also includes the following supplemental elements: Introduction & Overview;
Planning Process; Catalyst Areas & Economic Stability; Parks, Trails, Recreation & Open Space;
Natural Hazards; Community Services & Facilities; Sustainability; and Implementation & Work
Plan. Planner: Kate Davies (Motion/Voting)

Please visit: http://bit.ly/lrp-magna to view a copy of the 2021 Magna General Plan.


OAM2021-000220 - Magna Metro Township Planning Commission will consider a
recommendation to the Magna Metro Township Council regarding amendments to Chapter 19.69
of the Magna Municipal Code, governing the “P-C” or “Planned Community” zone. The
amendments intend to allow broader use of the P-C zone to allow Magna to take advantage of
more diverse advanced planning activities in the development process. Planner: Travis Hair
(Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed public hearing items after taking comments
from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the
planning commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public
comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

                                          ADJOURN




February 11, 2021                           Page 2 of 2        AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



February 11, 2021                                                     AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                       WRITTEN DETERMINATION – NO ANCHOR LOCATION

                       The Magna Metro Township Planning Commission is scheduled to hold a business
8952 West Magna Main   meeting on February 11, 2021, beginning at 6:30 pm. Immediately following the
       Street
                       business meeting, the Commission will hold a public hearing to consider general plan
  Magna, Utah 84044
                       and code amendment recommendations. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4),
                       I, Dan Cripps, have determined in my capacity as the Chair of the Magna Metro
                       Township Planning Commission to hold the business meeting and the public meeting
                       without an anchor location due to COVID19, which presents a substantial risk to the
                       health and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location. This written
                       determination shall expire 30 days from today.

                                               Dated this _____ day of _________, 2021.


                                               By________________________________
                                               Dan Cripps
                                               Chair, Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
                                                      Planning and Development Services
                                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                        MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Thursday, January 14, 2021 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 28 minutes                       *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 15                                   found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                     Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Cripps

                                                 ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                                               Public      Business
                                Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                           Mtg          Mtg
       Dan Cripps (Chair)        x           x
       Ammon Lockwood            x           x                               Wendy Gurr                      x            x
         Aaron Weight            x           x                              Diana Martinez                   x            x
         Mark Elieson                                  x                    Julia Friedman                   x            x
        Todd Richards            x           x                                Travis Hair                    x            x
                                                                             Jim McNulty                     x            x
                                                                             Jay Springer                    x            x



                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:36 p.m.
Commissioner Cripps read the Electronic Meeting and Chairs Opening Statement.

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2021. (Motion/Voting)
       Election of Chair for 2021
       Motion: To nominate Commissioner Cripps as Chair for 2021, Commissioner Cripps accepted that
       nomination.
              Motion by: Commissioner Lockwood
              2nd by: Commissioner Richards
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Election of Vice Chair for 2021
        Motion: To nominate Commissioner Weight as Vice Chair for 2021, Commissioner Weight
        accepted that nomination.
               Motion by: Commissioner Lockwood
               2nd by: Commissioner Richards
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    2) Approval of the December 10, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the December 10, 2020 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as presented.

Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                      Page 1 of 8
               Motion by: Commissioner Richards
               2nd by: Commissioner Lockwood
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioners moved the remaining business items after the public meeting. Commissioner Richards
motioned to close the business meeting and open the public portion, Commissioner Lockwood seconded
that motion.
                                       LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                       Hearings began at – 6:46 p.m.

CUP2020-000104 - Robert Boldt is requesting Conditional Use approval for an Oversized Accessory
Building (2,000 square foot garage), for a parcel greater than ½ acre. Acreage: 0.98 acres. Location: 9047
West 3200 South. Zone: R-1-6 (Residential). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Richards asked if the accessory buildings are under 25%. Ms. Martinez confirmed the only
thing on the property is a home. Commissioner Richards asked about the garage, Commissioner Lockwood
confirmed it is a new drive and new garage. Commissioner Cripps confirmed he is building outside of the
easement. Commissioner Richards asked if there is a requirement for fencing. Ms. Martinez said there is
not a requirement and have never put a requirement on accessory buildings.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Robert Boldt
Address: 9047 West 3200 South
Comments: Mr. Boldt said 3000 square foot concrete pad outside of the easement and move the building
to abide. For storage, trailer, or boat. Improve the property, western skill, quality, everything will look good
and upkeep the property.

Commissioner Richards asked about the side awning and open. Mr. Boldt said covered on west and south
side and just the front will be open and enclosed. Looking at a carport, 1200 square foot building with
driveway, carport coming off the side of the building. Commissioner Cripps confirmed looking at proper
setbacks and property line. Commissioner Lockwood confirmed purchasing from western steel, metal
siding. Mr. Boldt confirmed prefab, low maintenance. Commissioner Richards asked if there is electricity
to the building. Mr. Boldt confirmed just electricity and water, possibly a propane tank.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded that motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded that motion.


Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                       Page 2 of 8
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and applicant had a brief discussion regarding right-of-way, gravel driveway to get back
to the building, planning on putting down road base and gravel.

Motion: To approve application # CUP2020-000104 as presented with staff recommendations.
      Motion by: Commissioner Richards
      2nd by: Commissioner Lockwood
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)



EXP2020-000118 - Tamara Gunderson is requesting approval of a Special Exception to have a Non-
Conforming Use of a two-family dwelling declared legal. Acreage: 0.20 acres. Location: 3348 South 7780
West. Zone: R-1-6 (Residential). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Lockwood asked if this makes this legal, only for this property. Ms. Martinez confirmed that
is correct. Commissioner Lockwood said typical for ADU is owner occupied and do not understand their
property. Commissioner Cripps said according to requirements, they must have a building permit and
review and require upgrades and meeting code requirements. Commissioner Lockwood said number one is
difficult and discouraged. Mr. McNulty said six months out with ADU ordinance, being proactive, but will
not happen for six months for Magna, the planning commission can look at conditions they feel are needed
to mitigate the impacts and can stand on their own. Commissioner Weight asked if the basement parking
comes in from the neighbor’s driveway. Ms. Martinez confirmed it does not and is their property.
Commissioner Richards asked if there has been issues with code enforcement. Ms. Martinez confirmed went
back 10 years and there has never been an issue.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Tamara Gunderson
Address: 7253 South Beyonca Court
Comments: Ms. Gunderson asked if co-owner/son could speak.

Speaker # 2: Co-Owner
Name: Juston Puchar
Address: 3069 Ulandia Court, Cottonwood Heights
Comments: Mr. Puchar said have owned for 15 years and have five single family rentals right there. They
brought this up and trying to do the right thing. Had second electrical meter and try to be responsible, no
conflict with the neighbors. Not an ADU and no way to comply with owner occupancy. No problem with
municipality, one question and okay with revocation if cannot comply, change of ownership could damage
or challenge.

Commissioner Lockwood confirmed owned for 15 years. Mr. Puchar said has always been a rental since
purchase. Commissioner Richards asked if there is fire break between the two. Commissioner Cripps said

Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                   Page 3 of 8
will go through code and will have to make changes. Ms. Martinez said may need to upgrade and mitigate
for two family dwelling. No license is required at this time.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Lockwood seconded that
motion.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Troy Larsen
Address: 2674 South 8000 West
Comments: Mr. Larsen said this will open a can of worms. Lives and rents many single family. Many have
two entrances and could turn in to two rentals, could do and come back and ask for forgiveness. If they are
zoned single family, they should be maintained single family.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Lockwood seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners, Counsel, and staff had a brief discussion regarding zoning, multi-family zoning changed
in 2004 to single family by the County, Non-conforming use code and restrictions.

Motion: To approve application # EXP2020-000118 with staff recommendations, removing condition #1
and adding an additional condition: Any code violations be brought back to the Planning Commission for
review and possible revocation.
       Motion by: Commissioner Richards
       2nd by: Commissioner Weight
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)



SUB2020-000048 - Kennecott Utah Copper and Steve Layton are requesting approval of the proposed 4-
lot 201 Logistics Center Preliminary Subdivision Plat. Acreage: Approximately 89.52 acres. Location:
7600 West U201 Highway. Zone: M-1/zc (Manufacturing, Light Industrial). Planner: Diana Martinez
(Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Richards asked on final review if no changes, do they need that to come back to them. Ms.
Martinez confirmed it will not.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Steve Layton
Address: 9090 South Sandy Parkway



Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                   Page 4 of 8
Comments: Mr. Layton said property worked on for a year, master site for three years. Worked with staff
on many items. Grading issues are confident in geotechnical report, testing on site and good to go. Large
building, large site and remains singular building for many years. Feel confident in Layton construction
report. Traffic small items 7600 west, where right turn, semis drift into oncoming traffic and look into
throat. Detention basin the corner and makes widening the throat difficult, clean up turning radius issue.
Impact study done and a little traffic already and make sure done correctly, wanted background info ran at
80% and they wanted it at 90%.

Commissioner Richards asked for the width of 7600 west. Logan said face to face at 45 feet. Commissioner
Richards asked if that includes curb, gutter, and sidewalk. Ms. Martinez said it does not and confirmed 66
foot right of way. Commissioner Cripps asked for depth of the deepest boaring. Cones will be in proximity
to the boarings and would give the liquefaction. Commissioner Lockwood asked if connecting to Shay Lane.
Mr. Layton said Ritter Canal and no cross connectivity east/west.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Lockwood seconded that
motion.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Chad Harris
Address: 7916 West Thorough Drive
Comments: Mr. Harris asked if semis enter frontage road on 8000 west. Lives on first street of 8000, if
someone comes to turn left onto frontage road.

Mr. Layton said in theory, but most trucks will enter off 7200 with right turn ease and leave on 8000 turning
right on to highway. Mr. Layton said even a passenger taking that turn is difficult and works through with
drivers appropriate steps to enter and exit. Mr. McNulty said looking at four lot subdivision and each lot
will come back and be looked at case by case.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Troy Larsen
Address: 2674 South 8000 West
Comments: Mr. Larsen said when approved on 201, trucks were not supposed to bring up 8000 and take
7200 west. Whoever approved Beagley to dead end to homes, semis can run right into the homes there.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Chad Harris
Address: 7916 West Thorough Drive
Comments: Mr. Harris asked if Beagley Lane will allow semi-trucks.

Ms. Martinez said being worked out with county engineers and traffic impact study and if it cannot be
mitigated it will be a long time. Commissioner Richards said a widening to Beagley Lane will be done this
spring. Mr. Layton said design does include tractor trailer.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Chad Harris
Address: 7916 West Thorough Drive
Comments: Mr. Harris asked if there is discussion putting up sound barrier on the south side.

Mr. Layton said will be put on the next application.



Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                    Page 5 of 8
Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Lockwood seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding truck route and traffic impact study.

Motion: To approve application # SUB2020-000048 and recommend final plat approval with county
engineering or traffic study recommending a truck route for the properties and staff recommendations.
       Motion by: Commissioner Richards
       2nd by: Commissioner Lockwood
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


CUP2020-000064 - Steve Layton is requesting Conditional Use approval for a Warehouse/Office building
on Lot 1 of the proposed 201 Logistics Center Subdivision. Acreage: Approximately 56.59 acres.
Location: 2490 South 7600 West. Zone: M-1/zc (Manufacturing, Light Industrial). Planner: Diana
Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Steve Layton
Address: 9090 South Sandy Parkway
Comments: Mr. Layton said built to suit for international parcel delivery company FedEx. When involved
with this land, laid out a master plan project and never build itself without the tenant. Large and a lot of
vehicles and slightly less than fazed in to. This and traffic are one item, benefits with tenant work at night,
vehicles are way over parked for day to day and count for every employees head. Process with them for one
year, two meetings a week, architect, development representative and construction and helpful working
through items, built to suit and standard in their area. Number one site in the market is here, regional hub,
high paying jobs, run a good tight operation and thorough.

Commissioner Lockwood said this building has been built many times before and they are familiar. Mr.
Layton said down to the nuts and bolts. Site is odd, buildings are the copy/paste. Very helpful in driving, in
lieu of the municipalities. Ms. Martinez said discussed fencing with Mr. Layton and he commented the
tenant would want a chain link and if required fencing. Mr. Layton said fencing would cover the north,
southwest will have a sound wall on the entire south wall decorative. Commissioner Richards asked about
lighting. Mr. Layton confirmed on site and no encroachment and standard streetlights.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Chad Harris
Address: 7916 West Thorough Drive
Comments: Mr. Harris said his backyard up on Ritter Canal and now Beagley Lane. Disagrees with putting
a FedEx in backyard. Appreciates a sound and light barrier, but traffic will be ridiculous and already putting


Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                      Page 6 of 8
a gas station by the park and ride. The amount of volume to 8000 west and noise reverberation will echo
into his yard. Poor location considering up against neighborhoods. Hopes it is not approved.

Commissioner Richards said sound barrier will be north of Beagley Lane, quite a distance away from the
subdivision. Mr. Harris said good point as trucks drive down Beagley Lane but guarantee he will not hear
them.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Troy Larsen
Address: 2674 South 8000 West
Comments: Mr. Larsen said down the street. Pleased to hear there will be a sound barrier. Realistic this
will go through. Artistic side would like to see setbacks for the landscaping and mitigate and setback from
the roadway and trees to help with shields. Truckers picking easiest right to 201 on 8000 south and no left
turn on 7200.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Lockwood seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioners had a brief discussion regarding sound and sound barrier.

Motion: To approve application # CUP2020-000064 adding #6 on final plat approval, county engineering
and traffic recommend a truck route for this parcel and #7 coated chain link.
        Motion by: Commissioner Richards
        2nd by: Commissioner Lockwood
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)
REZ2020-000100 – Ronald Larsen is requesting to Rezone property from the R-1-6 (Single-Family
Residential) Zone to the R-2-6.5 (Multi-Family Residential) Zone. Acreage: Approximately 0.5 acres.
Location: 7637 West 3100 South. Planner: Julia Friedman (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed rezone after taking comments from the public during
the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of
conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Julia Friedman provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Richards asked if this will landlock the property to the North

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Ron Larsen
Address: 12464 South 3600 West


Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                   Page 7 of 8
Comments: Mr. Larsen said he bought the property to help long time employees. Do not need full half acre
lot, could do subdivision, and allow to stay in property. After rezone will subdivide east property. Will only
be two lots but makes sense to put a duplex on the one lot. Property to south belongs to Salt Lake County
conservancy district with no interest in selling.

Commissioner Weight asked if taking down existing house or subdivide just the other. Mr. Larsen said build
the duplex for employee to keep the cost down. R-2 to the west there are already six duplexes out there.

Commissioner Lockwood motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Lockwood seconded that
motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Lockwood motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval on application # REZ2020-000100 to the Magna Metro Township
Council with staff recommendations.
      Motion by: Commissioner Weight
      2nd by: Commissioner Lockwood
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                    BUSINESS MEETING (Continued)

                                        Meeting began at – 8:38 p.m.


Commissioner Weight said works with PRI and is ending that employment and working elsewhere and
wanted to disclose.

   3) Discussion Only: SLR/Ivory property (8230 West 4100 South) - Jim McNulty, MSD, Jay
      Springer, Legal Counsel, Bryon Prince, Ivory Homes.

       Commissioners, Counsel, staff, and Mr. Prince had a brief discussion regarding the property at
       8230 West 4100 South, development agreement and rezone, with a code amendment governing the
       P-C zone.

   4) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business Items to discuss.

Commissioner Weight motioned to adjourn.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 9:04 p.m.




Magna Metro Township Planning Commission – January 14, 2021 – Meeting Summary                     Page 8 of 8
To:    Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
From: Travis Hair, Planner
Date: February 4, 2021
Re:    Planned Community (P-C) Zone Amendment 19.69


Issue: The Magna Planning Commission and Township Council have requested that amendments
be made to the Planned Community (P-C) Zone allowing for additional development proposals in
Magna to use the zone. Specifically, the acreage requirements were previously set at a number
which restricts projects in Magna to develop under current ordinance.
Recommendation: Adopt the related ordinance as written updating the acreage requirements for
the P-C Zone and clarifying the P-C Zone process.
Supporting Documentation: The attached draft ordinance proposes changes to the current
ordinance as directed by the Magna Metro Township Council, Planning Commission and MSD
legal counsel. The proposed language modifies the minimum and maximum acreages that
qualify for the P-C zone. This amendment would allow for a parcel(s) with a minimum of 75 acres
to qualify. Changes have been made to the permitted and conditional uses based on the overall
property size, with requirements for properties between 75 - 200 acres, and those properties
exceeding 200 acres. Industrial and manufacturing uses are allowed as conditional uses with
Planning Commission and Council approval. Finally, the conditional use process has been
clarified so that properties being developed have a clear process to follow.




              2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114 • 385-468-6700
                                          msd.utah.gov
                         MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                           REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)


19.69.010      Definitions.
       Whenever used in this chapter:
       "Council" means the Magna Council.
       "Council Chair" means the chairperson of the Magna Council, or appointed designee.
       "Director" means the Director of Planning and Development Services, or appointed agent
designated by the director.
       " Magna" means Magna, a Municipal Corporation under State Law.
       "MSD" means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, its successor, and/or any
agents contracted to provide municipal-type services for and to Magna.
       "Magna Ordinance" means the zoning ordinance for Magna.
       "Planning and Development Services" means the Planning and Development Office, or
MSD-contracted entity providing such services.
       "Planning Commission" means the Magna Planning Commission.
       "Planning Director" means the Planning and Development Services Director.
       "Staff' means employees provided by the MSD to provide land use planning and
development services to Magna.

19.69.020 Purpose.
    The purpose of the Planned Community (P-C) Zone is to provide a regulatory tool which allows
large properties in Magna to be developed in accordance with a specific plan designed to achieve
the following purposes:

       1.    To promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare;
       2.    To implement the objectives and policies of the general plan;
       3.    To safeguard and enhance environmental amenities and the quality of development;
       4.    To attain the physical, social, and economic advantages resulting from
             comprehensive and orderly planned use of land resources;
       5.    To lessen congestion and assure convenience of access;
       6.    To secure safety from fire, flood, and other dangers;
       7.    To provide for adequate light, air, sunlight, and open space;
       8.    To promote and encourage conservation of scarce resources;
       9.    To prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of population;
       10.   To facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community with a
             desirable living and working environment with unique identity and character;
       11.   To attain a desirable balance of residential and employment opportunities;
       12.   To promote a pedestrian friendly environment that encourages transit and bicycle use;
       13.   To expedite the provision of adequate and essential public services;
       14.   To facilitate development within Magna in accordance with the general plan by promoting
             high quality, innovative and creative development that includes a mixture of uses, heights
             and setbacks, varying densities and lot sizes and sufficient diversity of housing types to
             meet the full life cycle of housing needs of Magna residents, a harmonious variety of
             industrial and commercial uses, a high level of amenities, and preservation of open space;
       15.   To promote more economical and efficient use of the land; and,
       16.   To provide a process for initiation, review, and regulation of large-scale comprehensively
             planned communities that affords the maximum flexibility to the developer within the
             context of an overall development program and specific, phased development plans
             coordinated with the provision of necessary public services and facilities.



                                                  1
                          MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                            REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

    This chapter establishes an approval and entitlement process to promote inventive and efficient land
use patterns that would otherwise be difficult under typical zoning ordinances. Districts within a P-C
Zone may include neighborhoods, villages, town centers, business, research or educational campuses,
and open space with convenient pedestrian access among residential, commercial, office, retail, and
recreational areas. Individual structures within those districts may contain mixed uses. Permitted
densities and intensity of land use in villages and town centers may be higher than those permitted in
neighborhoods.

19.69.030        Land use districts.
     Each P-C Zone shall establish land uses and development patterns, densities, and standards unique
to that zone. Upon approval, through the process set forth in this chapter, the established land uses, and
development patterns and densities shall be established pursuant to the P-C Zone Plan and one or more
development agreements. The P-C Zone may consist of any number or combination of the following
land use districts that shall be identified in the Community Structure Plan as provided in this chapter.
Specific land uses proposed in the P-C Zone may only be established in conformance with provisions of
this chapter.


        Neighborhood: This category is designed for comparatively low-density mixed-use development
        that emphasizes residential (single and multi-family) use, but also includes office, commercial,
        industrial, public/semi-public, and recreation/open space uses. Neighborhood residential
        densities are anticipated to range between 4 and 8 units per gross acre.

        Village: This category is designed for medium density mixed use development that includes
        residential (single and multi-family), office, commercial, industrial, public/semipublic, and
        recreation/open space uses, without a predetermined emphasis on any single use. Village
        residential densities are anticipated to range between 9 and 20 units per gross acre.

        Town center: This category is designed for high-density mixed-use development that emphasizes
        office, commercial and recreational uses, but also includes residential (single and multi-family),
        public/semi­ public, industrial and open space uses. Town center residential densities may
        exceed 20 units per gross acre.

        Business, Research, or Educational Campus: This category is designed to accommodate a
        campus dedicated to a mixture of business uses: office, commercial, industrial, recreational, and
        public/semi­ public uses; or to an educational institution, including classrooms, laboratories,
        offices, housing, educational facilities of all types and other related uses.

        Open Space: Landscaped area, natural area or farmland that is established to provide and
        preserve outdoor recreational, agricultural, or other similar uses. In addition to the open
        space district, areas of open space may also be provided within the other land use districts
        as well.

19.69.040      P-C zone area - minimum requirements.
       Each P-C Zone shall contain a minimum of 20075 acres located in Magna as depicted on
the Magna Land Use Plan on file with Planning and Development Services. If the P-C Zone contains
multiple owners, the owners may, if necessary, to reach the 200-75 acre threshold, or if such owners
otherwise desire, combine their properties for planning and development purposes.



                                                    2
                          MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                            REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

 19.69.050      Permitted uses.
A.     The following uses may be conducted in all areas within a P-C Zone of more than 400200
acres:

        •     Residential uses of all types on a range of lot sizes including single family detached;
              single family attached; multifamily residential; town homes; loft apartments;
              residential units above ground floor retail, commercial, or office uses; and
              condominiums;
        •     Retail, service, office, hotel, restaurant, entertainment, and all other commercial uses of
              any type;
        •     Mix of permitted uses (including office/commercial, office/residential,
              retail/residential) within individual structures;
        •     Home-based businesses following the provisions of Chapter 19.85 of this Title;
        •     Health-care facilities;
        •     Public facilities, such as schools, libraries, and civic buildings;
        •     Common areas, such as plazas, playgrounds, and trails
        •     Churches;
        •     Day-care facilities;
        •     Open space, including landscaped areas and areas in natural vegetation, golf courses,
              parks, recreational areas;
        •     Industrial and manufacturing uses; and
        •     Other accessory uses which are ancillary to, and designed to serve, any of the
              foregoing uses.

B.      The following uses may be conducted in all areas within a P-C Zone containing between
200at least 75 and lessfewer than 400200 acres:

        •     Residential uses of all types on a range of lot sizes including: single family detached;
              single family attached; multifamily residential; town homes; loft apartments;
              residential units above ground floor retail, commercial, or office uses; and
              condominiums;
        •     Retail, service, office, hotel, restaurant, entertainment, and all other commercial uses of
              any type;
        •     Mix of permitted uses (including office/commercial, office/residential,
              retail/residential) within individual structures;
        •     Home-based businesses following the provisions of Chapter 19.85 of this Title;
        •     Health-care facilities;
        •     Public facilities, such as schools, libraries, and civic buildings;
        •     Common areas, such as plazas, playgrounds, and trails
        •     Churches;
        •     Day-care facilities;
        •     Open space, including landscaped areas and areas in natural vegetation, golf courses,
              parks, recreational areas; and
        •     Other accessory uses which are ancillary to, and designed to serve, any of the
              foregoing uses.

 19.69.060 Conditional uses.
        1. The approved 1.      If a proposed P-C Zone Plan or Community Structure Plan may include
            provisions forincludes specific land uses identified as conditional uses within a given


                                                  3
                            MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                              REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

              district, which may include uses listed under section
19.69.030 or additional uses. The addition ofthose conditional uses in the approved P-C Zone Plan shall
require the approval ofmust be expressly approved by the Metro Township Council, which approval may
be established by in a development agreement. Conditional uses, if with the applicant(s). The Metro
Township Council’s approval of conditional uses in a development agreement does not establish any, are
subject to entitlement for approval of a conditional use and is an additional requirement for approval of a
P-C Zone Plan including any conditional use(s). All conditional uses in any P-C Zone require separate
review and approval as set forth in Chapter 19.84 of this Title. Design standards for conditional uses shall
be included with the applicable Project Specific Standards.

2.      Within a P-C Zone Plan or Community Structure Plan of properties containing 200at least 75
acres, but lessfewer than 400200 acres, industrial and manufacturing uses may be allowed as conditional
uses, subject to planning commission and council approval.

 19.69.070 Planning and approval process for P-C zone.
     Development within the P-C Zone will require the following plans to be prepared and submitted for
 approval in accordance with this chapter: P-C Zone Plan, CSP, and Project Plans and/or subdivision and
 condominium plat approval as applicable. The planning and approval process and approving bodies are
 summarized in the following table:



       APPROVAL      SCALE                         WHAT IS DESCRIBED IN
                (AREA                              PLAN                                   APPROVAL
         STEP
                COVERED BY                                                                LEVEL
                  APPLICATION)
     P-C Zone and Total land area to be          Land area to be rezoned with land       Planning
     Plan         rezoned P-C.                   use table outlining proposed            Commission and
                                                 permitted and conditional uses (if      Council
                                                 applicable), number of residential
                                                 units, and square feet of
                                                 nonresidential development.
     Community      Any portion of         Major systems for the larger                  Staff, Planning
     Structure Plan project that has a     development such as major                     Commission and
                    common street          roadways, infrastructure, open space          Council
                    system, open space     networks, general location of
                    system or other        villages, towns, neighborhoods and
                    infrastructure system. business and research parkways.
     Project            Multiple phases of       Show major development parcel           Planning Commission
     Plan/Subdivisi     development. May,        locations, open space system, and
     on Plat            but is not required to   major infrastructure associated with
                        include, master          roadways. Final plats indicate lot
                        subdivision approval     layouts and development
                        followed by phased       regulations.
                        subdivision plats.
     Site               Individual sites         Final site development requirements. Staff
     Plan               within the
     Approv             development.


                                                     4
                          MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                            REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

   al




19.69.080      P-C zone plan.
    At the time of application for rezoning, a P-C Zone Plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for review and recommendation to the Council. Following recommendation by the Planning
Commission, a P-C Zone Plan shall be submitted for review and approval by the Council. A proposed
development agreement shall be submitted for approval by the Council in connection with each P-C Zone
Plan. The approved P-C Zone Plan and development agreement shall implement and govern
development within the applicable P-C Zone but may be amended through standard rezoning procedures
or through procedures outlined in the development agreement and shall contain the following
information:

        1.    Name of planned community;
        2.    Names, addresses, and phone numbers of applicant and property owners;
        3.    P-C Zone parcel location, legal/boundary description, acreage, scale, and north arrow;
        4.    A land use table showing the proposed permitted and conditional uses (if applicable),
              number of dwelling units, height limits, and the total acreage of open space in the P-C
              Zone and areas (in square footage or acreage) of the various non-residential land uses
              proposed in the P-C Zone;
        5     General descriptions and locations of existing and proposed major infrastructure, including
              water, sanitary sewer, storm drainage, parks/open space/trails, and street improvements,
              together with service adequacy analyses for each of these (including the necessity of
              system improvements within or adjacent to the subject property, if applicable) to justify
              the dwelling units, open space, and non-­ residential square footage proposed in the land
              use table mentioned above;
        6     Existing waterways, major utilities, easements and flood boundary;
        7     Adjacent parcels, owners, and uses;
        8     Topography and significant features on or adjacent to the property; and
        9     Other information deemed necessary by the Director.

    Subject to conditions or limitations agreed to in the development agreement, the development
agreement based on the approved P-C Zone Plan shall confer a vested right to proceed with the
development process established in this chapter for the property included within the applicable P-C Zone
Plan, including the number of dwelling units and the square footage of nonresidential uses reflected in
the approved P-C Zone Plan. Upon approval, the P-C Zone Plan shall constitute an amendment to the
Magna general plan for the area covered by the P-C Zone Plan.

19.69.090 Community structure plan (CSP).
    Following approval of the P-C Zone Plan, a Community Structure Plan (CSP), together with a
development agreement that codifies that plan, shall be submitted to the Director for review and approval
by the planning commission. The CSP shall contain a contiguous area within the P-C Zone that includes
one or more of the following: neighborhoods, villages, business and research parks, and/or town centers.
A CSP shall show the following:

        1.    Name of planned community;
        2.    Names, addresses, and phone numbers of applicant and property owners;
        3.    CSP location, legal/boundary description, acreage, scale, and north arrow;


                                                   5
                           MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                             REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

        4.  Proposed land use districts (neighborhoods, villages, business and research parks, and/or
            town centers) boundaries, and acreage; a table showing the number of dwelling units, open
            space acreage, and acreage of the various non-residential land uses;
        5.  A master circulation system plan, including a street network, pedestrian circulation,
            bicycle and trail system plans (including possible equestrian trails), identification of street
            alignments and right­ of-way widths, illustrative cross sections which accommodate and
            specify vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle use in the right-of-way. Pedestrian and bicycle
            trail systems shall connect the land use districts, schools and open space areas and provide
            linkages to other trail systems in existing or future areas of the P-C Zone and adjacent
            facilities within the adjacent municipal jurisdictions of Salt Lake County;
        6.  Existing and proposed waterways and water bodies, major utilities and easements, flood
            boundary, and flood control facilities;
        7.  Adjacent parcels, their owners, and their uses;
        8.  Topography and significant features on or adjacent to the property;
        9.  Documentation of existing and proposed secondary water rights, shares, and usage, if any;
        10. Open space plan providing general description and locations of major open space;
        11. Standards that govern the design and maintenance of major public infrastructure
            improvements (including without limitation sidewalks, street lighting, paving, street
            furniture, etc.) and general building placement, massing, and design criteria (CSP Design
            Standards); and
        12. Other information deemed necessary by the Director.

    The Planning Commission shall have the discretion to disapprove a CSP only on the basis of: (1)
the failure of the proposed CSP to include all of the elements required in this section; (2) the failure of
the proposed master circulation system identified in the CSP within and surrounding the P-C Zone to
adequately serve the communities within the P-C Zone; (3) the failure of the proposed major
infrastructure identified in the CSP within and surrounding the P-C Zone to provide adequate service to
the communities within the P-C Zone; or (4) the inclusion of uses in the CSP not permitted or
conditionally permitted under this Chapter. In approving a CSP, the planning commission may impose
reasonable conditions of approval to mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts in accordance
with Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinance Subsection 19.84.060(C)-(D).

19.69.100 Project plan/subdivision plat.
    Upon approval of a CSP, a Project Plan shall be submitted for review, together with a development
agreement that outlines Project Specific Standards establishing in substantial detail the character and
nature of the design of public and private improvements within the area covered by the applicable Project
Plan (Project Specific Standards) for the applicable portion of the P-C Zone covered by the Project Plan.
The purpose of the Project Plan is to allow for the creation and approval of a fully integrated development
plan for a specifically identified portion of the applicable P-C Zone. A Project Plan may include vertical
and horizontal mixtures of uses on one or more proposed lots, parcels or units located within the
boundaries of the proposed Project Plan. Therefore, the Project Plan may identify a combination of
proposed subdivisions, condominium projects, and/or site plans, one or more of which may be submitted
concurrently for review and approval with the Project Plan. The Project Plan, and each Subdivision Plat
or Condominium Project submitted in connection therewith or in furtherance thereof, shall be reviewed
and approved by the County staff prior to submittal of the Project Plan and associated development
agreement to the Planning Commission for approval. Subdivision Plats (preliminary and final) shall be
submitted and approved pursuant to the process and in accordance with the requirements set forth in Title
18, "Subdivisions," of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances, and other applicable sections of
the code. Application and approval of a preliminary or final subdivision plat may occur before
submission of a Project Plan provided Project Specific Standards are submitted and approved


                                                    6
                          MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                            REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

contemporaneously with such subdivision plat application and approvals; and provided, further, that the
Project Specific Standards and subdivision plat will ultimately be incorporated into an approved Project
Plan and associated development agreement. The preliminary and final plats shall conform to the
applicable CSP Standards as well as all applicable Project Specific Standards, including any
supplemental Project Specific Standards proposed and approved in connection with the applicable final
plat.

19.69.110        Site plan review.
    Site plans may be reviewed concurrently with a Project Plan or Subdivision Plat. Any proposed
commercial, office, industrial, multi-family residential, open space, parks, or institutional developments
and alterations to existing developments shall be located on legal lots of record created by metes and
bounds conveyance with the approval of the Staff or pursuant to subdivision or condominium plats and
shall meet the site plan review requirements outlined in chapter 19.02.080 of this Title. All Magna
Ordinances and requirements shall be met in preparing site plan applications and in designing and
constructing the development. Where applicable, building permits may not be obtained nor shall any site
work be performed prior to site plan approval as set forth in section
19.02.130 of this Title.

19.69.120       Development standards.

(A) Open Space and Common Areas.

        Open Space includes parks, trails, natural area, or farmland, which is established to provide and
        preserve recreational, agricultural, or other similar uses in the P-C Zone as approved by the
        Planning Commission. Common areas include landscaped areas (including landscaping around
        schools, colleges, and other civic buildings), athletic fields, gathering places such as plazas,
        commons, exterior courtyards, public recreational facilities, landscaped medians or park strips
        that exceed Magna standards, but do not include areas contained within a typical public street
        cross section. The applicable CSP Standards and Project Specific Standards shall govern the use
        and character of the open spaces and common areas. Each P-C Zone shall contain a minimum of
        20 percent of the gross acreage in a combination of common areas and open space, at least half
        of which (10% of the gross acreage) shall be open space. These areas shall be designated in the
        applicable Project Plan and separately identified on any applicable final plat of subdivision or
        site plan. Open Space recorded as a lot or lots in subdivisions or as common area in condominium
        plats and shall be maintained with open space or conservation easements or such other
        arrangement as is approved by the Planning Commission in connection with Project Plan or
        subdivision or condominium approval.


(B) Yard requirements.
           Yard requirements shall be determined and governed by the applicable Project Specific
       Standards established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter. The following minimum
       requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

        1.    Minimum yard areas shall be measured from the front, side and rear lines of lots,
              condominium private ownership yard areas (where building footprint is not recorded) or
              from accesses, driveways, or streets (where no property lines or private ownership yard
              areas exist).
        2.    Buildings may not be located within a public right of way or utility easement.



                                                   7
                         MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                           REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

(C) Fencing, screening, clear vision.
           Fencing, screening and clear vision requirements shall be determined and governed by the
       applicable Project Specific Standards established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter.
       The following requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

       l. All mechanical equipment, antennas, loading and utility areas, and trash receptacles shall be
              screened from view with architectural features or walls consistent with materials used in
              the associated buildings as more specifically set forth in the applicable Project Specific
              Standards.
       2. Fences and landscape materials, except for mature trees which are pruned at least 7 feet above
              the ground, shall not exceed 2 feet in height within a 10 foot triangular area formed by the
              edge of a driveway and the street right-of-way line or within a 30 foot triangular area
              formed by the right-of­ way lines of intersecting streets.

(D) Architectural standards.
           Architectural requirements shall be determined and governed by the Project Specific
       Standards established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter. The following architectural
       standards and requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

       1.    Architectural design of buildings and building materials shall be established in the
             Project Specific Standards.
       2.    All building materials shall be high quality, durable, and low maintenance.
       3.    The applicable Project Specific Standards shall address exterior relief of buildings,
             design of all sides of buildings, and architectural compatibility of buildings.
(E) Landscaping requirements.
           Landscaping requirements shall be determined and governed by the applicable Project
       Specific Standards established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter. The following
       landscaping requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

       1.    The applicable Project Specific Standards shall address the landscaping and proper
             maintenance of required front, side, and rear yards of lots and private ownership areas in
             the P-C Zone.
       2.    All areas of lots and parcels in the P-C Zone not designated for open space, parking,
             buildings, or other hard surfacing shall be landscaped and properly maintained. Designated
             open space shall remain in a natural condition, cultivated or landscaped, and properly
             maintained in accordance with the Project Specific Standards.
       3.    All park strips and public right-of-way areas in the P-C Zone shall be landscaped and
             properly irrigated and maintained by the applicable property owners in the P-C Zone unless
             otherwise approved by the council. All park strip areas shall be installed by the developer
             and properly maintained by the applicable owners in the P-C Zone. A plan for funding of
             on-going maintenance of street landscaping by the property owners shall be presented for
             approval by Staff at the time of site plan approval.

(F) Lighting.
           Lighting requirements shall be determined and governed by the Project Specific Standards
       established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter.

(G) Other requirements.
           The following requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.



                                                   8
                           MAGNA METRO CODE CHAPTER 19.69
                             REDLINE CHANGES (Feb. 4, 2021)

        1.    All developments shall be graded according to Magna's engineering and building
              requirements to provide adequate drainage. Buildings shall be equipped with facilities for
              the discharge of all roof drainage onto the subject lot or parcel.
        2.    The applicable owners shall properly maintain all private areas of individual lots or parcels.
        3.    The specific requirements of this Section 110 shall be governed by the Project Specific
              Standards established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter and may be modified
              as the Council deems appropriate pursuant to the terms of the applicable Project
              development agreement.
        4.    All common area improvements including buildings, open space, recreational
              facilities, roads, fences, utilities, landscaping, walkways, street lights and signs not
              specifically dedicated to Magna or accepted for ownership or maintenance by Magna
              shall be perpetually maintained by the applicable owners or their agents through a
              special taxing district, owners' association with power to assess and collect fees for
              maintenance or other assessment and maintenance mechanisms acceptable to the
              council. Improvements for which Magna agrees to accept maintenance responsibility
              shall be reviewed by the applicable Magna service provider for compliance with
              adopted standards prior to approval.

19.69.130       Development agreement.
    In conjunction with the approval of a P-C Zone Plan, CSP, and Project Plan, the developer and
Magna shall enter into one or more development agreements reflecting all conditions of approval and
terms of the applicable P-C Zone Plan, CSP, and Project Plan, and such other matters as Magna and the
developer may agree. The council chair signs all development agreements. The council need only
approve the development agreement associated with the P-C Zone Plan. Development Agreements
entered into with respect to a CSP or Project Plan do not require approval of the council unless the
approved CSP or Project Plan, together with the approved CSP Design Standards or Project Specific
Standards, are inconsistent with the conditions and requirements set forth in this title. Without regard to
future amendments, additions or changes to the Magna Ordinance, Magna may agree, in such
Development Agreements, that the developer may advance development applications for projects within
the applicable P-C Zone pursuant to the planning and approval processes set forth in this chapter, or
such other process as is specifically agreed upon pursuant to a development agreement approved by
the council. Such development agreements may further identify a process for approving
amendments to an approved P-C Zone Plan, CSP, Project Plan or Subdivision Plat, which shall be
approved by the council to the extent such a process differs from Magna ordinance. Any entitlement
granted to the developer under the terms of a Development Agreement shall be subject to
amendments, changes, or additions to this chapter if the council finds that failure to so amend,
change, or add to the chapter would constitute a compelling countervailing public interest.




                                                    9
 ORDINANCE NO.: __________________                                               DATE:_____________


                                   MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP


      AN ORDINANCE MODIFYING CHAPTER 19.69 – PLANNED COMMUNITY (P-C)
         ZONE FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES

                                              RECITALS

        WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) adopted Ordinance No. 18-01-02 on
January 9, 2018, creating Chapter 19.69 - Planned Community (P-C) zone for the Magna Metro Township
Code of Ordinances; and

       WHEREAS, Chapter 19.69 presently restricts the use of the P-C zone to master-planned
developments of no fewer than 200 acres; and

        WHEREAS, Magna is actively updating and revising its ordinances, including zoning, to better
account for the health, welfare, and benefits to its residents; and

        WHEREAS, Magna has determined that the P-C zone may be suitable for planned communities of
a smaller scale while maintaining the benefits to the community of planned development.

      NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AS FOLLOWS:


1. 19.69.040 shall be amended to read:

   19.69.040 – P-C zone area – minimum requirements.

   Each P-C Zone shall contain a minimum of 75 acres located in Magna as depicted on the Magna Land
   Use Plan on file with Planning and Development Services. If the P-C Zone contains multiple owners,
   the owners may, if necessary, to reach the 75 acre threshold, or if such owners otherwise desire,
   combine their properties for planning and development purposes.



2. 19.69.50 shall be amended to read:

   19.69.50 – Permitted uses.

            A.     The following uses may be conducted in all areas within a P-C Zone of more than 200
            acres:

                i. Residential uses of all types on a range of lot sizes including: single family detached;
                   single family attached; multifamily residential; town homes; loft apartments;

                                                    1
              residential units above ground floor retail, commercial, or office uses; and
              condominiums;

        ii. Retail, service, office, hotel, restaurant, entertainment, and all other commercial uses
            of any type; Mix of permitted uses (including office/commercial, office/residential,
            retail/residential) within individual structures;

       iii. Home-based businesses following the provisions of Chapter 19.85 of this Title;

       iv. Health-care facilities;

        v. Public facilities, such as schools, libraries, and civic buildings; Common areas, such
           as plazas, playgrounds, and trails Churches;

       vi. Day-care facilities;

       vii. Open space, including landscaped areas and areas in natural vegetation, golf courses,
            parks,

      viii. recreational areas;

       ix. Industrial and manufacturing uses; and

        x. Other accessory uses which are ancillary to, and designed to serve, any of the
           foregoing uses.

B.     The following uses may be conducted in all areas within a P-C Zone containing at least
75 and fewer than 200 acres:

         i.    Residential uses of all types on a range of lot sizes including: single family detached;
               single family attached; multifamily residential; town homes; loft apartments;
               residential units above ground floor retail, commercial, or office uses; and
               condominiums;

       xi. Retail, service, office, hotel, restaurant, entertainment, and all other commercial uses
           of any type; Mix of permitted uses (including office/commercial, office/residential,
           retail/residential) within individual structures;

       xii. Home-based businesses following the provisions of Chapter 19.85 of this Title;

      xiii. Health-care facilities;

b. Public facilities, such as schools, libraries, and civic buildings; Common areas, such as plazas,
   playgrounds, and trails Churches;

c. Day-care facilities;

d. Open space, including landscaped areas and areas in natural vegetation, golf courses, parks,

e. recreational areas; and

                                              2
       f.   Other accessory uses which are ancillary to, and designed to serve, any of the foregoing uses.



3. 19.69.60 shall be amended to read:

   19.69.60 - Conditional uses.

   1.     If a proposed P-C Zone Plan includes specific land uses identified as conditional uses within a
   given district, those conditional uses in the P-C Zone Plan must be expressly approved by the Metro
   Township Council in a development agreement with the applicant(s). The Metro Township Council’s
   approval of conditional uses in a development agreement does not establish any entitlement for
   approval of a conditional use and is an additional requirement for approval of a P-C Zone Plan
   including any conditional use(s). All conditional uses in any P-C Zone require separate review and
   approval as set forth in Chapter 19.84 of this Title. Design standards for conditional uses shall be
   included with the applicable Project Specific Standards.

   2.    Within a P-C Zone Plan or Community Structure Plan of properties containing at least 75 acres,
   but fewer than 200 acres, industrial and manufacturing uses may be allowed as conditional uses,
   subject to planning commission and council approval.



4. This ordinance will become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-
   711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.


                                         [signatures on following page]




                                                    3
APPROVED and ADOPTED this _______ day of _______________, 2021.

                                                MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                By: ________________________________
                                                    Dan Peay, Mayor


ATTEST                                           APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________                  __________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                  METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY


VOTING

Council Member Steve Prokopis voting    _____
Council Member Brint Peel voting        _____
Mayor Dan Peay voting                   _____
Council Member Trish Hull voting        _____
Council Member Audrey Pierce voting     _____




 (Complete as Applicable)

 Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: _____________________

 Date of publication:____________________________________________

 Effective date of ordinance:______________________________________




                                           4
                                           SUMMARY OF

               [TSNAME] METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. ________________



         On the _____ day of __________________, 2021, the Magna Metro Township Council adopted

Ordinance No. _________________, revising Chapter 19.69 of the Magna Metro Township Code to modify

the acreage requirements for use of the P-C zone and other changes conforming to state law.


                                                        MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                        By: ________________________________
                                                           Dan Peay, Mayor



ATTEST                                                   APPROVED AS TO FORM:

_______________________________
                                                         ___________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
                                                         METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING

Council Member Steve Prokopis voting            _____
Council Member Brint Peel voting                _____
Mayor Dan Peay voting                           _____
Council Member Trish Hull voting                _____
Council Member Audrey Pierce voting             _____

A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______________ is available in the office of the Magna Metro
Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
4818-9117-4105, v. 4




                                                   5
