                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                             https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/




                             Magna Planning Commission
                                           Public Meeting Agenda

                         Thursday, April 8, 2021 6:30 P.M.
Pursuant to HB 5002 as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(4), Dan Cripps has determined in his capacity as
Chair of the Magna Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without
an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which the Chair has
determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location.
To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please use the below
webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                           BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the March 11, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
       (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (As Needed)


April 8, 2021                                       Page 1 of 2                                 AGENDA – MAGNA
                                LAND USE APPLICATION(S)

30804- (CUP2020-000038) - (Continued from March 11, 2021 Meeting) - Truong Properties is
requesting approval of a Shared Parking Schedule and a Modification in the Size of the Retail and
Restaurant Uses on the Conditional Use Project for a mixed use of apartments and retail. Acreage:
8.30 acres. Location: 8291-8315 West 3595 South. Zone: C-2 & R-M (Commercial and
Residential). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

SUB2020-000048 (31200)- Kennecott Utah Copper and Steve Layton are requesting Final
Approval of the proposed 4-lot 201 Logistics Center Preliminary Subdivision Plat. Acreage:
Approximately 89.52 acres. Location: 7600 West U201 Highway. Zone: M-1/zc (Manufacturing,
Light Industrial). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on these applications prior
to acting on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three
minutes per person.

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)

REZ2021-000256 - (Continued from March 11, 2021 Meeting) - Ivory Homes is requesting a
Rezone from the A-20 (Agricultural Zone) to the P-C (Planned Community) Zone. Acreage: 78.49
acres. Location: 8230 West 4100 South. Planner: Travis Hair (Motion/Voting)

REZ2021-000262- The Unified Fire Department (Rep. Steve Simmons) is requesting a Rezone
from R-2-6.5 (Residential) to C-2 (Commercial) Zone. Acreage: Approx. 0.57 acres. Location:
8609 West Magna Main Street. Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

REZ2021-000263- Gough Homes (Tim Gough) is requesting a Rezone from A-1/zc (Agricultural
w/ zoning conditions) to R-1-6 (Single-Family Residential) Zone. Acreage: Approx.2.74 acres.
Location: 7630 West 2820 South. Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

OAM2021-000270 – The Magna Planning Commission will consider a recommendation to the
Magna Council regarding amendments to Chapter 15.14 of the Magna Municipal Code governing
special development standards in the Magna Overpressure Area. The amendments intend to clarify
the boundaries of the area, outline conditions required for building and developing within the
Overpressure Area and moves this section of code to Chapter 16.02. Planner: Travis Hair
(Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed public hearing items after taking comments
from the public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the
planning commission’s rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public
comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

                                           ADJOURN




April 8, 2021                               Page 2 of 2                           AGENDA – MAGNA
                Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



April 8, 2021                                                         AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                       WRITTEN DETERMINATION – NO ANCHOR LOCATION

                       The Magna Planning Commission is scheduled to hold a business meeting on April 8,
8952 West Magna Main   2021, beginning at 6:30 pm. Immediately following the business meeting, the
       Street
                       Commission will hold a public meeting and hearing. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §
  Magna, Utah 84044
                       52-4-207(4), I, Dan Cripps, have determined in my capacity as the Chair of the Magna
                       Planning Commission to hold the business meeting and the public meeting without
                       an anchor location due to COVID19, which presents a substantial risk to the health
                       and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location. This written
                       determination shall expire 30 days from today.

                                               Dated this _____ day of _________, 2021.


                                               By________________________________
                                               Dan Cripps
                                               Chair, Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
To:     Magna Planning Commission
From: Diana Martinez, Planner
Date: March 31, 2021
Re:     30804- Truong Properties application


Commissioners,
Planning Staff is asking that this application be continued indefinitely.
No new information has been submitted for this application, and therefore, no progress has
been made in order to bring this back to the Planning Commission for consideration.
Thank you,
Diana




               2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114 • 385-468-6700
                                           msd.utah.gov
                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        msd.utah.gov




                                    Case #SUB2020-000048 (31200)


               Subdivision Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Planning Commission
Meeting Date: April 8, 2021
Parcel ID: 14-21-300-002-0000; 14-21-300-006-0000; 14-21-300-007-0000; 14-21-300-019-000; 14-21-300-021-
0000; 14-21-300-022-0000; 14-21-300-023-0000; 14-21-370-003-0000; 14-21-426-001-0000
Current Zone: M-1/zc (zoning conditions prohibit some uses)
Property Address: Approximately - 7600 West U201 Highway Frontage
Request: 4-Lot 201 Logistics Center Final Subdivision Plat Approval
Applicant Name: Rio Tinto Kennecott Utah Copper (Rep- Steve Layton)

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions




                                        PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Rio Tinto Kennecott Utah Copper (Rep Steve Layton), is requesting final subdivision plat approval
for the proposed 201 Logistics Center Subdivision. The proposed subdivision plat includes a total of 4-lots on
approximately 89.52 acres.

The applicant came to the Planning Commission for preliminary approval of the proposed subdivision on January
14, 2021. The applicant has submitted the final plat for Planning Commission consideration and approval.

This approval will also include the roadway dedication of 7600 West to Magna.



                           SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The subject property is located between 8000 West and 7600 West (proposed road), and between Highway
U201 and the new Beagley Road which follows the Ritter Canal.
        Request: Subdivision                                  File #: SUB2020-000048 (31200)

This property was recently rezoned to M-1/zc, which allows for light industrial uses. There are no residential
uses in the immediate area, and the proposed subdivision is consistent with warehouse/office uses that follow
the U201 Highway corridor.



                                      NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent out to property owners within 300’ of this property. No response has been received as of
the writing of this report.



                         ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Issues of concern to discuss for final approval:

            1. At the January 14, 2021 meeting, the Planning Commission expressed concern regarding the
               Traffic Impact Study (TIS) for this application and the route that the trucks and vans will be
               traveling.
                   • County Engineering will be at the Planning Commission meeting on April 8, 2021, to
                        answer questions about the TIS and the flow of trucks and vans to and from the site.
            2. County Flood Control has asked that fencing along the Kersey Creek not be required with this
               application or any subsequential conditional use applications.
                   • MSD Planning Staff believes there is no hazard to life, and no hazard to the safety of the
                        public. Therefore, the Planning Commission can waive the requirements of Ordinance
                        18.24.140.
                   • Please see attached letter from County Flood Control.
            3. Steps to follow if Final Subdivision approval is granted by the Planning Commission:
                   • Applicant to post all bonds and pay all final fees.
                   • Applicant to comply with all requirements of approval.
                   • Submit digital plat copy for review by surveyor’s office and Magna attorney.
                   • Print plat to mylar once review is complete and authorized by the MSD Planner.
                   • Collect signatures from Health Department, Fire Department, and utility companies,
                        only.
                   • Submit final plat to MSD Planner for all other signatures.
                   • When all signatures have been obtained, the MSD Planner will make arrangements for
                        plat recordation.


                                       PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
18.04.250 - Subdivision.
"Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two or more lots,
parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development. Subdivision does not include a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes, provided that such agricultural land shall be subject to the requirements of the
subdivision ordinance upon the conversion of the land from agricultural use to residential, commercial or
manufacturing use. Further, this definition shall not apply to the sale or conveyance of any parcel of land which
may be shown as one of the lots of a subdivision of which a plat has theretofore been recorded in the office of

Subdivision Summary                                                                                        Page 2 of 4
        Request: Subdivision                                File #: SUB2020-000048 (31200)

the county recorder. The word "subdivide" and any derivative thereof shall have reference to the term
subdivision as defined in this section.

18.08.010 - Procedure generally.
The planning commission shall be the land use authority for subdivisions. In order to assure that each
subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director or director's designee shall administer
formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application shall not be deemed complete until
the full application, fees and all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and
submission of preliminary plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.
Each process shall include the following components:
         A. An application procedure, which shall include:
                  1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's designee to
                  clearly indicate the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other
                  pertinent information;
                  2. Submission of supplementary materials, including a legal description, property plat, the
                  required number of plans/preliminary plats, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;
                  3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.
         B. A review procedure, which shall include:
                  1. An on-site review by the director or director's designee as provided by Utah Code 17-27a-303;
                  2. Review of the submitted site plan/preliminary plat for compliance with county land use
                  ordinances;
                  3. Reference of the application and site plan/preliminary plat to any other government agency
                  and/or affected entity which the director or director's designee deems necessary to protect the
                  health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project's compliance with all
                  applicable ordinances and codes;
                  4. The processing of any exception requests that have been made in conjunction with the
                  subdivision application.
         C. A preliminary plat approval procedure, which shall include:
                  1. Confirmation that all necessary agencies have responded to the requests for
                  recommendation with a recommendation of approval or approval with conditions;
                  2. Integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and affected
                  entities involved above into the preliminary plat;
                  3. Receipt of a recommendation from the planning staff;
                  4. Approval of the preliminary plat as outlined in Section 18.12.030, and issuing a preliminary
                  plat approval letter.
         D. A final plat approval procedure, which shall include:
                  1. An engineering review to ensure that the final plat complies with all conditions of approval
                  of the preliminary plat and to ensure that the final plat complies with the design standards,
                  codes, and ordinances and with minimum engineering/surveying requirements.
                  2. A check of appropriate background information, such as: lot access, property title, record of
                  survey, field boundary verification, etc.;
                  3. The collection of the necessary approval signatures (planning commission representative,
                  director or director's designee, health department, district attorney, county mayor or their
                  designees) on the final plat;
                  4. Payment of final fees and bond;
                  5. Recordation of the plat.




Subdivision Summary                                                                                     Page 3 of 4
        Request: Subdivision                                File #: SUB2020-000048 (31200)




                               PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning Commission grant Final Approval for the
proposed 4-lot 201 Logistics Center Final Subdivision Plat and the Roadway Dedication of 7600 West, subject to
the following conditions:
    1. That the applicant shall comply with all MSD and Outside Agency Reviewer requirements and
         recommendations.
    2. That all bonds and final fees be posted and paid, prior to the subdivision plat being recorded with the
         Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.
    3. That the applicant records, and reference easements as noted on the final plat as required by the
         Agency Reviewers.
    4. That the applicant submits digital copies of the completed final subdivision plat, which shall include the
         roadway dedication for 7600 West, for final review prior to printing the final plat to mylar.
    5. That all roadway improvements, and/or dedications, private or public, must comply with Salt Lake
         County standards.
    6. Geographic Information Systems (GIS) data is due prior to final approval. After drawings are approved
         please submit GIS data for review and approval (Section. 17.20.150.A.2 & 17.20.540.A.2). Contact
         Jefferson Thomson at jethomson@slco.org or 385-468-6614 regarding data type and format.
    7. That the applicant signs an Urban Hydrology Agreement and return to County Engineering.
    8. That the applicant submits 2 copies 24”x36” of plan drawings with the Engineer’s stamp and electronic
         copy.
    9. That the applicant sign/notarize, record and submit a copy of the recorded Geological Hazards
         Disclosure and Acknowledgement Form prior to final approval of the Conditional Use application
         #CUP2020-000064.
    10. That no building permit applications can be applied for until the Conditional Use (CUP2020-000064) for
         lot 1 of the subdivision, has been finalized and all conditions of approval have been met.




Subdivision Summary                                                                                     Page 4 of 4
                               N


    U201 Highway
8                  7
0                  6
0     Lot#1        0   Lots
0                  0   2,3,4
                   W
W
March 19, 2021   3/24/21
                    Δ


    Δ
            Δ




    Δ
Δ       Δ




                Δ
                    Δ

                Δ




    Δ
Δ




        Δ




            Δ


                        Δ




                            Δ
Jenny Wilson
Mayor                        March 2, 2021

Catherine Kanter             Magna Township Planning Commission
Deputy Mayor of Regional
Operations                   8952 W Magna Main St
                             Magna, UT 84044
Scott R. Baird, P.E.
Director, Public
Works Department
                             Subject:        Fencing requests along Kersey Creek located within the Magna Metro
Kade D. Moncur, P.E., CFM
Director, Flood Control                      Township in Salt Lake County
Engineering Division


FLOOD CONTROL
                             Magna Township Planning Commission,
ENGINEERING DIVISION
Government Center            This letter is in response to requests to install fencing along or over Kersey Creek
2001 South State Street
Suite N3-120                 located within the Magna Metro Township by new commercial or residential
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190   developments in the area. Kersey Creek is a Salt Lake County Flood Control (SLCo FC)
T 385-468-6600               Facility as listed in Ordinance Title 17.08.040 - Specific facilities.
F 385-468-6603
slco.org/flood-control       SLCo FC does not allow fencing along or over Flood Control Facilities unless approved
                             by permit. SLCo FC needs to be able to gain access along Flood Control Facilities to
                             remove debris and flood fight if necessary. Also, FC understands that natural features,
                             such as waterways, are inherently dangerous and require that reasonable adults will
                             recognize these risks and act accordingly and should not be fenced off.

                             Sincerely,




                             Kade D. Moncur, PE, CFM
                             Division Director
                             Flood Control Engineering



                             cc:     Ms. Bonnie McCallister- FC Permit Review Specialist, SLCo Flood Control
                                     Mr. Jefferson Thomson - Engineer, SLCo PW Engineering
                                     Ms. Diana Martinez - Land Use Planner, MSD Planning & Development Services
                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.msd.utah.gov




                                            File # REZ2021-000256

                   Rezone Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Planning Commission
Meeting Date: April 8, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-32-451-004-0000
Current Zone: A-20
Proposed Zone: P-C Zone
Property Address: 8230 West 4100 South
Request: Rezone
Applicant Name: Ivory Homes

MSD Planner: Travis Hair
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approve rezone request



                                        PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Ivory Homes, is requesting to rezone one parcel located at 8230 West 4100 South, from A-20
(Agricultural), to P-C (Planned Community). The applicant proposes to develop between 408 to 816 residential
units, with a range of 217,000 to 1,350,000 square feet of commercial/industrial use as a mixed-use
development. The subject property is approximately 78.48 acres of vacant undeveloped land.


                            SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attachments)
The property is located on the north side of 4100 South and between 8000 West and 8400 West. The property
to the west includes Little Valley Gateway which is zoned P-C, Planned Community and is beginning
development. The property to the north is zoned M-1, Industrial and R-1-5, Residential. Property to the
northeast is owned by United Fire Authority, UFA and is zoned A-20, but is used as a training site for the Fire
Department. The properties to the east are zoned M-1, Industrial. The property to the south is in West Valley
City and includes the Northrop Grumman manufacturing and storage site.


                                 GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The General Plan for Magna was recently adopted in March of 2021. The subject property is in the Southeast
Neighborhoods Area. The General Plan notes that this area should have similar densities to the Little Valley
Gateway project directly across U-111 which is approximately 9 units per acre; However, higher densities may
        Request: Rezone                                                File #: REZ2021-000256

be appropriate within the community’s primary commercial node at 8400 West and 3500 South as part of mixed
use development. It also acknowledges that the existing A-20 zone is a holding zone until a plan for
development is approved.


                                        ZONE CONSIDERATIONS

Chapters 19.48 and 19.69 (Height, Setbacks & Lot Dimensions)
       Requirement                      Existing Zone (A-20)                       Proposed Zone (P-C)
                            35 feet for lots under 15% grade. Other
 Height                                                                    Outlined in Development Agreement
                                 requirements for lots over 15%
 Front Yard Setback                            30 feet.                    Outlined in Development Agreement
 Side Yard Setback           8 feet. 20 feet if facing a public street.    Outlined in Development Agreement
                            With garage 15 feet, without garage 30
 Rear Yard Setback                                                         Outlined in Development Agreement
                                                 feet.
                           65 feet in 10,000 square feet in size; 100
 Lot Width                                                                 Outlined in Development Agreement
                             feet if 1 acre in size; 200 feet If 4 acres
 Lot Area                                10,000 square feet                Outlined in Development Agreement
 Lot Coverage                                     n/a                      Outlined in Development Agreement



All zoning items in the P-C Zone are defined in a specific development agreement for a project rather than by
specific zoning requirements. These items are further defined by product type in Exhibit ‘B’ to the Development
Agreement. (Draft document attached)

As noted previously and in the general plan, the A-20 zone in this area was being used as a placeholder until the
area had a plan proposed for site development.

                        ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Currently, there are no major issues of concern for this application. It should be noted that as the project
progresses, changes may be required to the road layout and dimensions provided as Salt Lake County
Engineering reviews the project. Additionally, this project is within the overpressure area and future submittals
will need to be designed according to the requirements of the overpressure area zone.


                                     NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent to all property owners within 300 feet of this project. No neighborhood response has
been received as of the writing of this report.




                                                                                                        Page 2 of 4
        Request: Rezone                                               File #: REZ2021-000256




                                     PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Development within the P-C Zone requires different plans and documents for each step of the approval process.
At the rezoning step in the process, the applicant is required to provide an outline of the area to be rezoned, a
land use table outlining the proposed permitted and conditional uses, as well as the number of residential units
and square feet of non-residential development.

The applicant has provided documents as noted above, as well as additional detail as a part of their application
submittal. As previously indicated, a draft of the Development Agreement with several exhibits outlining the
development standards is attached. The project will be required to have a Community Structure Plan, CSP
approved and Project Plans/Subdivision Phases in the future which will require more in-depth review and
approval. As a result, updates to the Development Agreement and project layout may be required.




The proposed Plan has a density range of 5.45 to 10.9 units per acre and a total unit count of 408 - 816 of
residential units, with approximately 217,000 to 1,350,000 square feet of commercial and industrial uses. The
large range in the overall project density and unit count is in part due to a variety product types that may be
built on the site by ivory Homes. However, the acreage used for the commercial and industrial uses may
increase with a potential employer (e.g. Fastenal Company or similar), and the overall residential density may
decrease. The commercial and industrial areas contemplated would be in the Village District areas as shown on
the Plan above.

                                                                                                       Page 3 of 4
        Request: Rezone                                                 File #: REZ2021-000256



As a part of their Plan, the applicant has provided the following use table as a part of the request.




The permitted and conditional land use table above is compatible with the requirements of the P-C Zone as
amended on February 23, 2021. The amendment, among other things, defined the uses allowed in P-C Zones
between 75 and 200 acres in size. Drive-through food service was not specifically listed but would be considered
a restaurant. In comparable zones, drive-throughs are a conditional use and staff wanted to keep that consistent
due to the traffic and other impacts drive-throughs create. The applicant agreed with this and has added it to
the table as shown.

The rezone request is generally compatible with the General Plan and the goals of the Magna Community for the
area to be residential and commercial and be compatible with the Little Valley Gateway Development.

                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
 The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation
to the Magna Council for approval of the proposed rezone of property from A-20, Agricultural Zone, to P-C,
Planned Community, with the following condition:

    1. That the P-C Plan as proposed by the applicant (Ivory Homes) be followed and approved as part of the
       Rezone for the subject property.




                                                                                                        Page 4 of 4
            MAHOGANY RIDGE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

This Development Agreement (“Agreement”) is entered into this _____ day of __________, 2021
(“Effective Date”), by and between the Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) and the Developer,
Ivory Development, LLC (“Developer”), a Utah limited liability company.

                                          RECITALS

A.     Magna enters into this Agreement pursuant to the powers granted by Utah Code Annotated
       § 10-9a-102(2), as amended.

B.     Developer owns certain real property in Magna, located at 8230 West 4100 South (the
       “Property”), more particularly described in Exhibit A, which it desires to develop as a
       mixed-use planned community (the “Community”), to be known as the Mahogany Ridge
       Master Planned Community, as shown on the PC-Plan (“PC-Plan”) attached hereto as
       Exhibit “B.”

C.     In accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-603 and Magna Code, Chapter 19.69, Developer
       has prepared and submitted to Magna the PC-Plan of the proposed Community, which sets
       forth the number and density of the dwelling units and other structures, streets, and
       improvements planned for the Community.

D.     The Magna Metro Township Council (the “Council”) approved the ______________ on
       _________, 2021, pursuant to Resolution ___________ (attached hereto as Exhibit “C”).

E.     The Council has authorized the negotiation and adoption of this Development Agreement
       as advancing the health, safety, and welfare of the community and the policies, goals, and
       objectives of any Plan in place governing development in the Magna area.

F.     Developer agrees to the terms of this Agreement and acknowledges its obligation to
       develop the Community as depicted on the PC-Plan and pursuant to this Agreement, in a
       manner consistent with the expectations of the Council and the regulations of the applicable
       land use ordinances.

G.     Consistent with the foregoing, and the provisions of Utah State law and Magna Code, the
       Council has authorized execution of this Agreement by Resolution ___________ (attached
       hereto as Exhibit “D”).




                                            Page 1 of 12
                                         AGREEMENT

NOW, THEREFORE, FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, THE
RECEIPT AND SUFFICIENCY OF WHICH IS HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGED, THE
PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

1.     Incorporation.

       1.1     Recitals. The recitals set forth above are incorporated herein by this reference.

       1.2     Exhibits. The exhibits attached hereto are likewise incorporated herein by this
reference:
                       Exhibit A      Legal Description
                       Exhibit B      PC-Plan
                       Exhibit C      Resolution Approving the PC-Plan
                       Exhibit D      Resolution Authorizing Execution of the Agreement
                       Exhibit E      Residential Architectural Precedents

2.     Developer Obligations.

        2.1     Before Construction. Prior to commencement of any construction on the
Community site, Developer must (a) show satisfactory proof of each of the following: (i) the
transfer of water rights to Magna sufficient to supply the needs of the Community; (ii) the payment
of required performance guarantees; (iii) the payment of all taxes on the Property; (iv) the payment
of electrical materials and labor; (v) the payment of public works testing and inspection fees; (b)
complete a preconstruction meeting with representatives of the Council; and (c) satisfy all
development processes in accordance with Magna Code Chapter 19.69, including submission and
approval of a community structure plan.

       2.2    Construction of the Community. Developer agrees to complete the Community
in accordance with the PC-Plan, Magna Code Chapter 19.69, and other associated Magna
ordinances. Any variation therefrom shall require an amendment under Section 6.6 hereof.

              2.2.1 Dedication of Public Infrastructure. Developer will dedicate to Magna all
       roads and other applicable public infrastructure within the Community (the “Public
       Infrastructure”).

               2.2.2 Building Permits. All infrastructure, roadways, and improvements
       associated with the Community must be completed, inspected, approved, and, where
       applicable, appropriately dedicated prior to the issuance of any building permits for the
       Project or any phase thereof.

              2.2.3 Geotechnical Studies. Installation of improvements and building
       construction must follow the recommendations of any geotechnical report applicable to the
       Property.


                                             Page 2 of 12
             2.2.4 Drainage. Improvements in the Community must be completed in a
       manner that controls runoff from impervious cover.

       2.3    Community Particulars. The PC-Plan contemplates the construction of up to
816_____ residential units in multiple phases, along with A minimum 5 acres of non-residential
land uses. Developer agrees to develop the Community accordingly, subject to the provisions of
Utah law and Magna’s ordinances, policies, standards, and procedures in effect as of the date of
this Agreement (“Vested Laws”). Development of the Community shall therefore accord with
the Vested Laws, any applicable future laws (as defined in Section 3.3. hereof), the PC-Plan and
this Agreement.

              2.3.1 Utility Easements. Prior to construction, Developer shall convey or
       dedicate or cause to be conveyed or dedicated to the applicable public entity or other
       applicable utility provider, at no cost, such required utility easements on or across the
       Community as necessary to facilitate the extension of required utility services to be
       constructed to and throughout the Community.

              2.3.2 Roads, Driveways, and Sidewalks. Roads, driveways, and sidewalks
       within the Community shall be consistent with the approved road details, as shown in
       Exhibit “B” hereto, subject to technical review and approval by Salt Lake County
       Engineering.

                     a.     Sidewalks and Private Driveways. Sidewalks and private
              driveways shall be designed to provide unobstructed access to the residences within
              the Community by residents, service providers, and public safety personnel and
              apparatus.

                     b.      Private Roads. Private roads in the Community, will be owned by
              the property owners and maintained by the homeowner’s association created
              pursuant to Section 2.5 hereof.

                     c.     Ingress/Egress. Developer shall, at all times, provide the
              Community with two points of ingress/egress, including temporary access during
              construction.

                      d.      Garages. Garages must be maintained as off-street parking space
              and shall not be used or converted in a manner that will eliminate covered off-
              street parking.

               2.3.3 Project Amenities and Landscaping.

                     a.      Amenities. Developer shall provide open space, services, and
              amenities for the use of the Community residents consistent with the Community



                                           Page 3 of 12
             amenities and open space plan as shown in Exhibit “B” hereto, and the provisions
             of the PC-Plan.

                    b.      Landscaping. Developer shall install and maintain landscaping
             consistent with the Landscape Design Guidelines Summary as shown in
             (Exhibit “B”). Landscaping for each residential unit shall be installed within nine
             (9) months of issuance of a certificate of occupancy, and shall include an automatic,
             underground sprinkler system.

              2.3.4 Residential Dwelling Design Elements. The Community will consist of
      single-family homes, cluster homes, and townhomes, to be constructed consistent with the
      particulars set forth in Exhibit “B”.

                    a. Construction Particulars:

                            i.      Dwellings will be designed to have a variety of exterior
                    elevations with strict avoidance of tract housing, file plans, repetitive use of
                    architectural themes and colors. It will be required for the massing of homes
                    to be scaled in such a way that it relates to the residents living within the
                    Village and Neighborhood Districts and is in harmony with the surrounding
                    area. A variety of building forms, wall planes, and roof lines will ensure that
                    building massing does not become overpowering.

                           ii.     All exterior walls facing a public road shall include
                    appealing architectural features such as multiple roofline pitches and gables,
                    dormers, wall articulation including insets and pop-outs.

                            iii.    The exterior design and materials must be similar with the
                    exterior elevations set out in Exhibit “E.” The exterior materials shall be
                    hard surface materials, including brick, stucco, stone, and cementitious
                    siding. Natural wood, metal, and vinyl and aluminum siding may be used to
                    enhance architectural features.

                           iv.  Each dwelling unit shall include an attached two-car garage.
                    The garage will be designed to accommodate side by side or tandem
                    parking.

              2.3.5 Variation. The Parties acknowledge that the final layout of the Community
      may vary from that shown on the PC-Plan due to unforeseeable market forces and other
      factors. However, pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof, any such variation, shall require an
      amendment under Section 6.6. In no event may such variation increase the number or
      density of the dwelling units.

      2.4   Assurance for Completion of Improvements. If and to the extent required by the
Vested Laws, Developer agrees to provide a performance guarantee for all infrastructure


                                          Page 4 of 12
improvements that will be dedicated to Magna, required landscaping, and project amenities unless
otherwise provided by Chapter 10-9a of the Utah Code. The performance guarantee must comply
with Magna Code Section 19.02.110. Partial releases of any such required security will be made
as work progresses based on the Vested Laws.

       2.5  Recordation of Project Declaration. Prior to the conveyance of any lot in the
Community, Developer shall cause to be recorded against the Community a Declaration which
shall:

              2.5.1   Run with the land regardless of ownership;

              2.5.2 Provide for the creation of a homeowner’s association responsible to
       maintain common areas within the Community and with the requisite authority to assess
       maintenance fees and enforce the requirements of the Declaration; and

              2.5.3 Set forth reciprocal Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions regarding
       acceptable aspects of acceptable building styles, architectural details, exterior materials,
       dwelling sizes, and other design guidelines Magna and Developer may deem necessary and
       appropriate.

      2.6     District Development Standards.

              2.6.1 Neighborhood District Development Standards. In addition to the
       Construction Particulars identified for the Community, the following development
       standards are expressly incorporated for each Neighborhood District:

                          a.     For all residential areas of Neighborhood Districts with a
                                 residential density between 4 and 8 units per gross acre, the
                                 development standards are defined in Exhibit B. For purposes of
                                 this Agreement, “gross acre” means the entire acreage within a
                                 District, inclusive of open space, private roads, and other rights
                                 of way. Roads dedicated to public use are not included in
                                 calculation of “gross acre.”

               2.6.2 Village District Development Standards. In addition to the Construction
       Particulars identified for the Community, the following development standards are
       expressly incorporated for each Village District:

                          a.     For all residential areas of Village Districts with a residential
                                 density between 6 and 12 units per gross acre, the development
                                 standards are defined in Exhibit B.

                          b.     For all mixed-use areas of Village Districts, the development
                                 standards are defined in Exhibit B.




                                            Page 5 of 12
                           c.      For all commercial areas of Village Districts, the development
                                   standards are defined in Exhibit B.


3.     Vested Rights and Reserved Legislative Powers.

        3.1    Zoning; Vested Rights. The Property is zoned Planned Community (PC), a zone
which accommodates and allows the development contemplated by this Agreement and depicted
in the PC-Plan.

               3.1.1 Rights to Develop. To the maximum extent permitted at both law and
       equity, the Parties intend that this Agreement grant Developer all rights to develop the
       Project in fulfillment of this Agreement, the Vested Laws, the Zoning Map, and the PC-
       Plan, except as specifically provided herein.

                3.1.2 Vested Rights. City and Master Developer intend that this Agreement
       confirms that the Project is vested in accordance with the PC-Plan without modification or
       interference by City except as specifically provided herein. The Parties specifically intend
       that this Agreement grant to Developer “vested rights” as that term is construed in Utah’s
       common law and pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 10-9a-509. By way of further clarification,
       the Property is vested with the right to develop and locate on the Property the uses, designs,
       and densities set forth in the PC-Plan, and to develop in accordance with dimensional
       requirements as allowed by applicable law. As of the date of this Agreement, Magna
       confirms that the uses, configurations, densities, and other development standards reflected
       in the PC-Plan are approved under, and consistent with, Magna’s existing laws, Zoning
       Map, and General Plan, including, without limitation, the approved PC-Plan allowing for
       up to 816 residential units. Developer shall have the vested right to develop and construct
       the Community in accordance with the PC-Plan. The Property is also vested with access to
       all Magna roads, described below, which adjoin or traverse any portion of the Property.
       The Parties intend that the rights granted to the Property hereunder are contractual and
       constitutional vested rights and include the rights that exist as of the Effective Date under
       statute, common law and at equity.

         3.2     Reserved Legislative Powers. Developer acknowledges that Magna is restricted
in its authority to limit its police power by contract and that the limitations to that power set forth
herein are intended to reserve to Magna all of the police power that cannot be so limited.

              3.2.1 Modification to Developer’s Vested Rights. Notwithstanding the retained
       power of Magna to enact such legislation under its police powers, such legislation shall
       only be applied to modify Developer’s vested rights where Magna finds, on the record,
       demonstrable by clear and convincing evidence, that such modification is necessary to
       prevent physical harm to a third party, which harm did not exist at the time of the execution
       of this Agreement, and which, if not addressed, would jeopardize a compelling,
       countervailing public interest as contemplated in Utah Code § 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii)(A).




                                              Page 6 of 12
               3.2.2 General Application. Any proposed change affecting Developer’s vested
       rights, pursuant to Section 3.2.1 hereof, shall be of general application to all development
       activity in Magna, and, unless Magna, in good faith, declares an emergency, Developer
       shall be entitled to prior written notice and an opportunity to be heard with respect to any
       such proposed change and its applicability to the Community project under the compelling,
       countervailing public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine.

        3.3     Future Laws. “Future Laws” means the ordinances, policies, standards, and
procedures in effect in Magna at a particular time in the future when and if Developer submits a
development application for any part of the Community project. Without waiving any rights
granted by this Agreement, Developer may at any time, choose to submit a development
application for the entire Community project under Magna’s Future Laws so long as Developer is
not then in breach of this Agreement. The Parties agree that, unless Developer so elects, the Future
Laws shall not apply to Developer’s submission for approval of any community structure plan,
project pan/subdivision plat, or site plan approval consistent with the PC-Plan and Chapter 19.69
of the Magna Code.

4.     Term.

      4.1      Effective Date.    This Agreement is effective upon the date indicated in the
preamble.

       4.2     Recordation. Upon its execution, Magna shall cause this Agreement to be
recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.

        4.3     Duration. This Agreement shall run with the land and continue in full force and
effect until 20 years after the Effective Date. All of the Developer’s obligations and duties shall
survive termination of this Agreement.

5.     Reimbursement.          If the Developer’s development of the Property triggers the need for
any “oversized” or “system” improvements, as system improvements are defined by Utah Code
Sections 11-36a-101, et seq., then Developer and City shall enter into a separate reimbursement or
pioneering agreements to set the terms for the repayment that assure a full reimbursement in a
commercially reasonable period of time and on commercially reasonable terms. For purposes of
this Section 5, system improvements shall mean those improvements that are not “project
improvements” as defined in Utah Code Section 11-36-102.

6.     General Provisions.

        6.1    Governing Law. (a) The laws of the State of Utah shall govern the interpretation
and enforcement of this Agreement. (b) Venue for any action in connection with this Agreement
shall be proper only in Salt Lake County, Utah, and the Parties waive any objection thereto.




                                             Page 7 of 12
        6.2    Remedies. In any action brought in connection with this Agreement, (a) the non-
defaulting party shall be entitled to all remedies available both at law and in equity, and (b) the
prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs.

        6.3    Waiver. A delay in the exercise of any right or remedy shall not constitute a waiver
thereof, nor shall a Party’s waiver of a breach of any provision of this Agreement be construed as
a waiver of any other breach of this Agreement.

       6.4     Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only; they shall not
be read to control or affect the meaning of any of its provisions.

      6.5     Integration. This Agreement, including the exhibits, constitutes the entire
agreement between the parties hereto and supersedes all prior written or oral agreements.

        6.6     Amendment. This Agreement may be amended by the mutual written consent of
the Parties or their successors or assigns. Such an amendment shall take effect upon its execution
by both parties and shall be recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder.

        6.7    Conflicting Terms. Except as otherwise specifically and clearly stated herein, this
Agreement, its exhibits, and additional documents or agreements that may be entered by or among
the Parties which govern the development of the project (“Development Documents”) are to be
interpreted to be complimentary to one another. However, should a conflict exist among the
Development Documents, the hierarchy of governing provisions shall be as follows:

               (i) This Agreement, and the ordinance adopting this Agreement, as defined herein;

               (ii) The rules, regulations, official policies, standards and specifications applicable
       to the development of the Property, including the applicable City ordinances, resolutions,
       state law, and federal law, shall be those in effect as of the Effective Date.

       6.8.   Severability. Should any provision of this Agreement be declared void or
unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be severed from this
Agreement, which shall otherwise remain in full force and effect, provided that such severance
does not defeat either the fundamental purpose of this Agreement or Developer’s ability to
complete the Project.

        6.9     Communication between the Parties. Notice, consent, approval, and other
communication between the Parties, provided for herein or given in connection herewith, shall be
validly served if made in writing and delivered (a) in person or by either (b) nationally recognized
overnight courier, or (c) by registered or certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested, addressed as
follows:

If to Magna:        Magna Metro Township
                      8952 W Magna Main St
                      Magna, UT 84044


                                             Page 8 of 12
                       With copies to:

                       Magna Clerk                           Greater Salt Lake
                       2001 S State St #N2-700               Municipal Services District
                       SLC, UT 84190                         2001 S State St #N3-600
                                                             SLC, UT 84190

If to Developer:       Ivory Development, LLC
                       978 East Woodoak Lane
                       Salt Lake City, UT 84117


or to such other addresses as either party may from time to time designate serve in like manner.
Any such change of address shall be given at least 10 days before the date on which the change is
to become effective.

       6.10 Effective Date of Service. Service in person or by nationally recognized overnight
courier shall be deemed delivered upon receipt. Service by mail shall be deemed delivered 72
hours following deposit in the U.S. mail.

       6.11 Consent Not Unreasonably Withheld. If any plan or action of either Party
requires the approval or consent of the other, such approval or consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.

       6.12 Conferring regarding Denials. Should the Municipal Services District staff
recommend denial of any development application by Developer, Magna and Developer shall meet
within 10 business days thereafter to resolve the issues raised in the recommendation.

        6.13 Authority. The Parties represent (a) that they have full power and authority to enter
into this Agreement, (b) that all necessary actions have been taken to give full force and effect
thereto, and (c) that the individuals executing this Agreement are authorized and empowered to
bind the Parties on whose behalf each is signing.

        6.14 Binding Effect. The benefits and burdens of this Agreement shall be binding upon
and shall inure to the benefit of the Parties and their respective legal representatives, successors in
interest, and assigns.

       6.15 Third Parties. There are no third-party beneficiaries to this Agreement, and no
person or entity not a party hereto shall have any right or cause of action hereunder.

       6.16 No Agency Created. This Agreement creates no partnership, joint venture, or
agency relationship between the parties.




                                              Page 9 of 12
        6.17 Agreement Runs with the Land. The agreements, benefits, burdens, rights and
responsibilities contained herein shall be deemed to run with the land and shall be binding on and
shall inure to the benefit of all successors in ownership of the Property, or portion thereof, as
applicable, with respect to that portion of the Property owned by such successors in ownership.
Nothing in this Agreement shall apply to residents or property owners who purchase developed
lots or units within the Community.

         6.18 Obligations and Rights of Mortgage Lenders. The holder of any mortgage, deed
of trust, or other security arrangement with respect to any portion of the Property shall not be
obligated under this Agreement to construct or complete improvements or to guarantee such
construction or completion, but shall otherwise be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement which pertain to any portion of the Property in which it holds an interest. Any such
holder who comes into possession of any portion of the Property, pursuant to a foreclosure of a
mortgage or a deed of trust, or deed in lieu of such foreclosure, shall take such portion of the
Property, subject to any pro rata claims for payments or charges against such portion thereof, deed
restrictions, or other obligations which accrue prior to the time such holder comes into possession.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to permit or authorize any such holder to
devote the Property, or portion thereof, to any uses, or to construct any improvements thereon,
other than those uses and improvements provided for or authorized by this Agreement, as would
be the case in any assignment, and thus shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, to include the obligations related to the completion of amenities and improvements.

       6.19 Further Action. The Parties hereby agree to execute and deliver such additional
documents and to take all further actions as may become necessary or desirable to fully carry out
the provisions and intent of this Agreement.




                                            Page 10 of 12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above
written:
                                                  MAGNA
                                                  A Utah political subdivision



                                                    _______________________________
                                                    MAYOR

  ATTEST:                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM:



  ______________________________
                                                  ______________________________
  MAGNA CLERK/RECORDER                            MAGNA ATTORNEY



STATE OF UTAH                )
                             ) SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE          )

On this ______ day of ________________, 2021, appeared before me _______, personally known
to me or identified on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the Mayor of Magna, who
acknowledged to me that he executed the foregoing instrument on behalf of Magna.

                                                    WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL:


                                                    Notary Public




                                          Page 11 of 12
                                                  IVORY DEVELOPMENT, LLC
                                                  Developer



                                                  _______________________________
                                                  Bryon Prince, Vice President



STATE OF UTAH              )
                           ) SS.
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE        )

On       this ______ day of ________________, 2021, appeared before me
_______________________, personally known to me or identified on the basis of satisfactory
evidence to be the Vice President of Ivory Development LLC, who acknowledged to me that he
executed the foregoing instrument on behalf of Ivory Development LLC.

                                                  WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL:


                                                  Notary Public

4825-8709-0912, v. 2




                                        Page 12 of 12
EXHIBIT A

A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PART OF THAT ENTIRE TRACT DESCRIBED IN THAT SPECIAL
WARRANTY DEED RECORDED DECEMBER 6, 2012 AS ENTRY NO. 11529897 IN BOOK
10084, AT PAGE 9622 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER LOCATED
IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER (SE 1/4) OF SECTION 32, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 2
WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, COUNTY OF SALT
LAKE, STATE OF UTAH. THE BOUNDARY OF SAID PARCEL OF LAND IS DESCRIBED AS
FOLLOWS:


BEGINNING ON THE EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF U-111 AT A POINT WHICH IS
S89°52’43”E 146.13 FEET AND N00°00’00”E 33.00 FEET FROM THE SOUTH QUARTER
CORNER OF SAID SECTION 32, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 2 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE
AND MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING THENCE ALONG SAID EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE THE
FOLLOWING SEVEN COURSES: 1) N00°13’38”E 44.42 FEET; 2) THENCE ALONG A NON-
TANGENT CURVE TO THE RIGHT, HAVING A RADIUS OF 70.00 FEET, A DISTANCE OF
109.96 FEET, A CHORD DIRECTION OF N44°46’22”W AND A CHORD DISTANCE OF 99.00
FEET; 3) N00°13’38”E 271.49 FEET; 4) N90°00’00”E 57.19 FEET; 5) N00°00’00”E 75.00
FEET; 6) N90°00’00”W 56.89 FEET; 7) N00°13’38”E 1200.00 FEET; THENCE LEAVING
SAID EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE S88°42’37”E 1028.11 FEET; THENCE S13°02’03”E
113.53 FEET; THENCE S88°42’37”E 836.39 FEET TO THE BOUNDARY OF BURNING
TOWER SUBDIVISION AS RECORDED AS ENTRY NO. 9987373; THENCE ALONG SAID
BOUNDARY THE FOLLOWING TWO COURSES: 1) S00°01’50”W 885.35 FEET; 2)
S89°52’06”E 660.00 FEET TO THE WESTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF 8000 WEST
STREET; THENCE ALONGS SAID WESTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE S00°01’50”W 627.01
FEET TO THE NORTH RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF 4100 SOUTH STREET; THENCE ALONG
SAID NORTHERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE N89°52’43”W 2485.42 FEET TO THE POINT OF
BEGINNING.
CONTAINS 78.49 ACRES IN AREA
                                                                                                                                                                 MAHOGANY RIDGE                                                                                                                             2815 East 3300 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (801) 305-4670     www.edmpartners.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                    8230 WEST 4100 SOUTH




                                                                                                       SIGMA DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ivory Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            978 East Woodoak Lane


                                                                                                                                                                                                PC - PLAN                                                                                                   Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            801-747-7000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.   All sanitary sewer improvements shall conform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 with the standards and specifications of Magna




                                                                                                                                         8000 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2.   All culinary water improvements shall conform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 with the standards and specifications of Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                           AS-SURVEYED LEGAL DESCRIPTION                                                                                         Water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3.   All secondary water improvements shall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 conform with the standards and specifications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of Magna Water.
                                                                                                                                                            A PARCEL OF LAND BEING A PART OF THAT ENTIRE TRACT DESCRIBED IN THAT SPECIAL WARRANTY DEED RECORDED DECEMBER 6, 2012 AS ENTRY NO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.   All improvements in the public right of way
                                                                                                                                                            11529897 IN BOOK 10084, AT PAGE 9622 IN THE OFFICE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY RECORDER LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST QUARTER (SE 1/4) OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 shall conform with the standards and
                                                                                                                                                            SECTION 32, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 2 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, COUNTY OF SALT LAKE, STATE OF UTAH.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 specifications of the Greater Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                            THE BOUNDARY OF SAID PARCEL OF LAND IS DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Municipal Service District.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.   All private improvements shall conform to
                                                                                                                                                            BEGINNING ON THE EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF U-111 AT A POINT WHICH IS S89°52'43”E 146.13 FEET AND N00°00'00”E 33.00 FEET FROM THE                 APWA standards and specifications.
                                                                                                                                                            SOUTH QUARTER CORNER OF SAID SECTION 32, TOWNSHIP 1 SOUTH, RANGE 2 WEST, SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN; AND RUNNING THENCE ALONG SAID             6.   Contractor to field locate and verify the
                                                                                                                                                            EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE THE FOLLOWING SEVEN COURSES: 1) N00°13'38”E 44.42 FEET; 2) THENCE ALONG A NON-TANGENT CURVE TO THE RIGHT,                 horizontal and vertical location of all utilities
                                                                                                                                                            HAVING A RADIUS OF 70.00 FEET, A DISTANCE OF 109.96 FEET, A CHORD DIRECTION OF N44°46'22”W AND A CHORD DISTANCE OF 99.00 FEET; 3)                    prior to beginning work.
                                                                                                                                                            N00°13'38”E 271.49 FEET; 4) N90°00'00”E 57.19 FEET; 5) N00°00'00”E 75.00 FEET; 6) N90°00'00”W 56.89 FEET; 7) N00°13'38”E 1200.00 FEET; THENCE
                                                                                   8400 WEST STREET




                                                                                                                                                            LEAVING SAID EASTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE S88°42'37”E 1028.11 FEET; THENCE S13°02'03”E 113.53 FEET; THENCE S88°42'37”E 836.39 FEET TO THE
                                                                                                                                                            BOUNDARY OF BURNING TOWER SUBDIVISION AS RECORDED AS ENTRY NO. 9987373; THENCE ALONG SAID BOUNDARY THE FOLLOWING TWO COURSES: 1)
                                                                                                                                                            S00°01'50”W 885.35 FEET; 2) S89°52'06”E 660.00 FEET TO THE WESTERLY RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF 8000 WEST STREET; THENCE ALONGS SAID WESTERLY
                                                                                                                                                            RIGHT OF WAY LINE S00°01'50”W 627.01 FEET TO THE NORTH RIGHT OF WAY LINE OF 4100 SOUTH STREET; THENCE ALONG SAID NORTHERLY RIGHT OF
                                                                                                                                                            WAY LINE N89°52'43”W 2485.42 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.


                                                                                                                                                            CONTAINS 78.49 ACRES IN AREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHEET INDEX

                                                                                                                                                                       O-1    TITLE SHEET

                                                                                                                     4100 SOUTH STREET                                 O-2    LAND USE AND OWNERSHIP MAP

                                                                                                                                                                       O-3    UTILITY PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                       O-4    ROAD CROSS SECTIONS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  02/26/21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mahogany Ridge
C:\Users\nick\EDM Partners Dropbox\Projects\Magna PRI\Drawings\1.Title Sheet.dwg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Title Sheet

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN BY:                                     NMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVIEWED BY:                                  PMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REVISIONS:
                                                                                                      VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                          No. DATE                                REMARKS

                                                                                                         1" = 250'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BENCHMARK
                                                                                                                                                                   THE PROJECT BENCHMARK IS A 3" BRASS CAP AT THE INTERSECTION OF 4100 SOUTH STREET AND 8400 WEST                                           DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                   STREET. ELEVATION = 4598.82                                                                                                                             February 26, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O-1
MAHOGANY RIDGE
    Magna, Utah
                                                             CONTENTS
Land Use
   Neighborhood District................................................................................................................ 3
   Village District............................................................................................................................ 4
   Commercial............................................................................................................................... 6
   Residential Bulk & Intensity Requirements................................................................................ 7
   Parking ..................................................................................................................................... 8
Open Space & Recreation
   Amenities Options..................................................................................................................... 9
   Monumentation & Theming....................................................................................................... 11
   Landscape Design Guidelines................................................................................................... 13




                                          MAHOGANY RIDGE                        magna, utah                                                          2
                                                                                                                   ã
                                                                                      ENGINEERING AND SURVEYING, LLC
                                                   FOCUS
                                                                                                                 MIDVALE, UTAH 84047 PH: (801) 352-0075
                                                                                                                   6949 S. HIGH TECH DRIVE SUITE 200

                                                                                                                             www.focusutah.com
 Neighborhood District
 Homes within the Neighborhood District will be traditional single family detached homes on lots 4,500 square
 feet or larger, with a minimum lot width of 45 feet. The homes within the Neighborhood District will feature me-
 dium sized yards, front or side load garages, and will be located in the northeast area of the Mahogany Ridge
 community. The images below generally illustrate the architectural character of homes within the Neighborhood
 District.


                     15' MIN.
                   REAR YARD
                    SETBACK
     5' MIN.
   SIDEYARD
   SETBACK                        7' MIN.
                                SIDEYARD
                                SETBACK



                                            XXXXXXXXXXXXX


     22' MIN.
   FRONT YARD
                                                                                    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX




    SETBACK


                       45'
                                                                                                             sheet - XX




   12'
  REAR
SETBACK




       10' MIN.
     SIDEYARD
      SETBACK
   (CORNER LOTS)
                                                             DESCRIPTION




                                                                                                                                                          n 21-0104\dwg\Example Lots MR.dwg
                                            REVISION BLOCK


                                                                           ----
                                                                                  ----
                                                                                           ----
                                                                                                         ----
                                                                                                                        ----
                                                                                                                                          ----
                                                             DATE

                                                                           ----
                                                                                  ----
                                                                                           ----
                                                                                                         ----
                                                                                                                        ----
                                                                                                                                          ----




                                  MAHOGANY RIDGE                                                                                            magna, utah                                       3
                                                             #

                                                                           1

                                                                                  2

                                                                                            3

                                                                                                          4

                                                                                                                         5

                                                                                                                                           6
Village District
Homes in the Village District will include a variety of housing types including, but not limited to, single family,
cluster homes with shared driveways, and townhomes.

The homes within the Village District may be attached or detached, and will have two-car garages that can be
accessed from the front or rear of the home. The images below generally illustrate the architectural character
of homes within the Village District designation. Homes closer than five feet (5’) to the property line require a
firewall per International Building Code (IBC).



              Front-Load Cottage




                                                                                        Rear-Load Cottage




Rear-yard setbacks on rear-load cottages & townhomes shall be either 5’ or 22’. In the event that the
rear-load townhome has a 22’ rear setback, the front setback shall be 10’ instead of 22’. All rear-load
towns & cluster homes shall have garage access from private lanes only.

                                   MAHOGANY RIDGE             magna, utah                                         4
                                          Cluster Homes




Note: All rear-load townhomes and cluster homes shall have garage access from private lanes only.

                            MAHOGANY RIDGE           magna, utah                                    5
Commercial
Along the 4100 South and 8400 West corridors, Mahogany Ridge will offer a variety of commercial
opportunities within the Village District. Commercial development at Mahogany Ridge will include small
scale retail shops, restaurants, and a convenience stores/fuel station, along with industrial uses along 4100
South. The intent of the commercial development will be to provide uses that support the daily needs of the
surrounding residents within buildings that are consistent with the architectural character of the surrounding
residential neighborhoods. The commercial areas will include a minimum of 5 acres of commercial and/or
industrial uses. The images below generally illustrate the architectural character of buildings constructed within
the Village District.




                                  MAHOGANY RIDGE            magna, utah                                       6
Residential Bulk & Intensity Requirements

                                               Village District
                                                                                                  Neighborhood
                                                Front     Rear                   Town-               District
                           Cluster
                                                Load      Load                   homes
                                                  3,500            3,500          As shown                  4,500
         Min. Lot Area          NA
                                                   sqft             sqft           on plat                   sqft

            Minimum
            Lot Width
                                NA                 35’              35’              NA                      45’
          (Measured at
            Setback)
                       12’ to any public
                                                                                10’ or 22’ on
                        ROW, 5’ to ad-
                                                                                Rear-Load**
          Min. Front    jacent homes,
                                                   22’              10’                            22’ (20’ on cul-de-sacs)
         Yard Setback   10’ to adjacent
                                                                                 22’ on Front
                      shared driveways
                                                                                     Load
                      or private ROWs

           Minimum
           Side Yard                             3’ on one        3’ on one            10’
                         3’ on one side &                                                         5’ on one side & 7’ on one
            Setback                               side &           side &       (must comply
                          7’ on one side                                                                     side
            (Interior                         7’ on one side   7’ on one side   with fire code)
              Lots)

           Minimum
           Side Yard
                                15’                15’              15’              15’                     15’
            Setback
         (Corner Lots)

                          12’ to any public
           Minimum
                           ROW, 5’ to ad-
           Rear Yard
                           jacent homes,
            Setback                                10’            5’ or 22’        5’ or 22’                 15’
                           10’ to adjacent
            (Interior
                         shared driveways
              Lots)
                         or private ROWs

                        12’ to any public
           Minimum       ROW, 5’ to ad-
           Rear Yard     jacent homes,
                                                   10’            5’ or 22’        5’ or 22’                 15’
            Setback      10’ to adjacent
         (Corner Lots) shared driveways
                       or private ROWs



           Maximum
           Building             45’                45’              45’              45’                     35’
            Height



*Irregular shaped lots located along the circular portion of a cul-de-sac or a knuckle portion of a street may be
reduced to a minimum of thirty five (35’) of frontage at the right of way line of a public street.
**In the event that the rear-load townhome has a 22’ rear setback, the front setback shall be 10’ instead of 22’.




                                      MAHOGANY RIDGE                  magna, utah                                              7
Parking
  1. Rear-Load Driveways: All rear loaded units shall have a driveway/apron between the curb and the
  garage of either 5’ or 22’ (nothing in between). All rear-load driveways shall be on private lanes.
  2. Townhome Parking:
        a. Private Parking: Each townhome unit will include a two car garage which will equal two stalls of
        private parking. Private parking is allowed in garages, on private driveways, or in private designated
        parking stalls.
        b. All driveways less than 22’ long shall not be allowed to be used as private or guest parking. All
        driveways less than 16’ wide can only be used/counted as one parking stall.
        c. Private Driveway Guest Parking: If a townhome unit does not use their driveway for its required
        two stalls of private parking and provides the driveway as two guest parking stalls, additional guest
        parking will be required for these units at a ratio of 1 guest parking stall per 6 units.
        d. Additional Guest Parking: If a townhome unit does not provide two guest parking stalls in the
        driveway, guest parking will be required for these units at a ratio of 1 guest parking stall per 3 units.
        e. The minimum allowable parking stall size for guest off-street parking is 18’ long and 9’ wide.
        f. The minimum allowable parking stall size within a driveway is 22’ long by 8’ wide.
  3. Commercial Parking:
        a. Retail, personal service, and repair businesses: 5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet.
        b. Medical and dental office and clinics: 4 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet.
        c. Other professional and business offices, including financial: 4 parking spaces per 1,000 square
        feet.




                                MAHOGANY RIDGE             magna, utah                                       8
Amenities Options




                    MAHOGANY RIDGE   magna, utah   9
           Amenities Options


                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIVE LANDSCAPE




E




                                                                                                                   MOUNTAIN BIKING

                                                                                                                                                                    NATIVE LANDSCAPE
                                              NATIVE LANDSCAPE                                                        SOFT SURFACE PEDESTRIAN TRAIL




S




                                                                                                                  NATIVE LANDSCAPE




                                                                 MOUNTAIN BIKING


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MOUNTAIN BIKING

                                                                                                                      NATIVE LANDSCAPE
                   SITE FURNISHINGS: BENCH SEATING                             TRAILSIDE SHELTER WITH SITE FURNISHINGS




                                                                                     PAVED PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY WITH SITE FURNISHINGS




                                                                                                                                               SITE FURNISHINGS: BENCH SEATING                     TRAILSIDE SHELTER WITH SITE FURNISHINGS




                                                                                 PAVED PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY WITH SITE FURNISHINGS


E


                                                                                                                               STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SEATING                                TRAILSIDE SHELTER WITH SITE FURNISHINGS                                    NATIVE LANDSCAPE




                                                                                                                                                                 SITE FURNISHINGS: BENCH SEATING                                             TRAILSIDE SH




                                                                                                              WINTER TRAIL RUNNING                                                                        DOG WALKING                  CROSS-COUNTRY SKIING




G                                                                                        DOG WALKING                                  CROSS-COUNTRY SKIING
                                                                                                                                                                                        JONES RANCH
                                                                                                                                                                                 WEST JORDAN CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY

                                                                                                                      NATIVE LANDSCAPE                                               PASSIVE OPEN SPACES
                                                                    JONES RANCH
                                                                 PICKLEBALL COURTS            PARK PAVILION

                                                     WEST JORDAN CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY

                                                              PASSIVE OPEN SPACES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ACTIVE OPEN SPAC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DOG
                                                                                                                 WINTER TRAIL RUNNING                                                                                        PLAYGROUND EQUIP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JONES RA
S-COUNTRY SKIING                                                                                                                            TRAIL RUNNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                     WEST JORDAN CITY, SA

                                                          MAHOGANY RIDGE
                                                DOG WALKING                   CROSS-COUNTRY SKIING
                                                                                                            magna, utah                                                                                                  10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PASSIVE OPEN
Monumentation & Theming
Mahogany Ridge will feature a cohesive and coordinated monumentation and theming style that is unique to
the community and identifiable to the residents. This style will used throughout the community for site features
and elements such as monument signs, wayfinding signage, site furnishings, lighting, raised planters, check
dams, and site retaining walls. The selected materials will be chosen for their design aesthetic as well as
durability, cost, and availability, which may include wood, brick, concrete, natural stone, and steel. These
materials are typically cost effective, durable, and readily available, and with a variety of color combinations
they will be used throughout the community to create a cohesive exterior theme.
Primary entry monuments and secondary monument signs will be integrated into the Mahogany Ridge
community at strategic locations to identify primary entry points and the different neighborhoods within the
community. Primary monuments
will generally be significant in
size, but at a pedestrian scale,
and may include enhanced
landscape improvements and
lighting. Secondary monument
signage will typically be smaller
than primary monuments, but
will maintain similar materials,
styles, scale, and landscape
improvement as primary
monuments.




                                  MAHOGANY RIDGE           magna, utah                                       11
MAHOGANY RIDGE   magna, utah   12
Landscape Design Guidelines

                                                              6949 S. High Tech Drive Suite 200
                                                                             Midvale, UT 84047
                                                             P (801) 352-0075 F (801) 352-7989




                      Landscape Design Guidelines Summary
  The following exhibits outline the landscape and irrigation efficiency standards for the
  residential uses at Mahogany Ridge.




                           MAHOGANY RIDGE         magna, utah                                     13
MAHOGANY RIDGE   magna, utah   14
MAHOGANY RIDGE   magna, utah   15
MAHOGANY RIDGE   magna, utah   16
                                                                                                                                                                                RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                            INDUSTRIAL                          R-1-5 ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     INDUSTRIAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SIGMA DRIVE
                                                                                                                                             M-1 ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M-1 ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2815 East 3300 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84109
                                                                                                                                                   14-32-402-004                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (801) 305-4670     www.edmpartners.com

                                                                                                                                              STOR EM MAGNA PPCO LLC

                                                                                                                                                                                                14-32-402-032
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KAPPA DRIVE                                                                                                                                                                  SCALE: 1" = 100'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-452-001


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-001


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-002


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-003

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-004


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-005


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-006


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-007


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-008


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-009


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-010


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-011


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14-32-432-012
                                                                                                                                                                                                   LOT 308
                                                                                                 PLANNED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 314


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 315


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 316


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 317

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 318


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 319




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 321
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 320




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 322


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 323


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 324


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 325


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LOT 326
                                                                                                                                                                                                 14-32-402-033                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0     50    100         200                      300
                                                                                                COMMUNITY                                                                                           LOT 309                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OWNER:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ivory Development
                                                                                                 P-C ZONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              978 East Woodoak Lane
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UNIFIED FIRE                                                       801-747-7000

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUTHORITY
                                                                                                                                   CORDERO DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.   All sanitary sewer improvements shall conform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            with the standards and specifications of Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2.   All culinary water improvements shall conform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            with the standards and specifications of Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AGRICULTURAL                                                      3.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            All secondary water improvements shall

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A-20 ZONE                                                            conform with the standards and specifications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of Magna Water.
                                                                                                LITTLE VALLEY
                                                                                                 GATEWAY TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.   All improvements in the public right of way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            shall conform with the standards and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            specifications of the Greater Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Municipal Service District.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5.   All private improvements shall conform to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APWA standards and specifications.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14-32-476-002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8000 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6.   Contractor to field locate and verify the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            horizontal and vertical location of all utilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE VALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            prior to beginning work.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M-1 ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FIRE SERVICE AREA
                                                                                                                8400 WEST STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14-32-476-003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SALT LAKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COUNTY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAGNA 71 LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14-33-351-004
                                                                                                                                                                                CORDERO DRIVE




                                                                                                INDUSTRIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   02/26/21
C:\Users\nick\EDM Partners Dropbox\Projects\Magna PRI\Drawings\2.Land Use & Ownership Map.dwg




                                                                                                 M-2 ZONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mahogany Ridge

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Land Use &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ownership Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY:                                     NMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVIEWED BY:                                  PMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       No. DATE                                REMARKS
                                                                                                                                                            4100 SOUTH STREET


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DATE:
                                                                                                                                                          20-04-100-005                                                                                                                                                                                                  MANUFACTURING                                                                                                                                                February 26, 2021

                                                                                                                                                    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                                                                                                                                                                                                M ZONE                                                                                                                                     SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O-2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SIGMA DRIVE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LEGEND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING SANITARY SEWER

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING WATER LINE                         2815 East 3300 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (801) 305-4670     www.edmpartners.com


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING IRRGATION LINE

                                                                                                                             EXISTING SEWER LINE                                                                                                                                          KAPPA DRIVE                                                EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                       SCALE: 1" = 100'

                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                           0     50    100         200                      300
                                                                                                                             EXISTING WATER LINE                                                                       (452
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OWNER:
                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ivory Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 978 East Woodoak Lane
                                                                                                                                                                    TO BE RELOCATED                                                             EXISTING WATER LINE                                                                                                                              Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 801-747-7000
                                                                                                             (45




                                                                                                                                                                                                                EEK
                                                                                                                   30
                                                                                                                      )                                                                                                                                                                              (4530)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (45

                                                                                                                                   CORDERO DRIVE                                                                                                    EXISTING SEWER LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                        ON CR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NOTES:




                                                                                                                                                                                             (4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1.   All sanitary sewer improvements shall conform




                                                                                                                                                                                               53
                                                                                                                                                                                               0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with the standards and specifications of Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Water.




                                                                                                                                                                                                     CANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2.   All culinary water improvements shall conform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with the standards and specifications of Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3.   All secondary water improvements shall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      conform with the standards and specifications




                                                                                                                                                                                                    COON
                                                                                                         (4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      of Magna Water.
                                                                                                             54
                                                                                                                0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.   All improvements in the public right of way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      shall conform with the standards and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      specifications of the Greater Salt Lake

                                                                                                                             EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                  (4540
                                                                                                                                                                                         )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Municipal Service District.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      All private improvements shall conform to
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      APWA standards and specifications.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6.   Contractor to field locate and verify the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8000 WEST STREET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4540)                                          (45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      horizontal and vertical location of all utilities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      prior to beginning work.

                                                                                                         (45
                                                                                                            5      0)
                                                                                    8400 WEST STREET




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     )                                                                         (4550)
                                                                                                                                                                    (4550)
                                                                                                       (45
                                                                                                        60
                                                                                                           )




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (4560)




                                                                                                        ( 45
                                                                                                               70
                                                                                                                    )                                                              (45
                                                                                                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                                                                                                        )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EXISTING WATER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING STORM DRAIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                       CORDERO DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (456

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N CR                           TO BE RELOCATED                                                              0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EXISTING SEWER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NYO


                                                                                                                (4                                     (45
                                                                                                                   58                                        70)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       02/26/21
                                                                                                                     0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       56                                           (4570)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mahogany Ridge
C:\Users\nick\EDM Partners Dropbox\Projects\Magna PRI\Drawings\3.Utility Plan.dwg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXISTING SECONDARY WATER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              COO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (4570
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          )

                                                                                                                                    EXISTING SECONDARY WATER LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Utility Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING SEWER LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXISTING STORM DRAIN                                                                                                                              PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                              EXISTING WATER LINE
                                                                                                               (4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EXISTING WATER LINE
                                                                                                                    59




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DRAWN BY:                                     NMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0)
                                                                                                                        0)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              57
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVIEWED BY:                                  PMD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (4580)                                                              REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 No. DATE                                REMARKS
                                                                                                                                                                             4100 SOUTH STREET


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                February 26, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O-3
                                                                                                           PUBLIC / PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2815 East 3300 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84109
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (801) 305-4670     www.edmpartners.com




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OWNER:
                                                                                                                                                                 60.0' ROW                                                                                Ivory Development
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          978 East Woodoak Lane
                                                                                          5.0'         5.0'          2.5'                                                                                           2.5'             5.0'         5.0'    Salt Lake City, UT 84117
                                                                                                                                                                35.0' ASPHALT
                                                                                       SIDEWALK     PARK STRIP       C&G                                                                                            C&G           PARK STRIP   SIDEWALK   801-747-7000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOTES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.   All sanitary sewer improvements shall conform
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               with the standards and specifications of Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2.   All culinary water improvements shall conform
                                                                                                                                                          60' ROW PUBLIC STREET                                                                                with the standards and specifications of Magna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Water.
                                                                                                                                                                 NOT TO SCALE                                                                             3.   All secondary water improvements shall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               conform with the standards and specifications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of Magna Water.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4.   All improvements in the public right of way
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               shall conform with the standards and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               specifications of the Greater Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Municipal Service District.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.   All private improvements shall conform to
                                                                                                                                                                 50.0' ROW                                                                                     APWA standards and specifications.
                                                                                                  1.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6.   Contractor to field locate and verify the
                                                                                                            4.0'         5.0'        2.5'                                                              2.5'      5.0'            4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                25.0' ASPHALT                                                                  1.0'            horizontal and vertical location of all utilities
                                                                                                         SIDEWALK     PARK STRIP     C&G                                                               C&G    PARK STRIP      SIDEWALK                         prior to beginning work.




                                                                                                                                                          50' ROW PUBLIC STREET
                                                                                                                                                                 NOT TO SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                 42.0' ROW
                                                                                                                       5.0'           5.0'         2.5'                                                          2.5'      2.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                25.0' ASPHALT
                                                                                                                    SIDEWALK       PARK STRIP      C&G                                                           C&G




                                                                                                                                                          42' ROW PRIVATE STREET
                                                                                                                                                                 NOT TO SCALE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                02/26/21

                                                                                                                                                                 26.0' ROW
                                                                                                                                            2.0'                   22.0'                        2.0'
                                                                                                                                            C&G                  PAVEMENT                       C&G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mahogany Ridge
C:\Users\nick\EDM Partners Dropbox\Projects\Magna PRI\Drawings\4.Street Sections.dwg




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Street Sections

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DRAWN BY:                                     NMM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REVIEWED BY:                                  PMD
                                                                                                                                                          26' ROW PRIVATE ALLEY                                                                           REVISIONS:
                                                                                                                                                                 NOT TO SCALE                                                                             No. DATE                                REMARKS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         February 26, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHEET NUMBER:


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O-4
                 I VO RY C O L L E C T I O N




2200 Farmhouse
I VO RY G A R D E N S
PA RK S I D E C OT TA G E S
C A R R I AG E L A N E
    C O T TA G E S
2019
                                         Planning and Development Services
                                         2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                         Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                         msd.utah.gov




                                          Case# REZ2021-000262


                   Rezone Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Planning Commission
Meeting Date: April 8, 2021
Parcel ID: 14-29-103-003-0000 & 14-29-103-004-0000
Current Zone: R-2-6.5 (Residential)
Proposed Zone: C-2 (Commercial)
Property Address: 8609 West Magna Main Street
Request: Rezone
Applicant Name: Unified Fire Department (Rep Steve Simmons)

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with zoning conditions




                                          PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Unified Fire Department (rep Steve Simmons), is proposing to rezone the subject properties in
order to allow for a new fire station to be built on these lots. The subject properties are 0.57 acres in size. The
proposed fire station building will not meet the required setbacks of the current R-2-6.5 (Residential ) zone.

The majority of Magna Main Street is zoned commercial (either C-2 or C-3). Currently, there are a few
remaining parcels along Magna Main Street with residential uses on them. These properties are zoned
residential (either R-1-6/zc, R-M, or R-2-6.5).




                            SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The subject property is along the easterly end of Magna Main Street. There are a few parcels in this small
section of Magna Main that are zoned R-2-6.5. The parcels to the direct east, and across Buccaneer Drive are
zoned Commercial C-2, therefore the proposed rezone appears to be compatible and consistent with the
existing zoning.
         Request: Rezone                                                 File #: REZ2021-000262




                                  GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The new Magna General Plan was adopted on March 23, 2021. As per Magna’s General Plan, the subject
properties are located where there should be encouragement of development and redevelopment along Magna
Main Street to strengthen its role as a historical center and urban district. Adopting zoning that addresses
building form, setbacks, parking, landscaping, block structure, uses, and other components with Main Street to
encourage appropriate redevelopment/development patterns to protect the historic character of Main Street
while protecting property rights to encourage economic development.



                                         ZONE CONSIDERATIONS
         Requirement                      Existing Zone R-2-6.5                          Proposed Zone C-2
                                                                              No more than six stories or not to
  Height                      35 feet
                                                                              exceed seventy-five feet
  Front Yard Setback          25 feet                                         20 feet
                                                                              10 feet if adjacent to a residential land
  Side Yard Setback           8 feet each side.                               use, and if on a corner lot which faces
                                                                              a street shall not be less than 20 feet.
                                                                              None, unless on a corner lot which
                                                                              rear upon the side yard of another lot
  Rear Yard Setback           30 feet (15 feet with garage)
                                                                              in a residential zone, the minimum is
                                                                              ten feet.
                              60 feet min. at a distance 25 feet from
  Lot Width                                                                   None
                              the front lot line
  Lot Area                    8,000 sq. ft. for any main building             None

  Compatibility with existing buildings in terms of size, scale and height.                 yes
  Compliance with Landscaping Requirements Verified.                                        n/a
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                         yes



                         ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
No issues of concern have been identified for the proposed rezone.




                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notices were sent to the property owners within 300’ of the subject property. No responses have been received
as of the writing of this report.



Rezone                                                                                                        Page 2 of 3
         Request: Rezone                                             File #: REZ2021-000262




                                    PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.90.060 Conditions to Zoning Map Amendment

   1. In order to provide more specific land use designations and land development suitability; to insure that
      proposed development is compatible with surrounding neighborhoods; and to provide notice to property
      owners of limitations and requirements for development of property, conditions may be attached to any
      zoning map amendment which limit or restrict the following:
           1. Uses;
           2. Dwelling unit density;
           3. Building square footage;
           4. Height of structures.
   2. A zoning map amendment attaching any conditions set forth in subsection A shall be designated ZC after
      the zoning classification on the zoning map and any such conditions shall be placed on record with the
      planning commission and recorded with the county recorder.
   3. In the event any zoning condition is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then the entire
      zoning map amendment shall be void. Any deletion in or change to zoning condition shall be considered
      an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017



                            PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation
to the Magna Council for approval of the proposed rezone of property from the R-2-6.5 (Residential) zone, to
the C-2/zc (Commercial) zone, with the following zoning conditions:
            1. That the only use allowed on this property is for public/quasi-public use for a fire station.
            2. That the building height be restricted to thirty-five feet, as per Magna Ordinance 19.04.095
               Height of Building.




Rezone                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
                        N
                    8
                    4
                    0
                    0
                    W
Magna Main Street
                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        msd.utah.gov




                                         Case# REZ2021-000263


                   Rezone Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Planning Commission
Meeting Date: April 8, 2021
Parcel ID: 14-28-126-012-0000, 14-28-126-013-0000, 14-28-126-014-0000, 14-28-126-030-0000
Current Zone: A-1/zc (Agricultural with zoning conditions)
Proposed Zone: R-1-6 (Residential)
Property Address: 7630 West 2820 South
Request: Rezone
Applicant Name: Gough Homes (rep Tim Gough)

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with zoning conditions




                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Gough Homes (rep Tim Gough), is proposing to rezone the subject property in order to allow for a
twelve-lot single-family subdivision. The subject parcels total 2.74 acres in size. The proposed subdivision
would have lots ranging from 6,000 square feet to 8,000 square feet in size.




                            SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The subject property is north of Parkway Boulevard (2820 South) and sits between 7200 West and 8000 West.
Most of this area is established single-family dwelling neighborhoods. Recently, Ivory Homes has built
townhome developments to both the north and northwest of these properties.

The smallest existing lots in the proximity of the subject properties are 6,000 square feet, with current zoning of
R-1-6 and R-1-6/zc (zoning conditions with a 35-foot height restriction).

The properties to the west and south are zoned A-1/zc (zoning conditions prohibiting dwelling groups and
duplexes).
         Request: Rezone                                                 File #: REZ2021-000263




                                  GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The new Magna General Plan was adopted on March 23, 2021. As per Magna’s General Plan, the future land use
concept map shows the property within in the “Residential Mixed Density Area”. Existing neighborhoods in Magna
are primarily single-family residential of varying densities. Continuation of this mix of densities will accommodate
anticipated future growth in population and preserve neighborhood character while keeping special attention on
the existing single-family character within the neighborhoods. Due to varying densities, this area is likely to
absorb much of the new growth expected in Magna through infill development.




                                         ZONE CONSIDERATIONS
         Requirement                      Existing Zone A-1/zc                         Proposed Zone R-1-6
  Height                      35 feet                                         35 feet
  Front Yard Setback          30 feet                                         25 feet
                                                                              5 feet one side and 11 feet on the
                              8 feet each side, not less than eighteen
  Side Yard Setback                                                           garage or driveway side or 8 feet on
                              feet.
                                                                              each side.
                                                                              30 feet without a garage, 15 feet with
  Rear Yard Setback           30 feet
                                                                              a garage.
                                                                              60 feet at a distance 25 feet from the
  Lot Width                   65 feet
                                                                              front lot line.
  Lot Area                    10,000 sq. ft.                                  6,000 sq. ft..

  Compatibility with existing buildings in terms of size, scale and height.                yes
  Compliance with Landscaping Requirements Verified.                                       n/a
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                        yes



                         ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
No issues of concern have been identified for the proposed rezone.




                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notices were sent to the property owners within 300’ of the subject property. We have received one call in
opposition to this application, from a neighboring property owner.




Rezone                                                                                                       Page 2 of 3
         Request: Rezone                                                  File #: REZ2021-000263




                                       PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.90.060 Conditions to Zoning Map Amendment

   1. In order to provide more specific land use designations and land development suitability; to insure that
      proposed development is compatible with surrounding neighborhoods; and to provide notice to property
      owners of limitations and requirements for development of property, conditions may be attached to any
      zoning map amendment which limit or restrict the following:
           1. Uses;
           2. Dwelling unit density;
           3. Building square footage;
           4. Height of structures.
   2. A zoning map amendment attaching any conditions set forth in subsection A shall be designated ZC after
      the zoning classification on the zoning map and any such conditions shall be placed on record with the
      planning commission and recorded with the county recorder.
   3. In the event any zoning condition is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then the entire
      zoning map amendment shall be void. Any deletion in or change to zoning condition shall be considered
      an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017




                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation
to the Magna Council for approval of the proposed rezone of property from A-1/zc (Agriculture) Zone to R-1-6/zc
(Residential), with the following zoning conditions:
            1. That the use allowed on this property (subject rezone) be limited to residential single-family
               detached dwellings.
            2. That the density is limited to six (6) units per acre, or a total of 12 single-family residential lot.




Rezone                                                                                                       Page 3 of 3
    U201 Highway       N



8                  7
0                  2
0                  0
0                  0
W                  W
To:    Magna Planning Commission
From: Travis Hair, MSD Planner
Date: April 8, 2021
Re:    OAM2021-000270– Overpressure Zone Code Amendment




Magna has had a special zoning overlay for the “Overpressure Zone” Area since 1984. This zone
was created to mitigate the potential effects of pressure caused by a possible explosion on what
is now the Northrop Grumman property. The site is located on the southern border of Magna in
West Valley City. The intent of the proposed ordinance amendment and development standards
are to reasonably protect residents from possible hazards from manufacturing and storage of
explosive items, while allowing for development on properties within Magna near the site. Over
the past several years, Magna has continued to grow and the existing ordinance wasn’t as specific
as Magna or Northrop would prefer to protect both entities. The MSD Staff has worked with our
legal counsel, Salt Lake County Engineering, and Northrop to better define where the different
overpressure zones are located, clarify standards regarding building requirements and
subdivision layouts, along with other needed updates. Both the original ordinance and the
updated draft ordinance are attached along with the overpressure zone maps for your review and
consideration. A summary of the proposed revisions includes the following:
Updated Overpressure Zone Map: As shown in the attached exhibits, the rings of the overpressure
zone are more clearly defined allowing individual parcels to know exactly where the lines of the
different overpressure categories are located. This does change the overpressure category for
several parcels. A few parcels are added to the 0.2 and 0.5 categories while others move from
0.3 to a 0.2 category. With information from Northrop (consultant engineer), the main data points
have also moved somewhat, but the points closest to Magna which is the only one with impacts
to the area has moved very little.
Uses in the Overpressure Area: Part 1 of the proposed ordinance defines how common zoning
questions and uses will be handled in the overpressure area. It restricts what uses can be done
in each zone and how applications for these uses will be handled. It clarifies application
requirements for those developments within the zone. It also clarifies that if a parcel lies in
multiple zones, each portion is subject to the requirements that portion is in. For example, a parcel
with one of the rings crossing through it may build completely out of the more restrictive zone
and only be subject to those requirements. Much of this section was not included in the previous
ordinance and made navigating the ordinance complicated for both staff and developers. We
believe that this will result in a clear path for all parties moving forward.
Subdivision Standards: Another item not defined in the previous ordinance was how to handle
subdivisions within the overpressure areas. This is now defined in Part 2 of the draft. This will
help achieve the home orientations outlined in the building standards by requiring that building
lots have side yards face the overpressure area. Additionally, the draft ordinance clarifies that

               2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114 • 385-468-6700
                                           msd.utah.gov
residential subdivisions cannot be created in the 0.5 zone and outlines procedures if a portion of
a building lot is located within the 0.5 area. The draft also proposes updated requirements of what
information should be included on subdivision plats, so that potential buyers have notice of any
limitations on the property.
Finally, this part of the draft adds a requirement that Northrop be given notice of projects being
built within the overpressure area. This will allow for important application issues to be
addressed at the initial stages of a proposed project. It’s important to note that this will protect
Northrup, Magna, and developers from potential litigation.
Building Standards: The current Overpressure Area Zone has some very basic additions to both
commercial and residential building requirements. For commercial it requires a licensed
structural engineer certify any proposed structures within the overpressure zone regarding wind
load. For residential it requires that windowless or minimum glass surfaces face toward the
center of the overpressure area and that the garage or carport be placed on the side nearest the
area. Both have additional requirements for window sizing included.
These requirements are more detailed within the proposed ordinance. While the general concepts
remain the same, the exact specifications for the overpressure area forces and wind loads are
now included. A structural engineer is now required to sign off on residential buildings as well as
commercial buildings. In addition to the existing standards for glass, all glass used must now be
tempered or laminated.
Conclusion: The MSD Staff and legal counsel believe that the proposed ordinance is much clearer
about what the requirements and process for building within the overpressure area zone are. This
will benefit Magna in ensuring those areas closest to the Northrup property are reasonably
protected for future residents and visitors in the area. Therefore, the MSD Staff recommends that
the Magna Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation of approval to the Magna
Council.




Attachments/
Proposed Overpressure Ordinance
Exhibit A Overpressure Area Map
Existing Overpressure Ordinance
Map with existing overpressure zones shown.




               2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190 • 385-468-6709
                                   MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP


ORDINANCE NO.: ___________________                                DATE:________________
                    OVERPRESSURE AREAS ORDINANCE CONSOLIDATION


       AN ORDINANCE DELETING MAGNA MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 15.14 AND
       SECTIONS 18.20.060 AND 19.76.270 AND ADOPTING THE CONSOLIDATED
       ORDINANCE ENNUMERATED AS CHAPTER 16.02: OVERPRESSURE AREAS
       REGARDING THE ZONING, SUBDIVIDING, AND BUILDING STANDARDS
       REQUIRED WITHIN AN OVERPRESSURE AREA
                                              RECITALS
         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-2a-414(3) provides that a Salt Lake County ordinance will remain in
effect as the ordinance of the Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) “until the metro township council amends
or repeals the ordinance;” and
        WHEREAS, Magna adopted Ordinance No. 17-01-03 on January 17, 2017, adopting ordinances of
Salt Lake County, including Chapter 15.14, Sections 18.20.060 and 19.76.270 regarding development in
overpressure areas; and
        WHEREAS, Magna is actively updating and revising its ordinances, including zoning, to better
account for the health, welfare, and benefits to its residents; and
        WHEREAS, Magna has determined that the ordinances regarding development in the overpressure
areas should be consolidated and updated.
       NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
AS FOLLOWS:

   1. Repeal of Prior Code Sections.
           a. Chapter 15.14 is hereby repealed in its entirety.
           b. Section 18.20.060 is hereby repealed in its entirety.
           c. Section 19.76.270 is hereby repealed in its entirety.
   2. Adoption of Consolidated and Amended Overpressure Ordinance
           a. Chapter 16.02, entitled “Overpressure Areas,” attached as Exhibit A, is hereby
               ADOPTED.
   3. This ordinance will become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-
       3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

                                       [signature pages follow]
APPROVED and ADOPTED this _______ day of _______________, 2021.

                                                   MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                   By: ________________________________
                                                       Dan Peay, Mayor


ATTEST                                              APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder
                                                    __________________________________
                                                    METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

VOTING

Council Member Steve Prokopis voting       _____
Council Member Brint Peel voting           _____
Mayor Dan Peay voting                      _____
Council Member Trish Hull voting           _____
Council Member Audrey Pierce voting        _____




 (Complete as Applicable)


 Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: _____________________


 Date of publication:____________________________________________


 Effective date of ordinance:______________________________________
                                         SUMMARY OF

              MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. ________________



         On the _____ day of __________________, 2021, the Magna Metro Township Council adopted

Ordinance No. _________________, enacting a new Chapter 16.02 of the Magna Metro Township Code

and consolidated, with amendments to address development standards in the overpressure areas within

Magna.


                                                      MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                      By: ________________________________
                                                         Dan Peay, Mayor



ATTEST                                                APPROVED AS TO FORM:


_______________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
                                                      ___________________________________
VOTING                                                METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY



Council Member Steve Prokopis voting          _____
Council Member Brint Peel voting              _____
Mayor Dan Peay voting                         _____
Council Member Trish Hull voting              _____
Council Member Audrey Pierce voting           _____

A complete copy of Ordinance No. ______________ is available in the office of the Magna Metro
Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
EXHIBIT A
                                 Chapter 16.02: OVERPRESSURE AREAS

16.02.005        SHORT TITLE

This Chapter shall be known as “Overpressure Areas.” This Chapter shall also be known as 16.02 of the
Magna Municipal Code. This Chapter may be cited under either designation.

16.02.010        AUTHORITY

The Municipality promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah Code §§ 10-3-701, 10-3- 702, 10-3-707,
10-9a-102, 10-9a-104, 10-9a-501, and any other applicable law or successor statute(s).

16.02.020        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE

Magna finds that, for the general health and safety of is residents, it must identify certain areas of the
municipality where development of real property, and more specifically certain types of development, are
not desirable due to possible hazards inherent with the manufacture and/or storage of highly explosive
materials. Property within the overpressure areas may be subject to significant overpressure waves and
fragments in the event of an accidental explosion of energized materials which are manufactured, stored
or handled.

It is based on this potential scenario that Magna chooses to impose certain regulations on the
development, building construction, building design standards, and the types of land uses allowed on
properties located within these areas of Magna.

16.02.030        DEFINITIONS

A. "Council" means the Council of Magna, a municipal corporation pursuant to state law.
B. "Director" means the Director of Planning and Development Services, or designee.
C. "Overpressure Areas" means any land in the Magna Township that is located within the following
    distances from the closest of the center points identified as Area #1, Area #2, or Area #3, below,
    which center points are within the Northrop Grumman Bacchus Works Property located south of
    4100 South and west of 6400 West, Salt Lake County: 5,200 ft. to 8,300 ft. (the 0.2 PSI Overpressure
    Area), 3470 to 5200 ft. (the 0.3 PSI Overpressure Area), and 3470 ft. or less (the 0.5 PSI
    Overpressure Area). The Overpressure Areas are based on the expected force from an explosion
    equivalent to that of 20,000 pounds of TNT. For general reference, the 0.2 psi, 0.3 psi, and 0.5 psi
    overpressure forces in these areas are roughly equivalent to forces generated by wind speeds of 130
    mph, 167 mph, and 192 miles per hour, respectively. The Overpressure Areas are also shown on the
    map entitled Overpressure Areas Map, adopted and incorporated by this reference and included in
    Appendix A of the Magna Municipal Code. The three center points for the Overpressure Areas are
    located at the following GPS coordinates:
        Area #1— N40°40'38.3" W112°04'20.0”;
        Area #2— N40°40'05.5" W112°05'04.7"; and
        Area #3— N40°39'31.8" W112°06'19.8".
D. “Overpressure Areas Map” means the map, included in Appendix A hereto, designating the
    Overpressure Areas as approved and adopted by the Council. The Overpressure Areas Map shall be
    on file with the Planning and Development Services Department, or designated agency providing
    planning and development services to the municipality.
E. “Planning and Development Services” means the Municipality’s Planning and Development Services
    Department, or designated agency providing planning and development services to Magna.
F. “Planning Commission” means the Magna Planning Commission.
G. “Subdivision” means any land that is divided, re-subdivided or proposed to be divided into two or
    more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or
    future, for offer, sale, lease, or development. Subdivision does not include a bona fide division or
    partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes, provided that such agricultural land shall be
    subject to the requirements of the subdivision ordinance upon the conversion of the land from
    agricultural use to residential, commercial, or manufacturing use.

PART 1 – ZONING IN OVERPRESSURE AREAS

16.02.110           AUTHORITY

The authority for adopting this land use ordinance is derived from Utah Code Ann. Section 10-9a-102 and
related statutes.

16.02.120           DECLARATION OF PURPOSE

The purpose of Part 1 is to identify and clarify acceptable land uses for the Overpressure Areas that
recognize safety and to minimize or mitigate harms to life and health in the event of an accidental
explosion occurring on the Bacchus Works property.

16.02.130           ZONING AND CONDITIONAL USES IN THE OVERPRESSURE AREAS

A. Noting the exceptions as stated in Section 16.02.220 relating to subdivisions in Overpressure Areas,
    no lot containing more than 10 percent (10%) of its area in the 0.5 psi Overpressure Area shall be
    allowed to be zoned as single-family or multi-family residential.
B. The following uses are prohibited in the 0.5 psi Overpressure Area:
        1. Any residential, lodging, or sleeping use, whether of a temporary or permanent nature,
            including but not limited to any dwelling, hotel, motel, resort hotel, apartment hotel,
            boardinghouse, lodging house, tourist court, apartment court, guestroom, accessory dwelling
            unit, nursing home, protected living arrangement, residential facility, or other structure or
            portion thereof used for permanent or temporary residential or lodging use.
        2. Any daycare, preschool, church, or educational use, including but not limited to
            daycare/preschool center, home daycare/preschool, and/or church.
        3. Any non-residential outdoor use which would involve outdoor gatherings of people, unless
            the Director determines that such gatherings are sufficiently distanced and situated from
            structures to mitigate the risk to humans associated with the Overpressure Area to an
            acceptable and reasonable level. Such determination shall only be made after the pre-
            development meeting pursuant to Subsection F below.
        4. Any structure having more than two floors above grade.
        5. Any structure having a height in excess of thirty feet above grade.
C. The following uses are prohibited in the 0.3 PSI Overpressure Area:
        1. Any residential use prohibited by Subsection B.1, above, except single-family residences
            having a density no greater than 6 lots per acre, with a minimum lot size of 7,000 square feet.
        2. Any lodging or sleeping use prohibited by Subsection B.1, above, except residential uses
            allowed under Subsection C.1, above.
        3. Any nonresidential use which would involve an outdoor gathering of people, unless the
            Director determines that such a gathering is sufficiently distant from structures to reasonably
            mitigate the risk associated with the Overpressure Area. Such determination shall only be
            made after the pre-development meeting pursuant to sub-Section D below.
        4. Any structure having more than three floors above grade.
        5. Any structure having a height in excess of forty feet above grade.
D. If a parcel lies in more than one Overpressure Area, each parcel portion is subject, respectively, to the
    provisions of this Code governing the Overpressure Area in which such portion is located.
E. The provisions of the Magna Municipal Code governing Overpressure Areas shall not apply to any
    parcel, or portion of a parcel, not located within any Overpressure Area.
F. Approval by the Director, or a qualified and licensed professional whom the Director has designated
    to perform the Director’s duties in this Section, shall be obtained before any construction or
    development begins within any Overpressure Area or any permits are issued for construction or
    development activities. Upon designation of a qualified licensed designee, the designee shall have all
    powers as the Director, except the Director shall have the final authority to issue an approval based on
    the designee’s recommendation. Development within the Overpressure Areas shall not be approved
    unless the applicant demonstrates that the design of the project sufficiently mitigates the risks
    associated with the Overpressure Areas. Applications and submissions for such approval shall be
    prescribed by the Director or the Director’s designee, and may include:
        1. Plans drawn to scale, showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in question;
        2. the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of existing or proposed structures;
        3. the dimensions and location of parking, walking, and gathering areas;
        4. a survey to locate the exact location of proposed improvements and the over pressure zone
            lines; and
        5. any other information the Director, or the Director’s designee, may determine necessary or
            helpful to review an application. The applicant may be required to have submissions stamped
            and certified by an appropriate qualified professional licensed in the State of Utah.
G. The Director may require, as a condition of approval, the recordation of covenants, conditions, and
    restrictions by plat, or otherwise, which restrict the use of property in the Overpressure Areas to the
    structures and uses approved in this Section. These covenants, conditions, and restrictions shall be
    enforceable by Magna. The right to so enforce the covenants, conditions, and restrictions may also be
    delegated and assigned by the Director to the then-current operator of the Northrop Grumman
    Bacchus Works property.
H. The Director or the Director’s designee shall be responsible to:
        1. Review all applications to determine whether a proposed development is located in an
            Overpressure Area.
        2. For all proposed development located fully or partially within any Overpressure Area:
                a. Review all applications to ensure that the overpressure requirements of this Chapter
                    have been satisfied, including but not limited to Sections 16.02.220, 16.02.320,
                    16.02.330, 16.02.340, and this Section.
                b. Conduct a predevelopment meeting with the applicant to review the application and
                    consider overpressure risks and design alternatives. The Director shall have the
                    authority to require design modifications (i) to satisfy the overpressure requirements
                    of the Magna Municipal Code and (ii) to reduce the risk associated with the
                    Overpressure Areas to an acceptable and reasonable level.
                a. Provide the then-current operator of the Northrop Grumman Bacchus Works property
                    with:
                          (1) a copy of the application, and
                           (2) not less than 14 days’ advance notice of the pre-development meeting
                               pursuant to section 16.02.130(F)(1)(b)(2). Notice shall be given to the
                               following address:

                                   Legal Counsel
                                   Northrop Grumman Systems Corporation
                                   P0 Box 98, UT03-E2W2
                                   Magna, UT 84044-0098

                               or to any updated address provided in writing, delivered by certified mail to
                               the Director by the Northrup Grumman Bacchus Works operator. The
                               Northrup Grumman Bacchus Works operator shall be entitled to submit
                               comments to the Director, and to participate in any pre-development
                               meeting.
                           (3) Maintain an information file showing approved designs for structures in the
                               Overpressure Areas.
PART 2 – SUBDIVISION OF REAL PROPERTY IN OVERPRESSURE AREAS

16.02.210        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE

Real property located in an Overpressure Area requires development rules to balance development with
personal safety. Part 2 strives to achieve this balance in the layout of subdivisions in the Overpressure
Areas.

16.02.220        SUBDIVISIONS IN OVERPRESSURE AREAS

    A. The side yard of lots in subdivisions within the 0.2 psi, 0.3 psi, and 0.5 psi overpressure areas as
         defined in Section 16.02.030(C) and shown on the Overpressure Areas Map described in Section
         16.02.030(D), shall be designed, to the extent possible, to orient side yards of the lots toward the
         center of the Overpressure Areas. This lot orientation (in conjunction with the manner in which
         the structure is placed on the lot, the design of the structure, and type, location, and size of glass
         surfaces in the structure) is intended to reduce the possibility of damage within the Overpressure
         Areas in the event of an accidental explosion.
    B. New residential subdivisions shall not be approved in the 0.5 psi Overpressure Area, except that a
         residential subdivision partially located in the 0.5 psi Overpressure Area may be approved if:
             1. No particular lot will be located with more than ten percent (10%) of said lot within the
                 0.5 psi Overpressure Area;
               2. no more than twenty percent (20%) of the residential subdivision will be partially located
                   in the 0.5 psi Overpressure Area;
               3. the final plat prohibits any structure, as defined in Section 19.04.520, from being located
                   in the 0.5 psi Overpressure Area; and
               4. the requirements Section 16.02.130 are satisfied.
    C. The recorded subdivision plat for a new subdivision containing property in any Overpressure
        Area shall:
               1. identify the lots within each Overpressure Area, including a designation of the zone (0.2,
                   0.3, or 0.5); and
               2. specifically list those uses prohibited in the Overpressure Areas in which such lots lie,
                   under Section 16.02.130 of the Magna Municipal Code, and reference the specific
                   sections of the Magna Municipal Code which are applicable to the subdivision or lots
                   within the subdivision.
    D. The current adopted Overpressure Areas Map is available for review and inspection in the
        Planning and Development Services office during regular business hours.

PART 3 – CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS IN OVERPRESSURE AREA

16.02.310          DECLARATION OF PURPOSE

Property within the Overpressure Areas may be subject to significant overpressure waves and fragments
in the event of an accidental explosion of energized materials which are manufactured, stored, or handled.
In order to provide for the health, safety, and welfare of residents within the Overpressure Areas, Part 3
provides construction standards for all property located within the Overpressure Areas.

16.02.320          APPLICABILITY OF STANDARDS

The standards in Part 3 shall be applicable to all new construction requiring a building permit within the
Overpressure Areas as shown on the Overpressure Areas Map. Such construction shall include new
buildings and/or modification or additions to existing buildings.

16.02.330          STANDARDS

A. Commercial and industrial buildings, where permitted in the 0.2, 0.3, and 0.5 psi Overpressure Areas,
    shall:
      1. Be certified by structural engineer, licensed in the State of Utah, that the proposed structures
             are designed to withstand the blast overpressure loads of the Overpressure Area in which they
             are located (0.2, 0.3, or 0.5 psi);
      2. Conform to the glass standards contained in Section 16.02.350.
B. Residential buildings, where permitted in the 0.2, 0.3 and 0.5 psi Overpressure Areas, shall:
      1. Be certified by structural engineer, licensed in the State of Utah, that the proposed structures
            are designed to withstand the blast overpressure loads of the Overpressure Area in which they
            are located (0.2, 0.3, or 0.5 psi);
      2. Be designed, where feasible, with windowless walls or minimum glass surfaces facing towards
            the center of the Overpressure Areas. Where possible, the garage or carport shall be placed on
            the side of the building facing the center of the Overpressure Areas;
      3. Conform to the Overpressure Areas glass standards contained in Section 16.02.350.
C. Design application of overpressure force:
      1. For the design of the structure or element, the overpressure forces shall be considered to act
            uniformly on all exterior vertical and horizontal surfaces individually and all surfaces in each
            orthogonal direction when designing the lateral force resisting system.
      2. For checking the capacity of the structure or structural element to withstand the effect of the 0.2
            psi, 0.3 psi, or 0.5 psi overpressure force (OP), the force shall be considered to act in whichever
            load combination produces to the most unfavorable effect, considering the following load
            combinations:
                 a. For allowable stress design:
                            0.6D + OP
                            D + OP + 0.4L + 0.3S
                 b. For strength design or load and resistance factor design:
                            0.9D + 1.6OP
                            1.2D + 1.6OP + 0.5L + 0.2S

16.02.340         GLASS REQUIREMENTS IN OVERPRESSURE AREAS

A. The windowpane size requirements in the Overpressure Areas shall be as follows:

                              Overpressure Area as                      Maximum Size of
                              Shown on Map (psi)                       Windowpane (sq. ft.)
                                     0.50                                    9.0
                                     0.30                                    12.0
                                     0.20                                    15.0


B. Additional requirements in the Overpressure Areas:
        1. All windows shall be double glazed.
2. Each layer of glass shall be a minimum thickness of one-eighth inch (1/8”) thick.
3. The size of pane is measured between mullions.
4. Each building located in the Overpressure Areas shall be designed, where feasible, to
    minimize the amount of glass facing the center of the Overpressure Areas.
5. The maximum width of any windowpane shall be four feet, measured between mullions.
6. All windowpanes within the Overpressure Areas shall be tempered or laminated glass.
ÿ ÿ ÿ
1234567ÿ9 9 ÿ1 1ÿÿÿÿ
ÿ!"!#!$"ÿ
%ÿ&'()$*ÿ
+ÿ,))-!./0!-!#1ÿ2ÿ3#/"4/(4*ÿ
ÿ3#/"4/(4*ÿ
ÿ5-/**ÿ67'!(8"#*ÿ
9 9 999ÿ6:;<;5;=<
,>ÿ26?>,>@Aÿ,BA>?>5ÿ3A@C?2>ÿÿDB/)ÿ$"-1Eÿ2FÿCGAÿB,5>,ÿ@2Aÿ2Fÿ
26?>,>@A3ÿ%HIÿJKÿB2?FK?>5ÿCGAÿ3&A@?,LÿAMAL2&BA>Cÿ3C,>,63ÿ,6A,ÿB,&ÿ
JAÿ?CÿGA6AJKÿ26,?>Aÿ01ÿ#NÿB/O"/ÿC$P"*N!)ÿ@$'".!-ÿ/*ÿ#Nÿ-O!*-/#!Qÿ0$41ÿ$ÿ#NÿB/O"/ÿB#($ÿ
C$P"*N!)ÿ/*ÿ$--$P*Rÿ
3.#!$"ÿRÿ,8"48"#ÿ#$ÿ3).!/-ÿQ-$)8"#ÿ3#/"4/(4*ÿ,(/*ÿB/)ÿ(O/(4!"Oÿ&/(.-ÿ>$ÿS++S+%TS
+Sÿ
CNÿ3).!/-ÿQ-$)8"#ÿ3#/"4/(4*ÿ,(/*ÿB/)IÿPN!.NÿP/*ÿ/4$)#4ÿ01ÿ3.#!$"ÿÿ$ÿ#NÿB/O"/
B'"!.!)/-ÿ@$4ÿ$ÿ2(4!"/".*ÿ%Hÿ4)!.#!"Oÿ#Nÿ$Q(S)(**'(ÿ/(/*ÿ*'(($'"4!"Oÿ#Nÿ>$(#N($)ÿ
5('88/"ÿD$(8(-1ÿG(.'-*ÿ/"4ÿ,CUEÿJ/..N'*ÿV$(W*Iÿ!*ÿ8$4!!4ÿ/"4ÿ/8"44Iÿ01ÿ#Nÿ,8"44ÿ
B/)Iÿ/##/.N4ÿ/*ÿAXN!0!#ÿ,Iÿ/*ÿ#$ÿ&/(.-ÿ>$ÿS++S+%TS+SIÿ*$ÿ#N/#ÿ#Nÿÿ&3?ÿ$Q(S)(**'(ÿ
/(/ÿ*N/--ÿ$"-1ÿ0ÿ#Nÿ/(/ÿP!#N!"ÿ/ÿ+Hÿ$$#ÿ(/4!'*ÿ$ÿ#Nÿ$--$P!"Oÿ5&3ÿ.$$(4!"/#Iÿ/"4ÿ#Nÿ+ÿ&3?ÿ
$Q(S)(**'(ÿ/(/ÿ*N/--ÿ0ÿ#Nÿ/(/ÿ$ÿ&/(.-ÿ>$ÿS++S+%TS+Sÿ$'#*!4ÿ#Nÿÿ&3?ÿ$Q(S
)(**'(ÿ/(/ÿ0'#ÿP!#N!"ÿ/ÿ%ÿ$$#ÿ(/4!'*ÿ$ÿ#Nÿ$--$P!"Oÿ5&3ÿ.$$(4!"/#Rÿ
,(/ÿSÿ>4Y+T+ZÿV-%4Y%Zÿ
CNÿ,8"44ÿB/)Iÿ/##/.N4ÿ/*ÿAXN!0!#ÿ,Iÿ4)!.#*ÿ#Nÿÿ&3?ÿ$Q(S)(**'(ÿ/(/ÿ/"4ÿ#Nÿ+ÿ&3?ÿ$Q(S
)(**'(ÿ/(/Iÿ/*ÿ/8"44Iÿ$(ÿ&/(.-ÿ>$ÿS++Sÿ+%TS+Sÿ
ÿÿ
3.#!$"ÿ%Rÿ>$#P!#N*#/"4!"Oÿ#Nÿ/0$QIÿ/"1ÿ)$(#!$"*ÿ$ÿ&/(.-ÿ>$ÿS++S+%TS+SÿÿP!#N!"ÿ+Hÿ#ÿ
$ÿ#Nÿ/0$Qÿ5&3ÿ.$$(4!"/#ÿ0'#ÿPN!.NÿD!Eÿ/(ÿ(*#(!.#4ÿ#$ÿ'*ÿ/*ÿ($/4*Iÿ$)"ÿ*)/.Iÿ$(ÿ4#"#!$"ÿ$(ÿ
(#"#!$"ÿ0/*!"*Iÿ/"4ÿD!!Eÿ/(ÿ"$#ÿ.$"#/!"4ÿ!"ÿ/ÿ-$#ÿ$"ÿPN!.Nÿ/ÿ(*!4"#!/-ÿ*#('.#'(ÿ!*ÿ/--$P4Iÿ*N/--ÿ/-*$ÿ
0ÿ+ÿ)*!ÿ$Q(S)(**'(ÿ/(/ÿ*$ÿ#N/#ÿ*'.Nÿ/(/*ÿ./"ÿ0ÿ!".-'44ÿ!"ÿ/ÿ*'04!Q!*!$"ÿ)-/#ÿ$ÿ+ÿ)*!ÿ$Q(S
)(**'(ÿ/(/ÿ
3.#!$"ÿ+RÿCN!*ÿ$(4!"/".ÿP!--ÿ#/Wÿ .#ÿÿ4/1*ÿ/#(ÿ!#*ÿ)/**/Oÿ/"4ÿ')$"ÿ/#ÿ-/*#ÿ$"ÿ)'0-!./#!$"ÿ!"ÿ/ÿ
"P*)/)(ÿ)'0-!*N*ÿ!"ÿ/"4ÿN/Q!"OÿO"(/-ÿ.!(.'-/#!$"ÿ!"ÿB/O"/ÿB#($ÿC$P"*N!)Iÿ3/-#ÿL/Wÿ@$'"#1Iÿ/"4ÿ
!ÿ"$#ÿ*$ÿ)'0-!*N4ÿP!#N!"ÿÿ4/1*ÿ#N"ÿ!#ÿP!--ÿ#/Wÿ .#ÿ!884!/#-1ÿ')$"ÿ!#*ÿ!(*#ÿ)'0-!./#!$"ÿ
3[BB,6Kÿ2FÿB,5>,ÿBAC62ÿC2V>3G?&ÿ26?>,>@Aÿ>2ÿ\STS%ÿ
2"ÿ#Nÿ%H#Nÿ4/1ÿ$ÿ,'O'*#ÿ%\Iÿ#NÿB/O"/ÿB#($ÿC$P"*N!)ÿ@$'".!-ÿ/4$)#4ÿ2(4!"/".ÿ>$ÿ\STS%Iÿ
/"ÿ$(4!"/".ÿ8$4!1!"Oÿ/"4ÿ/8"4!"Oÿ#Nÿ8/)ÿ"#!#-4ÿZ3).!/-ÿQ-$)8"#ÿ3#/"4/(4*ÿ,(/Zÿ/4$)#4ÿ
01ÿ3.#!$"ÿÿ$ÿB/O"/ÿ@$4ÿ$ÿ2(4!"/".*ÿ%HIÿ$"ÿ&/(.-ÿ>$S++S+%TS+Sÿ$"-1ÿ

G?3C26Kÿ
]^_`ab^ÿdeÿfg^hÿijkliklmÿ_nÿioijoplijÿ
]qbn^b^ÿdeÿfg^hÿirklsklpÿ_nÿsopjoplirÿ
012032454ÿ789
ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ!ÿÿ"#!ÿÿÿ$ÿ#"ÿ
ÿÿÿ#ÿÿ!!$%ÿ&%ÿ#ÿ"'$ÿ%ÿ!ÿÿ#!$(ÿ$ÿÿ
$%$)ÿ*ÿ$ÿÿ$ÿ#ÿÿ%(ÿ#ÿ$ÿ%#ÿ#ÿ$ÿÿÿÿ(ÿ
ÿ!ÿ$ÿ!!ÿ$$ÿ#ÿ%%ÿÿ%!$ÿÿ!ÿ)
+*,-./0ÿ
1234562ÿ89ÿ:;2<ÿ=>?@=?@Aÿ3Bÿ=C=>CD@=>ÿ
0120324E4ÿF GHIJKHGHLMÿNOÿPLJQRJ9R
-ÿ$$ÿÿÿ!ÿ%%ÿÿ%!%ÿÿ%%ÿÿ!!ÿS"ÿÿ%$"ÿÿÿ
ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ!%ÿ$%ÿ$$ÿÿ)ÿ,!ÿ!!ÿ
%%ÿ!%$ÿÿ%$"ÿ$Tÿ$#!ÿÿ$$ÿÿ&"ÿ%$")
+*,-./0ÿ
1234562ÿ89ÿ:;2<ÿ=>?@=?@Aÿ3Bÿ=C=>CD@=>ÿ
012032434ÿPLJQRJ9R
    U)V!%ÿ$ÿ$%ÿ%$"(ÿÿ$ÿÿÿW)X(ÿW)Yÿ$ÿW)Zÿ,*ÿÿ
       (ÿ%%[ÿ
           \)]ÿ!#$ÿÿÿ%!$ÿ!%ÿ"ÿÿÿ$ÿ!ÿÿ$"$ÿÿ
              $ÿÿ$ÿ%$ÿ#ÿÿÿÿÿ!ÿÿÿ%!$ÿÿ%%ÿ&ÿ
              !%ÿ$ÿ'%ÿ#!^
           X)V#ÿÿÿ"%ÿ$$ÿ!$ÿÿ,!ÿ\Z)\_)WZW)ÿ
    ])/$%ÿ%$"(ÿÿ$ÿÿÿW)X(ÿW)Yÿ$ÿW)Zÿ,*ÿÿ(ÿ%%[ÿ
           \)]ÿ$"$(ÿÿ#%(ÿÿ$%ÿ%%ÿÿÿ"%ÿ#!ÿ#!"ÿ
              $ÿÿ!ÿ#ÿÿÿ)ÿ`ÿ%(ÿÿ""ÿÿ!ÿ%%ÿ
              ÿ%!$ÿÿÿ$ÿ#ÿÿ%$"ÿ#!"ÿÿ!ÿ#ÿÿÿ^ÿ
           X)V#ÿÿÿ"%ÿ$$ÿ!$ÿÿ,!ÿ\Z)\_)WZW)ÿ
+*,-./0ÿ
1234562ÿ89ÿ:;2<ÿ=>?@=?@Aÿ3Bÿ=C=>CD@=>ÿ
012032414ÿaGJ ÿb c8H9d QL
    U)-ÿ$ÿÿ'ÿSÿÿÿÿÿ%%ÿÿÿ#%%[ÿ
        .ÿUÿÿ,ÿÿeÿf,*g e&ÿ,'ÿ#ÿ̀ $ÿÿfS)ÿ#)g
        W)ZW                                           h)W
        W)YW                                           \X)W
        W)XW                                           \Z)W
    ])U$$%ÿS[
          \)U%%ÿ$ÿ%%ÿÿ$%ÿ"%'$)
          X)i!ÿ%ÿ#ÿ"%ÿ%%ÿÿÿÿ!jÿ#ÿk"ÿ!)ÿ
          Y)-ÿ'ÿ#ÿÿÿ$ÿÿ%%)
            012345ÿ7899 ÿ43 ÿ9ÿ5ÿ8ÿ33ÿ53ÿ7ÿ9  ÿ5ÿ397ÿÿ
              999ÿ5ÿ38 ÿÿ3ÿ349 ÿ5ÿ4 ÿÿ5ÿ8ÿ331
            1398ÿ95ÿÿ3 ÿ9 ÿ3 ÿ53ÿ7ÿ8ÿ1
!"#$ÿ
%&'()*&ÿ,-ÿ./&0ÿ12341345ÿ'6ÿ171278412ÿ
ÿ ÿ
