                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                             https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/



                                Magna Planning Commission
                                           Public Meeting Agenda

                          Thursday, July 8, 2021 6:30 P.M.
                                              **AMENDED**
Pursuant to HB 5002 as codified in Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5), Dan Cripps has determined in his capacity as
Chair of the Magna Planning Commission that this meeting and/or public hearing will be held electronically without
an anchor location given the ongoing Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which the Chair has
determined to present a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present at an anchor location.
To participate in the meeting and to make public comments where indicated in the agenda, please use the below
webinar instructions.
Location
Join meeting in WebEx
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420
https://slco.webex.com/join/wgurr
Join meeting in WebEx (download available at https://www.webex.com/downloads.html for Windows,
Android, and Apple devices)
Tap to join from a mobile device (attendees only)
+1-213-306-3065,,961841420## United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783,,961841420## United States Toll (Phoenix)
Join by phone
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)
Access code: 961 841 420
Global call-in numbers
Join from a video conferencing system or application
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                           BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of the June 10, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items. (As Needed)



July 8, 2021                                        Page 1 of 2                                 AGENDA – MAGNA
                               LAND USE APPLICATION(S)


SUB2020-000078- Calvin Child is requesting Preliminary Plat approval for a proposed 2-Lot
Subdivision. Acreage: 0.579 acres. Location: 3376 South 7200 West. Zone: R-1-6. Planner:
Shad Cook (Motion/Voting)

(Recommended Continuation to August 12, 2021) - 25340 – Rescheduled hearing pursuant to
Magna Code, Section 19.84.100, for the revocation of the Conditional Use Permit issued on March
31, 2010 for the property located at 8840 West Magna Main Street, Magna, Utah, 84044 more
particularly described as Salt Lake County Parcel 14-19-479-022-0000 due to failure to comply
with the terms of the aforementioned Conditional Use Permit. Magna and the Permit holder may
present evidence, witnesses, and cross-examine witnesses. Following the presentation of evidence,
the Planning Commission may suspend, revoke, or take other action relating to the Conditional
Use Permit. Failure to of the Permit Holder to appear at the hearing may result in the suspension
or revocation of the Conditional Use Permit. Presenter: Clayton Preece and Ethan Smith, Smith
Hartvigsen PLLC. (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to
acting on the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three
minutes per person.

                                          ADJOURN




July 8, 2021                               Page 2 of 2                          AGENDA – MAGNA
               Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



July 8, 2021                                                          AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                                       Planning and Development Services
                                                       2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                       Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                MAGNA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                   Thursday, June 10, 2021 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 14 minutes                         *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 10                                    found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                      Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Cripps

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                                               Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                            Mtg          Mtg
       Dan Cripps (Chair)         x           x
       Ammon Lockwood                                   x                     Wendy Gurr                      x            x
    Aaron Weight (Vice Chair)     x           x                              Diana Martinez                   x            x
          Mark Elieson                                  x                     Jim McNulty                     x            x
         Todd Richards            x           x                               Jay Springer
      Sara VanRoosendaal          x           x
           Jed Taylor             x
         Devin Everett            x           x




                                             BUSINESS MEETING

                                          Meeting began at – 6:37 p.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the May 13, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting.
       Motion: To approve Minutes from the May 13, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner VanRoosendaal
             2nd by: Commissioner Richards
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
        Commissioners confirmed their availability for the Special Meeting on June 24th.

Commissioner VanRoosendaal motioned to close the Business Meeting, Commissioner Richards seconded
that motion.

                                          LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
                                          Hearings began at – 6:44 p.m.



Magna Planning Commission – June 10, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                                         Page 1 of 6
CUP2020-000064 - Steve Layton is requesting Final Conditional Use approval for a Warehouse/Office
building on Lot 1 of the proposed 201 Logistics Center Subdivision. Acreage: Approximately 56.59 acres.
Location: 2490 South 7600 West. Zone: M-1/zc (Manufacturing, Light Industrial with zoning conditions).
Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Steve Layton
Address: 9090 South Sandy Parkway
Comments: Mr. Layton said up to date with project and is open to questions.

Commissioner Cripps said he went out this week and is happy with the project progress. Mr. Layton said
nice dust control, procedures in place, impound ponds being worked on and plans a benefit for the project.
Commissioner Richards said as long as happy with staff recommendation, they are good. Mr. Layton said
happy with recommendations, straight forward and common.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded that
motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #CUP2020-000064 requesting Final Conditional Use approval for a
Warehouse/Office building on Lot 1 of the proposed 201 Logistics Center Subdivision with staff
recommendations.
      Motion by: Commissioner Richards
      2nd by: Commissioner VanRoosendaal
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


CUP2021-000286 – Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation is requesting Conditional Use approval for a
canal trail from 7200 West until approximately 7988 West Molly Drive (east of 8000 West). Length: 5,600
Linear Feet. Location: 7200 West until approximately 7988 West Molly Drive (east of 8000 West). Zone:
Within the area of R-1-7 (Residential). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.




Magna Planning Commission – June 10, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                     Page 2 of 6
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation
Name: Angelo Calacino
Address: 2001 South State Street
Comments: Mr. Calacino said the canal trail has several identified for trails master plan since early 90’s
and updated a few years ago and updated again. Developing on the south bank, easement on the side, phase
4 started at 3140 west and ended phase 3 to 7200 west and hoping to get to Magna Copper Park. 10-foot-
wide multi-purpose bank. Clear grub, signage, crosswalks. If traffic is heavy will put an electronic crossing.
Hoping for approval and put out to bid and permits.

Commissioner Richards asked how wide the trail is. Mr. Calacino said 10 feet wide, showed pictures of
phase 3. Commissioner Richards asked if there is a fence. Mr. Calacino said no. Commissioner Cripps said
only a couple homeowners do not and asked if they will they help. Mr. Calacino said they all have fencing
and will not install fence and most people put in gates and is open access. Public amenity, no charge.

Commissioner VanRoosendaal motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded that
motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner VanRoosendaal motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Ms. Martinez said added three conditions of approval. Mr. Calacino said hard to enforce second condition,
but no control and posted on regulatory signs at each entrance. Commissioner Richards asked if lighting
along the trail. Mr. Calacino no lighting added, existing lighting along the street.

Motion: To approve application #CUP2021-000286 requesting Conditional Use approval for a canal trail
from 7200 West until approximately 7988 West Molly Drive (east of 8000 West) with three staff
recommendations.
      Motion by: Commissioner VanRoosendaal
      2nd by: Commissioner Richards
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)



CUP2021-000306 – Unified Fire Department (Rep. Steve Simmons) is requesting Condition Use approval
for a new fire station. Acreage: 0.57 acres. Location: 8609 West Magna Main Street. Zone: C-2/zc
(Commercial w/ zoning conditions). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Magna Planning Commission – June 10, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                       Page 3 of 6
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant Representative
Name: Steve Simmons
Address: 703 East 1700 South
Comments: Mr. Simmons said construction docs and complete end of July. With approval, building
comments to be completed for building permits, and work on landscape buffer.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Weight seconded that motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #CUP2021-000306 requesting Conditional Use approval for a new fire
station with five staff recommendations.
        Motion by: Commissioner Richards
        2nd by: Commissioner VanRoosendaal
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)



CUP2021-000321 – Jose’ Rodriquez is requesting approval to modify his original Conditional Use permit
to allow a 3,200 square foot carport to be placed on the used car lot site. Acreage: approximately 1.35 acres.
Location: 2646 South 7200 West. Zone: C-3/zc (Commercial with zoning conditions). Planner: Diana
Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Richards asked if the type of carport would be temporary or permanent. Ms. Martinez said
permanent. Used car lot will be asphalted. Commissioner Richards asked if fence would remain. Ms.
Martinez said nothing in concerns with the actual approval of the car lot will be changed. Commissioner
Cripps confirmed the carport is in the northwest corner. Ms. Martinez said will be using a screening fence
and front part was dedicated of nine feet. Commissioner Richards said along the frontage is a lot of cars to
pick up the kids. Ms. Martinez said that is the fenced in area 25 feet deep. Commissioner VanRoosendaal
asked if confirmed no electricity wired to the carport and purpose. Commissioner Cripps said we make sure
we put restrictions to activities and what can be done, maintain third condition no auto repair or
dismantling in that area. Commissioner Taylor said in wintertime for equipment, they need power to plug
them in. Commissioner Weight said already has zoning conditions we are worried about and doubling up
to staff recommendations. Ms. Martinez said is putting on displayed area.




Magna Planning Commission – June 10, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                       Page 4 of 6
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Jose Rodriguez
Address: 2660 South 7200 West
Comments: Mr. Rodriguez said it has been five years, only wants to add a carport and can answer questions.

Commissioner Richards asked for comments on questions, on electricity and concrete. Mr. Rodriguez said
goes with staff. Alex Drake is the Engineer. Currently have asphalt plans and structure will sit on the
asphalt hard surface. Commissioner Richards asked how. Mr. Drake said will be anchored and bolted
down. Mr. Rodriguez said he has a forklift, and he has to charge it, electrical outlets, and lighting.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded that
motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Commissioner Cripps said motion should include a third recommendation.

Motion: To approve application #CUP2021-000321 requesting approval to modify his original Conditional
Use permit to allow a 3,200 square foot carport to be placed on the used car lot site with two staff
recommendations and one additional condition exclusion of auto repair or dismantling on the carport pad.
      Motion by: Commissioner VanRoosendaal
      2nd by: Commissioner Richards
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


PAM2021-000298 – Dee Bates is requesting approval to amend his Conditional Use for a PUD Subdivision
to allow for a density of up to 9 units per acre. The applicant proposes to amend the PUD Plat, Phase #3 to
allow ten additional lots. Acreage: Approximately 7.51 acres. Location: 7224 West San Harbor Lane.
Zone: A-1 (Agricultural). Planner: Diana Martinez (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission, in its discretion, may request public input on this application prior to acting on
the application. If public input is requested, public comment will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Diana Martinez provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Commissioner Weight asked if there were traffic concerns with the entrances close together and traffic is
okay left and right. Ms. Martinez said traffic is okay. Commissioner Richards said he thought 7200 west
was still a county road. Commissioner Cripps said state has jurisdiction. Ms. Martinez will check and will
not move without that and addressed. Commissioner Weight asked instead of additional density, rather not
put density on this. Commissioner Cripps asked how many additional lots. Ms. Martinez said six puts him
over the eight and percentage is so small. Commissioner VanRoosendaal asked the reason for the additional
lots. Commissioner Cripps said six lots is the difference between completing the road or not. Commissioner


Magna Planning Commission – June 10, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                     Page 5 of 6
Weight said he does not want to push density. Commissioner Cripps said did make the turn and go out to
the old road. Ms. Martinez said it is 20 minus they are not adding, because they are duplex.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Dee Bates
Address: 714 East 12100 South
Comments: Mr. Bates said he talked to UDOT and County for access on to 7200. UDOT’s concern was
not have access, it was existing, and they are fine. Distance required from one street to the next is good.
Took out straight as previously asked. Density was one unit short, only five buildings, 10 units. A little over
by adding extra units. Density is close, drawn up now is the original way turned in and was subject to
acquiring the ground.

Commissioner Cripps asked how many units will be short if go back to eight units. Mr. Bates said will lose
half a building, one unit. Will not conform with entire subdivision, cannot through a single unit in there.
Commissioner Weight said to get from eight to where you are at, only half a building, he was confused and
will not matter one way or the other. Commissioner VanRoosendaal said if completed uniformity it makes
sense. Commissioner Cripps said instead of dead end, opens to 7200. Mr. Bates said will meet all the
conditions.

Commissioner VanRoosendaal motioned to open the public meeting, Commissioner Richards seconded that
motion.

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Richards motioned to close the public meeting, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To approve application #PAM2021-000298 requesting approval to amend his Conditional Use for
a PUD Subdivision to allow for a density of up to 9 units per acre. The applicant proposes to amend the
PUD Plat, Phase #3 to allow ten additional lots with eight staff recommendations.
      Motion by: Commissioner Richards
      2nd by: Commissioner Weight
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Commissioner Richards Motioned to adjourn.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:51 p.m.




Magna Planning Commission – June 10, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                        Page 6 of 6
                                         Planning and Development Services
                                         2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                         Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                         slco.org/development-services




                                                    File #000078


               Subdivision Summary and Recommendation

Public Body: Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: July 8, 2021
Parcel ID: 14-28-478-033, 14-28-478-056, 14-28-478-065, 14-28-478-067, 14-28-478-068, 14-28-478-036
Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 3376 South 7200 West
Request: Preliminary Subdivision Review & Approval

Planner: Shad Cook
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approve with Conditions
Applicant Name: Calvin Child


                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Calvin Child, is proposing to subdivide an existing residential property into two lots. The subject
property is 0.579 acres in size. The proposed Lots 1 and 2 would be .187 and .392 acres respectively. Lot 1
includes an existing single-family home, with Lot 2 allowing for a future single-family home to be built.


                                    SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION
The property is located just west of 7200 West and
abuts Sidney Circle to the south. The project is
surrounded by a large area of R-1-6 zoning, which
is designated as residential single-family. An
existing residential building and detached garage
are located on the property and will remain on the
proposed Lot 1.
        Request: Subdivision                                                                File #: 000078




                                    GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
Planning Area 3

General Plan Recommendation: Provide for infill and replacement housing.

The Magna General Plan was adopted in 2021. This subdivision proposal complies with the listed
recommendation from the from the General Plan. The general area is primarily built-out single-family
residential. The creation of a new lot with development potential will ensure that available land is being utilized
in a way that addresses housing needs for the community.

                                         LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
           Requirement                     Standard                           Proposed               Compliance Verified
                                                                                                 To be determined at time
  Height                         35 Feet                          To be determined.
                                                                                                 of building permit.
                                                                                                 To be resolved at time of
  Front Yard Setback             25 Feet                          20 Feet.
                                                                                                 technical review.
                                 8 Feet; or, 5 Feet and 11                                       Yes. To be determined at
  Side Yard Setback                                               15 Feet.
                                 Feet.                                                           time of building permit.
                                 30 feet; or, 15 Feet if a                                       Yes. To be determined at
  Rear Yard Setback                                               80+ Feet
                                 garage or carport is utilized.                                  time of building permit.
                                                                  Lot 1: Approx. 85 Feet
  Lot Width                      60 Feet                                                         Yes
                                                                  Lot 2: Approx. 119 Feet
                                                                  Lot 1: 8,155 sq. ft.
  Lot Area                       6,000 sq. ft.                                                   Yes
                                                                  Lot 2: 17,066 sq. ft.
                                                                                                 Yes. To be determined at
  Parking                        2 spaces per dwelling unit       >2 per dwelling unit
                                                                                                 time of building permit.


                                                                                                 Yes. To be determined at
  Compatibility with existing buildings in terms of size, scale and height.
                                                                                                 time of building permit.
                                                                                                 To be determined at time
  Compliance with Landscaping Requirements Verified.
                                                                                                 of building permit
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                              Yes



                           ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
A minor issue of concern is that of the front yard area shown on the preliminary grading and drainage plan. The
standard front yard requirement is 25 feet, but the preliminary plan shows 20 feet. This will be addressed and
corrected during the technical review, which occurs in the next step of the subdivision approval process.


                                           NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
None received as of the writing of this report.

Subdivision Summary                                                                                               Page 2 of 5
        Request: Subdivision                                                      File #: 000078




                                 REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
AGENCY: Geology                                                  DATE: 5.26.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval

AGENCY: Grading                                                 DATE: 5.28.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval
   1. Submit a Sediment and Erosion Control Plan including the Best Management Practices (BMP's) which
      shall include but not limited to: concrete washout, restroom facility, dumpster, boundary controls and
      off-site tracking.

AGENCY: Urban Hydrology                                          DATE: 5.26.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval

AGENCY: Traffic                                                  DATE: 5.26.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval

AGENCY: Surveyor                                                 DATE: 5.19.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval

AGENCY: Unified Fire Authority                                   DATE: 05.18.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval

AGENCY: Health Department                                       DATE: 5.19.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval
   1. Proposed properties are in Drinking Water Source Protection Zone 4, Magna Water District Barton Well
      #5. Property is on Public Sewer.
   2. Water and sewer letters will be required for final Health Department approval signatures.

AGENCY: Building                                                DATE: 5.20.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval
   1. A demolition permit is required to be obtained to take down the existing structure as applicable.
   2. A building permit is required for the construction of the new building.
   3. Please note that the review of the buildings for code compliance will be done under the building permit
      process.

AGENCY: Public Works Operations                                  DATE: 5.19.21
RECOMMENDATON: Conceptual Approval


Compliance with all current building, construction, engineering, fire, health, landscape and safety standards will
be verified prior to final approval.



Subdivision Summary                                                                                     Page 3 of 5
        Request: Subdivision                                                       File #: 000078


                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

18.08.010 - Procedure generally.
The planning commission shall be the land use authority for subdivisions. In order to assure that each
subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director or director's designee shall administer
formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application shall not be deemed complete until
the full application, fees and all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and
submission of preliminary plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.
Each process shall include the following components:
         A. An application procedure, which shall include:
                  1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's designee to
                  clearly indicate the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other
                  pertinent information;
                  2. Submission of supplementary materials, including a legal description, property plat, the
                  required number of plans/preliminary plats, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;
                  3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.
         B. A review procedure, which shall include:
                  1. An on-site review by the director or director's designee as provided by Utah Code 17-27a-303;
                  2. Review of the submitted site plan/preliminary plat for compliance with county land use
                  ordinances;
                  3. Reference of the application and site plan/preliminary plat to any other government agency
                  and/or affected entity which the director or director's designee deems necessary to protect the
                  health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project's compliance with all
                  applicable ordinances and codes;
                  4. The processing of any exception requests that have been made in conjunction with the
                  subdivision application.
         C. A preliminary plat approval procedure, which shall include:
                  1. Confirmation that all necessary agencies have responded to the requests for
                  recommendation with a recommendation of approval or approval with conditions;
                  2. Integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and affected
                  entities involved above into the preliminary plat;
                  3. Receipt of a recommendation from the planning staff;
                  4. Approval of the preliminary plat as outlined in Section 18.12.030, and issuing a preliminary
                  plat approval letter.
         D. A final plat approval procedure, which shall include:
                  1. An engineering review to ensure that the final plat complies with all conditions of approval of
                  the preliminary plat and to ensure that the final plat complies with the design standards, codes,
                  and ordinances and with minimum engineering/surveying requirements;
                  2. A check of appropriate background information, such as: lot access, property title, record of
                  survey, field boundary verification, etc.;
                  3. The collection of the necessary approval signatures (planning commission representative,
                  director or director's designee, health department, district attorney, county mayor or their
                  designees) on the final plat;
                  4. Payment of final fees and bond;
                  5. Recordation of the plat.




Subdivision Summary                                                                                      Page 4 of 5
        Request: Subdivision                                                  File #: 000078


                               PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning Commission approve the Preliminary Plat for the
Child Subdivision subject to the following conditions:

   1. That the applicant work with MSD staff and outside review agencies to correct any remaining issues
      with the preliminary subdivision plans that do not yet meet the policies or ordinances that they
      administer.

   2. That the applicant work with MSD staff and outside review agencies to comply with the final plat
      procedure prior to plat recordation.

   3. That the applicant pay any fees or post a bond to guarantee improvements prior to subdivision plat
      recordation.




Subdivision Summary                                                                                Page 5 of 5
