                                      Planning and Development Services
                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                      https://msd.utah.gov/agendas/




                        Magna Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                   Thursday, March 10, 2022 6:30 P.M.
Location
Magna Webster Center
8952 West Magna Main Street
Magna, Utah

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                    BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Approval of the February10, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes.
      (Motion/Voting)
   2) Discussion on pushing for conservation without land use/planning authority over
      landscaping requirements. Presenter: Clint Dilley, General Manager of the Magna Water
      District.
   3) Discussion on potential changes to the PUD ordinance to create a process to create owner
      occupied units out of multiple dwellings, group dwelling, dwelling groups, single-family
      project developments and other development types that allow more than one dwelling
      within a single structure but lack a means to subdivide those units. Planner: Brian Tucker
   4) Discussion on potential changes to the Planned Community (P-C) Ordinance to provide
      two tiers of allowable residential density in the Neighborhood Land Use District. Planner:
      Brian Tucker
   5) Discussion on potential changes to the Planned Community (P-C) Ordinance and other
      residential zoning districts by increasing the minimum setback from the sidewalk for a
      street facing garage. Planner: Brian Tucker
   6) Other Business Items. (As Needed)

                                           ADJOURN


March 10, 2022                              Page 1 of 2                                AGENDA – MAGNA
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



March 10, 2022                                                        AGENDA – MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
                                                       Planning and Development Services
                                                       2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                       Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                MAGNA PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Thursday, February 10, 2022 6:30 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 41 minutes                                *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 2                                     found on the State website, or from Planning &
                                                                      Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Cripps

                                                  ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                                               Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                            Mtg          Mtg
        Dan Cripps (Chair)        x           x
        Ammon Lockwood                                  x                     Wendy Gurr                      x            x
    Aaron Weight (Vice Chair)     x           x                             Melissa Anderson                  x            x
           Mark Elieson           x           x                                Shad Cook
          Todd Richards           x           x                             Molly Gaughran                    x            x
       Sara VanRoosendaal         x           x                              Brian Tucker
          Devin Everett           x           x                               Jay Springer                    x            x
      Jed Taylor (Alternate)      x           x




                                             BUSINESS MEETING

                                          Meeting began at – 6:30 p.m.
    1) Approval of the January 13, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
       Motion: To approve the January 13, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Elieson
             2nd by: Commissioner Weight
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Overview of annual and periodic training requirements for planning commission members.
       Presenter: Jay Springer, Attorney.

        Mr. Springer provided the code in part 6 for planning commissioners with residents over 5000. Four
        hours of planning commission training through league of cities of towns for one hour. Three hours
        will be provided after the legislative session. Training. Auditor. Training. Gov in additional
        required training.

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)




Magna Planning Commission – February 10, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                                     Page 1 of 3
       Commissioner Richards said he was at the water board meeting and waterwise plants and
       xeriscaping for water conservation and invited Clint Dilley to the meeting next month to provide a
       presentation to the planning commission.


Commissioner Elieson motioned to close the business meeting, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded
that motion.


                                            PUBLIC HEARING
                                       Hearings began at – 6:41 p.m.
REZ2021-000474: William Ford is requesting approval to rezone 0.36 acre of property to the R-M (Multi-
Family Residential) zone. Location: 2645-2651 South 8900 West. Current Zone: R-2-6.5 (Medium
Density Residential). Planner: Molly Gaughran (Motion/Voting).

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed rezone after taking comments from the public during
the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of
conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three minutes
per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Molly Gaughran provided an analysis of the Staff
Report.

Ms. Gaughran confirmed it would be off street parking for each unit. Ms. Anderson stated that you cannot
state they can’t park on street on a public street if they have the have the minimum amount of parking.
Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the type of zone for use,

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: William Ford
Address: 7 Rollingwood Lane, Sandy
Comments: Mr. Ford said two duplexes built in 1961 in bad shape, condense rentals and build eight plex
there, with parking and will improve the area.

Commissioner Richards asked if Mr. Ford is fine with limited height of 35 feet. Commissioner Weight asked
if six plex is an option. Mr. Ford said allowed nine, but won’t have parking, eight to fit or six whatever the
commission feels. Two parking spots per unit, 16 parking spaces. On street parking is an issue. Four guest
spots. No way to restrict vehicles per unit but restricting size of project would help. Commissioner Elieson
asked what they could do to restrict on street parking. Commissioner Weight said council would issue a
limit of parking. Ms. Anderson said the planning commission doesn’t have authority to restrict it.
Commissioner Elieson said on street parking has been restricted. Mr. Springer said doesn’t see any reason
it couldn’t be a direct request from the commission and separate from this decision.

Commissioner Richards motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Elieson seconded that motion.

No one from the public present to speak.




Magna Planning Commission – February 10, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                   Page 2 of 3
Commissioner Elieson motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner VanRoosendaal seconded that
motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend application #REZ2021-000474 request to approve rezone 0.36 acre of property to
the R-M (Multi-Family Residential) zone for approval to the Magna Council with staff recommendations.
       Motion by: Commissioner Richards
       2nd by: Commissioner VanRoosendaal
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Cripps will draft a letter to the council concerning on street parking.
Commissioner Richards motioned to adjourn.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:11 p.m.




Magna Planning Commission – February 10, 2022 – Meeting Summary                           Page 3 of 3
