MINUTES ~
ALTA TOWN COUNCIL MEETING
: . Wednesday, February 12, 2020, 5:00 PM . ae
Alta Community Center, 10351 E. Highway 210, Alta, Utah , \
PRESENT: Mayor Harris Sondak | ,
Council Member Margaret Bourke
Council Member Cliff Curry -
5 Council Member Sheridan Davis _ De
STAFF PRESENT: John Guldner, Town Administrator ) i oo To
Chris Cawley, Assistant ‘Town Administrator , . .
Piper Lever, Town Clerk es
Mike Morey, Town Marshal Lo
Polly McLean, Town Attorney ; oo.
Jay Torgersen, UFA a ee
- REGULAR SESSION . a
Mayor Sondak called the meeting to order at 5:00 PM and: expressed appreciation for those in te
attendance.
2. DISCUSSION AND POSSIBLE ACTION REGARDING RESOLUTION 2020-R-3 ae
Mayor Sondak asked for a motion to adopt draft resolution 2020-R-3, a resolution honoring our
public safety professionals and those who assisted during the recent storm.
MOTION: Council Member Bourke moved that the Town Council ADOPT Resolution 2020-R-
3 and Council Member Davis seconded. Mayor Sondak read the draft resolution aloud. Discussion
involved a question of the stated number of hours the canyon was closed. Mayor Sondak called a
ne —-~--—for-a-vote:-The-Council-voted-and-the motion -carried-with-unanimous-consent.——-—-——-—-——-——- +
3. CITIZEN INPUT : ,
Brent Pratt encouraged the Council to make it easier, not harder, to operate a business in Alta when - oo
, they consider the business license ordinance. .
Dell Draper praised the Council for proposed UABPOZ zoning changes, except maybe the 100’
setback section.
Mark Haik spoke about the Albion Basin change application filed by Salt Lake City and advised
the Council not to make any zoning ordinance change until a decision had been made. He said the
Council should know where all the culinary water sources in Albion Basin are and inform the
, public of those sources. Mr. Haik also said that the Council should apprise themselves of utility
locations and evaluate the best location for a transit station so they are ready when the UDOT EIS an
study is done. _
Alta Town Council Meeting
February 12, 2020 Page 1 of 5

4. ALTA SKI AREA UPDATE , . ae |
. Mike Maughan.thanked all involved in the safety operations during the storm event. He informed. :
oo the Council of the current snowfall totals and skier days data. He gave the Council a summiary of -
issues about instituting paid parking in Alta (attached). He presented slides that showed previously
proposed SR-210 road realignment options that might have mitigated the recent road closure. Mr.. ~
Maughan suggested the TOA write a letter to encourage UDOT to consider this a serious option... -
_ in their EIS transportation study. He also thought the TOA should support changing the road).
restrictions from 11/1-4/30 to include traction laws to improve traffic flow. He didn’t see a reason a
to change the business license ordinance; it seems simple and easy to work with. Regardingthe = = >
zoning ordinance changes, he suggested replacing the term “ski hills” to “ski trails” and changing
__ the order of external agency permissions. . ee oF oe
5,  ALTAENVIRONMENTAL CENTER UPDATE re |
/ Beth Yetter, the new Director introduced herself to the-Council. She said she has been working — ve
with Chris Cawley on a trail sign project and she is excited that the TOA supported H.B. 411... ; Se
6. DISCUSSION REGARDING UFA FEES . ; , re ree
a _ Mayor Sondak asked to postpone this discussion to wait for special guests to arrive. He suggested a4
that when they arrive, the Council would suspend their place in the meeting and proceed'with this oo
item. ; , ; ;
: 1,  APPROVAL-OF CONSENT AGENDA Oo
‘© Treasurers Report for January 2020 . .
« Town Council meeting minutes for January 8, 2020
Staff Reports ; ;
MOTION: Council. Member Davis. moved. to accept the consent agenda and Council Member
Bourke seconded.
Council Member Curry noted that he would like to see budget highlights as part of the Treasurer’s
; Report that would point out any large or unusual revenues or expenditures. The Mayor asked ao
Marshal Morey to report on the monthly road meeting. The Marshal said most of the agency
; reports were typical. He reported that the traction device administrative rule was being reviewed.
The Marshal also answered questions about the UDOT sticker program and proposed legislation
concerning our local interlodge ordinance. . .
- Mayor Sondak called for a vote. The motion carried with unanimous consent of the Council:
«8. UFA REPORT ; ;
Alta Town Council Meeting .
February 12, 2020 Page2of5 —

Jay Torgersen reported that the UFA was watching pending legislation concerning the way they
co do business, that there were 33 new recruits in their 2"! week of training, and from. November ,
- through January there were 36 calls from the town of Alta to Station 113. Station 113 firefighters. ;
i are currently undergoing ice rescue training. Jay’is working with Council Member Bourke on... : |
“-: + - gompiling call volume data from the past 5 years since prior to that they were using a different - - 7
; ; system and it would be difficult to merge the data. - oO, ee
_ 9. QUESTIONS REGARDING DEPARTMENTAL REPORTS oo ce oo
There were no questions. . on oo . .
-. 10. ~MAYOR’S REPORT . a
Mayor Sondak summarized his meeting schedule over the past weeks. He attended: meetings with
the Salt Lake County Council COW regarding UFA fees, CWC Finance Committee, UFA Board it.
with legislative update, local property owner Craig Heimark regarding a proposed road and sewer ;
oo line, Laura Briefer at SLC PU and the Shrontz Estate, another meeting with UFA management, . .
Lo . LCC Road meeting, and. Salt Lake County Council meeting where the Council approved the a
Town’s CRA boundaries. . ,
_ Mayor Sondak then reported on the temporary dog licenses that were given since the last City si,
- Council Meeting, as follows: SC ee a
oo o Stacey Mahan 1/3/20 — 1/20/20 Albion Basin co co ;
o . Hugh Ferguson 1/3/20 — 1/5/20 Peruvian Acres Rd a , a
fe) Larry Williams 1/15/20 — 2/13/20 Grizzly Gulch , y
~ 0 Jeffrey Selikoff 1/17/20 — 2/15/20 Powder Ridge i
fe) Hugh Ferguson 1/17/20 — 1/19/20 Peruvian Acres Rd : ;
fe) Joanne Malino 1/25/20— 2/2/20 Grizzly Gulch a , .
-Council Member Bourke asked Mayor Sondak to consider returning to his practice of identifying
upcoming events and dates in his report. a
. Town Administrator John Guldner began the discussion with one issue the Council had not come |
to a consensus on, which is related to stream setbacks. The Mayor asked to make- sure the
“habitable structure” term is clear and to possibly differentiate between minor vs major structures.
The example of a picnic table was brought up because it has an area for eating which prompted
the questions if it is habitable or uninhabitable. Mike Maughan informed the Council that the —
campground is a developed recreation site for USFS, and that there is an MOU between the USFS
~ and TOA allowing for the TOA to issue building permits on USFS lands in Alta. He cautioned
. the TOA against pursuing more rigorous requirements than what the MOU outlines. He suggested
adding the Army Corps of Engineers to the listing of regulatory bodies that have jurisdiction.
~ DISCUSSION REGARDING UFA FEES
Alta Town Council Meeting
February 12, 2020 Page 3 of 5

| |
At this point, Mayor Sondak suspended the discussion of the zoning ordinance and welcomed SL - , ; |
. County Deputy Mayor Catherine Kanter and UFA Chief Dan Petersen and invited-them to sitnear . |
the Council table. Chief Petersen started off the discussion by giving his history ofcomingto UFA’:-. . > 0 |
. in 2016 and “unravelling” the complex and non-transparent financial structure that he inherited... . ; -. |
He was tasked with cleaning up inconsistencies and improving transparency asaresultoffindings:§ © 2»
Co, by the state auditor. A couple of factors that brought Alta’s fire services payments to the fore Loe |
were: a new SL County:administration, the 2018 District Attorney opinion that the County cannot: Pe |
apply the Recreation Area “contribution” to pay for municipal services, unless the municipality is co
, inside the Recreation Area, and the incorporation of the Town of Brighton. — rs nr |
Ms Kanter picked up the discussion by pointing out that the situation has changed from the old...
member fee structure. When Chief Petersen said the old structure was not a fair or accurate =
appraisal of cost distribution, Council Member Curry offered that Alta’s cost could have been. me
based on a political accommodation. Chief Petersen acknowledged that indeed thathad beenthe ©.
case, and was just the kind of issue that the state auditor highlighted as problematic.
So Deputy Mayor Kanter cited some tax revenue numbers and suggested that the TOA has means.at. =.
me their disposal to raise tax revenue to-help pay their fair share of fire protection services.: Oneé- 0" =
Led unexploited source of revenue would.be-a Transient Room Tax (TRT) (a 1% sales tax on lodging). 2. 20. we
; that Alta is not currently imposing, unlike most municipalities in Salt Lake County. .Ms. Kanter... +) a:
and Mr. Petersen answered a few more questions from the Council. When Council:Member .
pe Bourke said she was not yet up to speed on this complicated problem, but that she was working ~ ma
_- diligently to get there, Ms. Kanter and Chief Petersen offered to answer further questions and try a ;
to resolve this matter with the Council. Following this hour-plus discussion htey excused - a
- themselves from.the meeting. a ts no
; DISCUSSION ON ZONING ORDINANCE CHANGES oe oO - ;
The Zoning Ordinance discussion resumed with Mike Maughan stating that half of the picnic
tables in the campground aré closer than 50’ from the waterway. The Council seemed to agree that
major versus minor structures were not well-defined. Structures such as traffic signs, gates, )
monument signs, picnic tables and fences were not clearly enough defined in the ordinance. Mike
___........- Maughan. stated that the USFS requires ASL to comply with Town building codes for structures, |
and he would like to clarification and consistency in the ordinance. Questions on this point should
~ be directed to John Guldner.and ,
12. DISCUSSION ON SECTION 3-1-2 OF Business License Ordinance Oe
oe Mayor Sondak asked Council Member Curry to introduce the matter as he was the person who
asked the Council to address this. Mr. Curry saw inconsistencies specifically in the Joint Licensing ~
section of the ordinance. TOA counsel Ms. McLean reviewed the memo she had prepared
providing background information regarding common purposes for licensing and options for the ;
Council to consider moving forward with. After some discussion the Council requested a copy of
; the most recent business license fee study commissioned by the TOA to gain a better understanding
of how the fees were developed before considering the topic further..
Alta Town Council Meeting -
February 12, 2020 Page 4 of 5

13. DISCUSSION AND POSSIBLE ACTION REGARDING A_ RESOLUTION 2020-R-2
ABOUT PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP ae |
mS Mayor Sondak excused himself due to the time and his belief that his opinion would not matter to oe |
ne people; he:also pointed out that he has never as mayor failed to follow advice of the Town’s mo
, - attorneys but on this issue he was saying “uncle”. He turned the chair over to Council Member...
v - Curry. Council Member Curry tabled this item and asked Council Member Davis to co-sponsor
ae the resolution at the March 11,2020 meeting. Council member Davisagreed.. = = a
| 14. NEW BUSINESS , , es
me There wasnone; © OO Ce .
-s 15... MOTION TO ADJOURN a re
MOTION: Council Member Bourke moved to ADJOURN at 8:10 PM. Council Member Davis =.
“7. seconded the motion. All voted in favor and the motion was passed unanimously... 0 >» ne
cate eee ene fo nee ee —_— _ ate cree ee - — ee a
. . 7 APPROVED. by Alta Town Council on March 11, 2020 oe
-_ | Piper on Clerk/s |
Alta Town Council Meeting
February 12, 2020 Page 5o0f 5 ©
