                                     Sandy city
Who is filling out this report?
Jake Warner
Long Range Planner
jwarner@sandy.utah.gov
801 562-7262

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://sandy.utah.gov/798/Sandy-City-General-Plan


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://content.civicplus.com/api/assets/2ecdf740-21a1-430c-b55c-0dbdbe47a206?cache=1800

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting AND our implementation plan or strategies were updated or
amended during the reporting period between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.




                                                                                           801
   We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting AND our implementation
    plan or strategies were updated or amended during the
  reporting period between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING WITH NEW STRATEGIES OR AMENDMENTS The following section
is for communities who have amended their strategies or plans while in years 2-5 of reporting.
You will first provide the new strategies you have adopted or changed. Afterward, you will report
on the previous progress made with your old strategies. Note that if you amend or adopt new
strategies during the reporting period (Aug 1, 2024–July 31, 2025), you must report on the
progress of the original strategies (e.g., you previously pursued strategy A, but switched to
strategy B on January 1. You would provide the new information about your plan to pursue
strategy A, then report on the progress made on strategy B from August to January 1).


STRATEGY SELECTION & PLANNING
Select which strategy from Utah Code that you included in your moderate-income housing
element. (For the list of strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code
Section 10-9a-403 for municipalities, and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
F
G
P
Q
V
W

For that strategy, list each benchmark and the planned implementation timeline(s). A
benchmark is a key task(s) to advance this strategy and should be specific and measurable.
Timelines should be time bound (e.g., annually, quarterly; Q1, Q2; 2025, 2026, 2027; specific
dates; etc.)

E
Current Status: Internal ADUs allowed. City Council considering legislation to allow external
ADUs.Year 1 (2026): Evaluate the effectiveness of the internal ADU ordinance. Identify the
zoning requirements for external ADU development by zone. Draft and consider legislation to
improve the effectiveness of the internal ADU regulations and adopt external ADU
regulationsYear 3-5 (2028-2030): Monitor implementation of internal and external ADUs.
Document the number of units created.Ongoing: Once the regulations are in place and annual
activity focuses on counting the # of units in each year, this can be removed in favor of other
strategies. However, the number of units created should be documented on an ongoing basis.




                                                                                                802
F
Current Status: Considering legislation to allow for mixed use development incorporating high
density housing in older commercial areas and along major transportation corridors east of
State Street.Year 1 (2026): Draft and consider legislation to improve the effectiveness of the
currently zoned areas and provide for higher density or moderate-income development in older
commercial areas adjacent to and along 9400 South, 1300 East, Highland Drive, and 700 East.
Pursue funding for code rewrite.Year 3-5 (2028-2030): Review and consider development
applications that comply with the revised legislation. Monitor effectiveness of implementation.
Document the number of units created.Ongoing: As the Station Area Plans are to be adopted
with the General Plan Update, continual monitoring and implementation of the Station Areas
should continue.

G
Current Status: Higher density or moderate-income residential development is allowed and
encouraged in the area adjacent to I-15, State Street, and the TRAX line. Several developments
have taken advantage of the zoning in this area. Considering legislation to allow for mixed use
development incorporating high density housing in older commercial areas and along major
transportation corridors east of State Street.Year 1 (2026): Evaluate the effectiveness of the
current zoning in the area adjacent to I-15, State Street, and the TRAX Line in encouraging the
development of moderately priced units. Draft and consider legislation to improve the
effectiveness of the currently zoned areas and provide for higher density or moderate-income
development in older commercial areas adjacent to and along 9400 South, 1300 East, Highland
Drive, and 700 East.Year 3-5 (2028-2030): Review and consider development applications that
comply with the revised legislation. Monitor effectiveness of implementation. Document the
number of units created.Ongoing: This goal is ongoing because evaluation of areas that are
appropriate for redevelopment is an ongoing process dependent on age of development and
market conditions.

P
Current Status: Several current project areas include a set aside. A future project near the
Historic Sandy Station Area will utilize these funds to create moderate income housing.Year 1
(2026): Identify additional opportunities to generate and utilize set aside funds. Document the
number of units created.Year 3-5 (2028-2030): Identify additional opportunities to generate and
utilize set aside funds. Document the number of units created.Ongoing: This goal is ongoing
because evaluation of areas that are appropriate for redevelopment is an ongoing process
dependent on age of development and market conditions.

Q
Current Status: Replace the one HTRZ area that Sandy Cty previously had. Additional project
areas are possible in the Cairns at the Sandy Expo Center Station Area and the South Jordan
FrontRunner Station (Sandy portion).Year 1 (2026): Evaluate development plans at the South
Town Mall site for a possible future HTRZ. Consider South Jordan PartnershipYear 3-5 (2028-
2030): Create and implement future HTRZ at the Expo Center TRAX Station. Document the
number of units created.Beyond Year 5: Look into likelyhood of 9400 South multi-modal corridor




                                                                                             803
and assess HTRZ possibilities for a future BRT or TRAX line. This goal can be eliminated when
current opportunities for additional HTRZs have been reviewed and either eliminated or
implemented. However, the number of units created should be documented on an ongoing
basis.

V
Current Status: Five station area plans will be adopted as part of this General Plan update.
Waiver of requirements for two additional station areas are required.Year 1 (2026): City Council
adoption of the 5 station area plans and 2 requests for waiver. WFRC review and certification of
the 5 station area plans and 2 requests for waiver.Year 3-5 (2028-2030): Monitor effectiveness
of implementation of 5 station area plans. Document the number of units created.Beyond Year
5: This goal can be eliminated when the SAPs have been adopted and certified. However, the
number of units created should be documented on an ongoing basis.

W
Current Status: Considering legislation to allow for mixed use development incorporating high
density housing in older commercial areas and along major transportation corridors east of
State Street.Year 1 (2026): Draft and consider legislation to improve the effectiveness of the
currently zoned areas and provide for higher density or moderate-income development in older
commercial areas adjacent to and along 9400 South, 1300 East, Highland Drive, and 700
East.Year 3-5 (2028-2030): Review and consider development applications that comply with the
revised legislation. Monitor effectiveness of implementation. Document the number of units
created.Beyond Year 5: As a new goal coming in 2024, this goal should be taken through the 5-
year timeline. This strategy should be used in close coordination with Station Area Plan
implementation and Neighborhood Activity Center development.




                                                                                              804
ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
Uploaded

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
10-Jun-25


ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
2152

Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
4682

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
674




                                                                                                805
From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
324

Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
The majority of entitled units reported here are located in TheCairns, of which 1,333 units
across four projects have receivedpreliminary site plan approval. The primary barrier to these
unitsmoving forward has been financing and market conditions.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
Development agreements include 215 units (may be restricted to fewer units based on the
sensitive area overly) from the Pepperwood master agreement, 18 from the “Cairns triangle,”
Compass (278), and 545 from the Centennial replacement project. It also includes preliminary
site plan approval for Shulsen Mixed Use (221), Red Sky (164), Summit at The Cairns (323),
110 Apartments (259), Sandy Station Townhomes (64), and 65 vacant developed lots. Shulsen,
Red Sky, Summit, Centennial replacement, Sandy Station Townhomes, and Compass are
located inThe Cairns and not included in the total report for The Cairns in theoverlay
count.Overlay units include an estimated number of units (9,000) expected in The Cairns, less
existing units (2,769) and units reported that have received preliminary site plan approval that
were reported as contract units (1,613). It is expected that the RCO and SAO will have an
impact, one allowing additional units and one restricting units. As it is not known how they will
be applied, a net yield of no additional units is assumed for now.Zoned units looked at vacant
parcels not in a subdivision (31-vacant lots in a subdivision counted above), the potential for
additional units from subdividing existing underdeveloped vacant parcels not in a subdivision
(50-the base vacant lot counted above), the potential for additional units from subdividing
underdeveloped vacant lots in a subdivision (32-the base existing vacant lot counted above)
and additional units from developing underdeveloped occupied (existing unit) properties, both
for properties in a subdivision and not in asubdivision (575). Many assumptions had to be made
to provide a reasonable estimate. A potential yield per acre was calculated,including a 25%
inefficiency due to road dedication, open space,actual average lot size, etc., for each residential
zone.Units reported as having will-serve letters only include vacant lotsin a subdivision and units
that have received final site plan approval.




                                                                                                 806
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
105


Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
5



Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
6


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
6 (special use permit)




                                                                                                807
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
G
H
P
Q
V


2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
E
E.4 Review the potential for additional revisions to the code. (2023)E.5 Study the potential for
external ADU’s. (2023)E.6 Conduct proactive code enforcement to promotegood property
management and to educate landlords. (Ongoing)E.7 Monitor the progress and impacts of
completed actions. (Ongoing)

G
G.3 Amend The Cairns Design Standards to include theStadium Village Sub-District. (2023)G.4
Study the potential of including residential uses to helprevitalize commercial centers. (2023)G.5
Conduct a study to assess the housing needs of certaintarget populations. (2023)G.6 Conduct a
study to determine the jobs to housing ratioto determine a suitable balance and identify actions
to achieve thatbalance. (2023)G.7 Assess the feasibility of increased transit within The
Cairns.Ongoing – Inform the public of the purpose of The Cairns MasterPlan. (2024)G.8 Audit
existing zones and zoning regulations to identify revisions that may be necessary to achieve or
facilitate desired outcomes. (2025)Ongoing – Pursue opportunities to implement and promote
TheCairns Master Plan.Ongoing – Prioritize moderate income housing along the light
railcorridor when considering rezone applications.Ongoing – Monitor the progress and impacts
of completed actions.




                                                                                              808
H
H.2 Amend The Cairns design standards to include the Stadium Village Master Plan. (2023)H.3
Inform the public to raise awareness of requirements and potential benefits. (2023)H.4 Conduct
a study to better assess parking needs of target population near transit. (2023)H.5 Amend
parking requirements as determined necessary. (2024)H.6 Monitor progress and impacts of
completed action. (ongoing)

P
P.2 Utilize funds to rehab/redevelop blighted buildings/areas for MIH (ongoing)P.2.1 House built
by CTEC and sold to LMH on second lot of Property 1 (150 W. Cottage Ave.) redeveloped and
donated by City. (2023)P.2.2 House built by CTEC and sold to LMH on third lot of Property 1
redeveloped and donated by City. (2024)P.3 Utlize funds to retain MIH to be available to eligible
City employees. (ongoing)P.3.1 Property 2 (9392 S. 500 W.) currently occupied by eligible City
employee. (ongoing)P.3.2 Property 4 (104 E. 8960 S.) currently occupied by eligible City
employee. (ongoing)P.3.3 Property 6 (9016 S. 1300 E.) to be rented to eligible City employee or
sold, with funds to be reprogrammed. (2023)P.3.4 Property 2 to be sold, funds to be reinvested
in vacant property for future MIH use. (2024)P.4 Workshop with RDA Board to evaluate use of
vacant or unoccupied properties -currently Properties 3 (8971 S. 90 E.), 5 (132 E. 8960 S.), & 7
(111 E. 9000 S.). (2023)P.5 Monitor the progress and impacts of completed actions. (ongoing)

Q
Q.6 Upon approval, finalize establishment of HTRZ. (2023)Q.7 Process entitlements for projects
within the HTRZ. (2023-2024)Q.8 Start construction of projects HTRZ.Q.9 Monitor the progress
and impacts of completed actions. (ongoing)

V
V.4 Determine a process to conduct planning. (2022)V.5 Inform the public, specifically affected
residents and businesses, of the process, potential impact, and ways to be involved. (2023)V.6
Conduct public engagement and analysis. (2023)V.7 Prepare and adopt necessary revisions to
land useregulations. (2024) V.8 Plans certified by WFRC and approved by City Council. (2024)




                                                                                              809
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
E
Sandy City completed a comprehensive General Plan update. The City started the project in
2022. The process included a priority to better understand issues and resident attitudes
regarding external ADU's. Residents generally supported allowing external ADU's as a method
to expand affordable housing in the City when potential impacts on existing residents are
mitigated. Over the past 12 months, the City completed a draft of the document, conducted
public engagement regarding the draft, and processed the document for formal approval. The
document was approved on January 7, 2025. The Neighborhood and Housing Element included
goals and objectives that support allowing external ADUs.Sandy City adopted a new Moderate
Income Housing Element as part of the updated General Plan. The new MIH Element identified
Strategy E to be one of the City's selected strategies as part of a broader policy to "encourage
moderate income housing throughout Sandy City."The Sandy City Council held multiple
discussions as scheduled agenda items throughout the year to pursue the potential to allow
external ADU's. Funding was allocated in the City budget for FY2025 and FY2026 for a
comprehensive update to the City's Zoning Ordinance that is expected to include regulations
regarding external ADUs.Six new internal ADU's were permitted throughout the year.

G
The City's primary approach to this strategy has been the ongoing implementation of The Cairns
Master Plan. Several previously approved projects in The Cairns are working on financing or
waiting on favorable market conditions. These projects include Red Sky (164 units), Shulsen
Mixed-Use (221 units), Compass Apartments (278 units), and Summit at the Cairns (323 units).
Over the past year, the City has been reviewing one additional projects in The Cairns (Sandy
Station Townhomes, 64 units) and is working on development agreements for two additional
projects on City-owned property. One would be a replacement project for a previously approved
project (Centennial). The new project would include an estimated 545 units. The other project
would be a new 18-unit townhome project.A more complete road network in The Cairns remains
a high priority for implementation of this strategy. Construction is underway on Phase 6 of the
Monroe Street realignment. Construction is also occurring on 9270 South. Both projects will
improve traffic flow, walkability, and and development potential specifically in the Stadium
Village District of The Cains. Both road projects were made possible by the City's past purchase
of the former Wasatch Shadows property. That property is also associated with the Compass
Apartments project and a new fire station currently being built to serve the area.Over the past
12 months, Sandy City has rescinded, at the request of the developer, a previously approved
HTRZ for the Red Sky project due to timing of funding being available. However, the project is
still moving forward and the City has submitted an HTRZ application for a larger project area
that would better serve The Cairns, potentially benefitting projects that have previously been
approved.The City has also recently approved a new residential project (OneTen Apartments,
259 units). While technically just outside of the boundaries of The Cairns, the project is less than




                                                                                                 810
a mile to two transit stations.The City adopted a comprehensive update to the General Plan on
January 7, 2025, including a new Moderate Income Housing Element. The new MIH Element
selected Strategy G for ongoing implementation. The Plan also includes a Targeted Growth
Plan, which continues a focus of additional housing in The Cairns and also identifies the
potential for affordable housing through redevelopment of older commercial areas
(Neighborhood Activity Centers), along significant roadways (Transition Corridors), and in
Station Area Plans.The Council has allocated funding in both the FY2025 and FY2026 City
budgets for a comprehensive rewrite of the City's Zoning Ordinance to coordinate zoning tools
with the General Plan vision.

H
In 2018, Sandy City adopted an ordinance that allows walkability and proximity to transit as
criteria for requested parking reductions. A parking demand analysis and/or market demand
analysis may also be used to justify a request for a parking reduction (i.e. senior housing).
Several projects have utilized a parking reduction since the ordinance was adopted. Over the
past 12 months, a parking reduction was approved for the OneTen Apartments. The City has
also completed a comprehensive update to the General Plan. The new General Plan envisions
more efficient use of parking in older commercial centers to create mixed use villages
(Neighborhood Activity Centers) and in planned Station Areas to create opportunities for
additional housing. The City Council has provided funding for a comprehensive code rewrite to
implement the General Plan vision.

P
The RDA focuses on two goals when utilizing RDA housing funds. One goal is to use the funds
to rehab or redevelop blighted areas or buildings for moderate income housing. The way this is
currently being done is through a partnership with the Canyons Technical Education Center
(CTEC) of the Canyons School District. Sandy City previously purchased a blighted property.
Existing structures were demolished, and the property was subdivided and improved as vacant
residential building lots. Those lots are donated to CTEC, which uses the property to teach
trades and construction skills through the construction of a home. Each completed home is then
sold to a low to moderate income household. One home was completed and sold last year. The
School District has notified the City that they intend to start construction on the last lot in the
coming school year.A second goal of the RDA housing funds is to retain existing moderate
income homes that can be used by eligible Sandy City employees. In addition to the lot being
donated to the School District, the RDA owns three properties (property numbers 4, 5, 7) with
houses on them and five vacant properties (property numbers 3, 6, 8, 9, 10). Property 4 (104 E.
8690 S.) has been occupied during the entire year. Property 5 was acquired during the past
year. It is planned for demolition to prepare for future housing project together with properties 3,
5, 6, and 8. This potential project is supported by the Historic Sandy Station Area Plan that was
adopted during the past twelve months with the updated General Plan. Property 7 (9016 S.
1300 E.), having just been acquired the previous year, was improved and rented out during the
past year. The vacant properties (9, 10) will either be used for affordable housing projects or
sold, with the funds reprogrammed for affordable housing. On January 7, 2025, Sandy City
adopted a comprehensive update to the City’s General Plan. This included a new Moderate




                                                                                                 811
Income Housing Element. The new MIH Element included a continuation of Strategy P as one
of the City’s selected strategies.The City has approximately $6,800 in RDA housing set-aside
funds available.

Q
The Centennial HTRZ was approved in September 2022. It involved one property and was
specifically targeted to the Red Sky development. The Red Sky development received
preliminary site plan approval in May 2023. The project includes 164 units, 10% ofwhich were
targeted for moderate income households. Due to financing and timing conflicts, Red Sky
determined that they would not be able to utilize the HTRZ funding. The project is moving
forward with other funding sources. The City has notified the State that the Centennial HTRZ
would not be needed.The City has recently submitted an application for a new HTRZ. The
project area of the proposed HTRZ is larger and will potentially serve multiple projects that have
previously been approved but are on hold due to financing.On January 7, 2025, Sandy City
adopted a comprehensive update to the City’s General Plan. This included a new Moderate
Income Housing Element. The new MIH Element included a continuation of Strategy Q as one
of the City’s selected strategies.

V
In the fall of 2022, Sandy City started a comprehensive update to the General Plan. The scope
of the project included the preparation of five station area plans. The five station areas being
planned include Historic Sandy, Sandy Expo, Sandy Civic Center, and Crescent View Trax
stations and the South Jordan FrontRunner Station. Over the past 12 months, public
engagement activities concluded for the project and the project has been processed for
approval. The City Council adopted the General Plan, together with the five station area plans,
on January 7, 2025. The plans have been certified by WFRC. In July 2025, the plans were
presented to the UTA Board as the first step in UTA’s approval process.Much of the station
planning area of the five station area plans are within The Cairns boundary. Due to The Cairns
Master Plan and Cairns Design Guidelines, regulations are already in place for implementation
of those areas. The Sandy City Council has approved funding allocations in city budgets and
WFRC has awarded a grant to conduct a comprehensive zoning ordinance rewrite to develop
the zoning tools needed to implement the plans in other areas.The new General Plan included a
new Moderate Income Housing Element. The new MIH Element included a continuation of
Strategy V as one of the City’s selected strategies.




                                                                                               812
4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
E
None

G
Adoption of a comprehensive General Plan update on January 7, 2025 (see previous section).

H
A site plan was approved and a building permit issued for the OneTen Apartments. Site plan
approval of the project included approval of a parking reduction.

P
The City adopted a new General Plan on January 7, 2025 that reaffirmed Strategy P as one of
the City’s selected strategies and supported the previous utilization of RDA housing set aside
funds.

Q
The City adopted a new General Plan on January 7, 2025 that affirmed Strategy Q as one of the
City’s selected strategies.

V
The City adopted a new General Plan on January 7, 2025 that affirmed Strategy V as one of the
City’s selected strategies.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
E
Barriers include: public awareness and access to information, specifically as itrelates to
understanding the permitting process and requirements; the real or perceived impacts (i.e.,
parking, privacy, etc.) that an ADU may have on surrounding neighbors or a neighborhood in
general; a preference by homeowners to use available ADU space as a short-term rental rather
than a long-term rental; completion and approval of the General Plan update took several
months longer than expected.




                                                                                             813
G
The primary barrier to completing proposed projects in The Cairns isfinancing and current
market conditions. Projects that may havestarted construction by now are on hold.Outdated
zoning tools not currently aligned with the new General Plan vision has created challenges for
some projects.Sandy City is nearly at a built-out situation. Most new projects facechallenges
associated with redevelopment, infill, and property consolidation.

H
The City occasionally receives complaints from residents near somehigher density housing
developments due to an over-abundance ofon-street parking. This typically occurs near housing
developmentsthat unbundle parking from the base rent amount. While the development, even
with a parking reduction, may have sufficient onsite parking, unbundling of parking, together
with free and legal on-street parking, creates a disincentive for residents of those developments
to park on-site when parking is an additional cost.

P
City housing set aside funds are now very limited. Some potential actions were placed on hold
pending the outcome of the General Plan update. That project took longer than expected. Land
and construction costs continue to be a challenge for potential housing projects.

Q
Financing difficulties and current market conditions affected the timing of the Red Sky project,
which was a significant barrier to the use of HTRZ funding as part of the project. The City is
currently awaiting review of a recently submitted HTRZ application.

V
Completion and approval of the General Plan, including the station area plans, took longer than
expected.




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
E
In 2018, Sandy City approved an ordinance that allowed and regulated short-term rentals
(STR). Since that time, the City has received significantly more applications for STRs than
ADUs. Several existing and previously approved ADU’s have converted to STRs.

G
Ongoing challenges of current market conditions have stalled multiple projects. There has been
significant interest in the potential of the vision in the new General Plan.




                                                                                                   814
H
City regulations allowing for a parking reduction is requested by developers in almost all eligible
projects.

P
N/A

Q
Developers of existing projects have been open to complying with HTRZ regulations to utilize
the funding.

V
The station area plans have recently been certified by WFRC and they are still going through
UTA's approval process. The City has had a lot of interest from the development community in
the subject areas over the past several years. It is expected that support will be positive for the
station area plans.




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)

E
https://content.civicplus.com/api/assets/2ecdf740-21a1-430c-b55c-0dbdbe47a206?cache=1800

G
https://www.sandy.utah.gov/798/Sandy-City-General-Plan

H
https://content.civicplus.com/api/assets/cd38d942-022e-4176-8e1e-8d484f1eda62?cache=1800

P

Q

V
https://content.civicplus.com/api/assets/8a100419-119c-4d2c-aed70ebdabc1a9b8?cache=1800




       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)

E




                                                                                                  815
G

H

P
F_3PBGByUDx1afYbIRDA Owned Properties (2025).pdf342552application/pdf

Q

V




FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Model ordinances.,Case studies for
strategies,Guidebooks for planning and reporting,Education on partnering with nonprofit
organizations or housing authorities

Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
Funding is always helpful. Amendments to the math to facilitate some of the new TIF
programs.State supported mechanisms to facilitate condo
development.Direction/assistance/coordination regarding long-term management and
administration of deed-restrictions related to affordable housing.



If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   816
Sandy - amended response in consultation with Housing & Community Development
staff

Strategy H
Strategy H was removed from the new (amended) MIH Element this year. We do not plan on
reporting on it in the future.

Strategy X
I’ve been told that the Centennial HTRZ was officially dissolved yesterday and the Sandy
Cairns HTRZ was officially approved yesterday. The Sandy Cairns HTRZ application is the
new application that was submitted in July, prior to finalizing the MIH report. However, it
required some revisions. I was told that the revised application was submitted on July 31st. It is
the revised application that was apparently approved yesterday.




                                                                                                817
