> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-08-11
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 1 
 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday, August 11, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to Salt Lake City Emergency 
Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 In Attendance: Council Members Chris Wharton, James Rogers, Andrew 
Johnston, Amy Fowler, Analia Valdemoros, Daniel Dugan, and Darin 
Mano. 
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy Director; 
Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine Lewis, City 
Attorney; Allison Rowland, Council Public Policy Analyst; Lisa 
Shaffer, Mayor’s Deputy Chief of Staff; Nick Norris, Planning 
Director; Samuel Owen, Council Policy Analyst; Russell Weeks, 
Council Policy Analyst; John Anderson, Planning Manager; Robert 
Nutzman, Council Administrative Assistant; Jennifer McGrath, 
Community and Neighborhoods Deputy Director; Benjamin Luedtke, 
Council Policy Analyst; Kaletta Lynch, Mayor’s Executive 
Assistant; Rick Rasmussen, Police Civilian Review Board 
Administrator; Jonathan Larsen, Transportation Director; Lewis 
Kogan, Trails and Natural Lands Division Director; DeeDee 
Robinson, Deputy City Recorder; and Scott Crandall, Deputy City 
Recorder, were present. 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:05 p.m. 2:05:52 PM 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1.2:07:07 PM Informational: Updates Relating to Mayor’s Proclamations Declaring Local Emergencies for COVID-19, March Earthquake, and Recent Protests. The Council will receive an update 
from the Administration about the Mayor’s emergency declarations 
relating to COVID-19 (coronavirus), the March 18th earthquake in 
the Salt Lake Valley, and recent protests in the City. As part of 
the update, the Council may discuss public health and other public 
safety, policy and budget issues stemming from the emergency 
events. The Administration may also provide information or updates 
from organizations or experts related to the emergency responses 
and coordination, including but not limited to earthquake damage 
to the City, the functioning of the Emergency Operations Center 
(EOC), City response and aid, and the status of City buildings.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 2 
 
Rachel Otto and Lisa Shaffer briefed the Council regarding 
the following issues/requests from the Council: 
• COVID-19 Updates: extension of Emergency Declaration, long-
range plan rolling out September 1, 2020, data regarding areas 
of the City with highest impacts, forthcoming information 
regarding CARES funding allocations, and update on modified City 
operations (upcoming release of the Readiness Action 
Modification Plan – RAMP). 
• Status/updates on encampment mitigation/abatements/clean-up 
efforts in the City, short-term solutions, partnership 
opportunities, contracted providers, etc. 
• Launch of the Rose Park Connect/Digital Equity efforts, and 
impending additional Wi-Fi service provided at the Sorensen 
Unity Center. 
 
Councilmember Johnston said he was aware of issues regarding 
daytime pop-up sheltering (separate from over-night camping) on 
North Temple, he commended local businesses for their own clean-
up efforts, and said more City resources were needed immediately 
throughout the next eight weeks (to October) for supporting the 
winter overflow shelters. He expressed frustration with recent 
comments made by a Utah State Representative that the City was not 
doing its part on following up on Operation Rio Grande (assisting 
with the Rio Grande area), and felt the City was left to carry the 
brunt of the burden (over all other cities on the Wasatch Front). 
He added that small businesses were being disproportionately 
affected (by homeless encampments, needing clean-up of waste, etc. 
– effectively driving business away) in some areas of the City and 
needed immediate support (City resources), focusing on the Ball 
Park, 100 South, downtown, and North Temple areas. Straw Poll: Support for Administration to provide a budget 
proposal as soon as possible for increasing services (more 
frequent) with Advantage Services for clean-ups in the North Temple 
area and Districts 4 & 5, (including additional portable 
restrooms), and begin an increased level of service (clean-ups) as 
soon as possible. 
 
Councilmember Fowler provided a statement of clarity for the 
straw poll and said this would express support for the 
Administration to work with Staff to take the necessary steps to 
increase services as soon as possible along with providing 
information regarding time-frames (how soon), and return to the 
Council with short-term, mid-term, and long-term proposals

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 3 
 
(sustainable increased frequency of services). All Council Members 
were in favor. 
 #2.2:59:00 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and Policing. The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts 
on various projects City staff are working on related to racial 
equity and policing in the City. The conversation may include 
issues of community concern about race, equity, and justice in 
relation to law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and 
ordinances. Discussion may include: 
• Review of the current Police Civilian Review Board (PCRB) 
ordinance and a discussion of potential changes; 
• 3:56:45 PM An update or report on the newly created Commission on 
Racial Equity in Policing (REP); and 
• Other project updates or discussion. View Attachments 
 3:57:24 PM Kaletta Lynch briefed the Council regarding updates 
on the REP Commission, including: 
• Commission began with six core commission members (selected to 
lead in the structure of the commission) 
• Commission members met in July to discuss criteria for selection 
of additional members, ensuring new members represented diverse 
communities, backgrounds, expertise, and different viewpoints 
• Current total of 18 commission members, looking to add one 
additional member, as well as a Youth sub-committee (consisting 
of 10 members – two being a part of the larger commission), for 
a total of 21 voting members of the commission 
• A Joint Resolution would be forthcoming for the Council’s 
review/decision, establishing the commission as a public body 
under the Open Public Meetings Act 
• Commission was currently meeting to establish meeting logistics; 
ensuring the process established aligned with Open Public 
Meetings Act, allowing for transparency, and held in a public 
platform for all to join (no barriers to access for the public), 
and working to establish designated times within the meetings 
for public members to speak 
• Requests for Proposal (RFP) Facilitator process/applications 
closed on July 15 (nine applications received) and review 
committee chose three companies to move forward to the next step 
of the process 
• Email established for the public to provide input prior to 
public meetings. (REPCommission@slcgov.com)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 4 
 
Allison Rowland provided information regarding the process of 
the PCRB, the structure of the PCRB was compliant with State law 
and provided a summary of issues/concerns/follow-up brought forth 
by Council Members. 
 Katherine Lewis provided information regarding specific 
ordinance language for subpoenas (Mayor having authority to compel 
a witness or City employee to meet with/be interviewed by PCRB 
Administrator), witnesses and City employees could be subpoenaed 
under the current ordinance language, Council having authority to 
re-evaluate the panel (five members from full board, new panel 
selected for each new case) vs. board (14 members) structure 
changes within the ordinance, and requirements/prohibitions for 
serving on the board. 
 Rick Rasmussen discussed the interview process, and provided 
the following information: 
• PCRB never having to mandate the appearance of an employee 
(exercise the Mayor’s authority for limited subpoena power) 
• Compliance for all past requests to the Police Department 
for employee interviews 
• No PCRB panel has requested to interview a witness or City 
employee 
• How often the board heard cases (to date, five officer-
involved shooting cases, three non-officer involved 
cases). 
 
Councilmember Wharton expressed concerns that previously 
obtained information stated the City could not issue subpoenas and 
subsequently received criticism from citizen groups that sought 
changes to the PCRB (for not having an ordinance that allowed for 
the issuance of subpoenas). He said having known of the allowance 
for subpoenas, the public could have been properly informed. 
 
Councilmember Fowler suggested small group meetings with PCRB 
members to review their thoughts on the board and asked 
Staff/Administration to coordinate with any willing members to 
meet with the Council to flush out any concerns and see how the 
Council could better support the board, thus creating the necessary 
changes to the ordinance. 
 #3.3:38:18 PM Ordinance: Dockless Shared Mobility Devices (Electric Scooters) Follow-up. The Council will receive a follow-
up briefing about a proposed ordinance that would regulate the use

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 5 
 
of electric scooters and other dockless, shared mobility devices 
in the City. The Council would also consider amending the 
Consolidated Fee Schedule as part of the dockless shared mobility 
device ordinance. Currently, dockless scooter companies operate 
under temporary operating agreements until an ordinance is passed. 
The latest version of a draft ordinance was sent to the Council in 
March 2020. The updated ordinance incorporates some feedback and 
concerns including additional requirements for safety features, 
insurance requirement changes, and language to better 
differentiate between scooters and devices - motorized or 
otherwise – used by individuals with reduced or specialized 
mobility, among other changes. View Attachments Samuel Owen introduced the proposal and indicated this was 
the third briefing. 
 Jonathan Larsen briefed the Council regarding the following 
information: 
• Brief timeline (Summer 2018 to Summer 2020): scooter 
launch/pilot program began, launch of survey/website/email, 
State Legislation, five vendors in operation, draft ordinance, 
additional surveys conducted, updated ordinance, and eventual 
ordinance adoption 
• Next steps (post ordinance adoption): competitive process to 
limit up to two vendors, fee adoption, contracting, provide 
resources to run program and develop performance 
monitoring/reporting, and continue to listen/observe/adapt 
• Fee structuring options: flat up-front fee, per ride fee, or 
hybrid (smaller up-front fee plus a per ride fee – City 
recommended) 
• Accountability: competitive process for limited licenses, 
performance monitoring, annual renewal of contract, potential 
fines, incentives, etc. 
• Upcoming staffing needs 
 
 Jennifer McGrath said a fee analysis was conducted and it was 
determined the program would cost between $150,000 to 
$200,000/year (to meet basic operating requirements/operate the 
program) and it would be helpful to receive direction from the 
Council on preference of a fee structure (per ride, hybrid, or up-
front fee). 
#4. 4:04:20 PM Ordinance*: Zoning Text Amendment to Increase Building Height Limits in a Portion of the G-MU Zone Follow-up.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 6 
 
The Council will receive a follow-up briefing about a request to 
increase the building heights within a portion of the G-MU (Gateway 
Mixed Use) zoning district from a current maximum of 120 feet up 
to 190 feet across portions of two separate blocks located between 
500 West and the railroad tracks (approximately 625 West) and 200 
South and 400 South. The applicant is requesting the change for a 
specific development project. *The Planning Commission forwarded 
a negative recommendation, therefore an ordinance has not been 
drafted. If the Council decides to approve the zone amendment, an 
ordinance would be drafted and considered for approval. View Attachments Russell Weeks introduced the proposal, indicated this was the 
Council’s third discussion on the issue, and explained the two 
motions presented to the Council. 
 John Anderson provided clarification on the motions before 
the Council and indicated a straw poll would be helpful to know 
Council’s position and to begin working with the Attorneys Office 
to draft an ordinance. 
 Straw Poll: Support for adoption of language originally 
written by the petitioner in a proposed ordinance to increase 
building heights within the geographic area proposed by the 
petitioner, along with a requirement that new construction of 
buildings within the geographic area be subject to design review 
and design review standards set out in Salt Lake City Municipal 
Code 21A.59.050, and for the Administration to initiate a study of 
building heights in the greater downtown, starting with the Station 
Center and North Temple Street areas, followed by areas identified 
for transit-oriented development, and then by areas that made up 
the greater downtown generally defined by the existing D-1, D-2, 
D-3, D-4 and G-MU zoning districts. All Council Members were in 
favor. 
 Nick Norris provided information regarding the GMU zone 
ground floor use requirements, and said the proposed area was not 
yet included on the zoning map (zoning was changed recently), and 
also indicated a review could be made regarding design 
review/ground floor uses and forwarded to the Council. 
 #5. Tentative Break (no break)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 7 
 
#6.4:23:30 PM Resolution: Capital Improvement Program Projects Follow-up. The Council will receive a follow-up briefing about a 
resolution for project funding allocations in the Capital 
Improvement Program (CIP), which involves the construction, 
purchase or renovation of buildings, parks, streets or other 
physical structures. Generally, projects have a useful life of 
five or more years and cost $50,000 or more. View Attachments Benjamin Luedtke indicated this was the Council’s third 
briefing, tonight was the second public hearing, and the Council 
was set to take action on August 18, 2020. He said since the July 
14 briefing, there was a potential future capital project (adding 
interior lighting to Jefferson Park). 
 
Councilmember Mano provided a summary regarding the Jefferson 
Park lighting and said there was a meeting between the Parks 
Department and the community a few weeks ago where suggestions 
were made on how more lighting could be added to the park in 
conjunction with a new walking path (as ways to make the park 
safer). He said this project had the potential to be appropriate 
for parks impact fees. He added the lack of lighting in the area 
had become an increasing concern among the community, and it was 
within the City’s consideration to provide lighting and help the 
neighborhood. 
 
Councilmember Fowler expressed frustration with the CIP 
process this year and said she was not opposed to the Jefferson 
Park project but noted no other potential projects were funded 
this year and she could not be supportive of adding this project 
to the current CIP. Councilmember Mano explained that the Parks 
Department came to the community with specific lighting options 
and asked the community for their input. He said this project would 
require a budget amendment or CIP funding. 
 
Councilmember Johnston inquired if utilities knew of the cost 
to install lighting on existing light poles on Paramount Street, 
and if funding for it could be found in the existing budget, the 
mitigation budget, or any other existing budgets as a stop gap 
measure as budget openings go forward. 
 Jennifer Bruno said there were a few available paths (all 
ending in Council action) and it would either require an allocation 
of General Fund dollars, a budget amendment within the Public 
Utilities street lighting fund, or a public benefit analysis.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 8 
 
Councilmember Wharton inquired how it might make more sense 
to go with the CIP process or a budget amendment (from a budgetary 
standpoint). Ms. Bruno said one benefit of the CIP process was it 
received review by a citizen review committee. Cindy Gust-Jenson 
added that the City preferred projects like this go through the 
CIP process, however; this one might have excess needs that 
justified additional funding from other sources and it would be up 
to the Council to discuss/decide where the funding came from. 
 Jennifer McGrath alerted the Council that issues might arise 
with moving projects forward if funding was not allocated (delaying 
until Fall or later), impacting the ability to move forward with 
studies, placing projects out for bid (for completing engineering 
work), etc. 
 #7.4:49:38 PM Informational: Municipal Renewable Energy Project Update. The Council will receive a briefing about the 
Administration’s recent efforts to align more City operations with 
renewable energy resources. The update primarily includes a solar 
project opportunity and City financial impacts for repowering 
municipal electricity needs with renewable energy. View Attachments 
 
Councilmember Wharton said he would move this item to a 
written briefing. No discussion was held. 
 #8.4:50:40 PM Ordinance: Vegetation Reduction Permits for Wildfire Mitigation Follow-up. The Council will receive a follow-
up briefing about a proposal for a new permit program that would 
allow qualifying residents to reduce vegetation on a strip of City-
owned open lands adjacent to their properties to reduce potential 
wildfire fuel sources. Only properties managed by the Parks and 
Public Lands Division, such as the Foothills Natural Area or the 
Jordan River Parkway, would be eligible. The proposal seeks to 
strike a balance between the City’s limited budget for public lands 
management and the concerns of some residents about the risk of 
wildfires spreading to their properties. View Attachments Allison Rowland introduced the proposal, indicated a public 
hearing date would be set tonight (September 15, 2020), and 
potential action would be on October 6, 2020. 
 Lewis Kogan briefed the Council regarding: 
• History of the proposal;

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 9 
 
• Multiple requests being received from the community for 
permission to conduct vegetation removal; 
• No previous mechanism to permit/allow vegetation removal to 
occur; 
• Importance of considering wildlife habitat, recreation, scenic 
values, etc. in conjunction with fire mitigation; 
• Permit program being available to any private homeowner who 
lived immediately adjacent to a property that was managed by 
Salt Lake City Public Lands (parks or natural areas); and 
• Limits on vegetation removal (Foothills up to 30 feet from 
property boundary and up to 5 feet in urban areas from property 
boundary). 
 #9.4:57:57 PM Advice and Consent: Salt Lake City Economic Development Director – Ben Kolendar. The Council will interview 
Ben Kolendar prior to considering his appointment as Director of 
the Economic Development Department. View Attachments 
Councilmember Wharton said Mr. Kolendar’s name was on the 
Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 #10.5:09:38 PM Advice and Consent: Chief Human Resources Officer – Debra Alexander. The Council will interview Debra Alexander prior 
to considering her appointment as the Chief Human Resources 
Officer. View Attachments 
Councilmember Wharton said Ms. Alexander’s name was on the 
Consent Agenda for formal consideration. 
 #11. 5:27:31 PM Board Appointment: Utah Performing Arts Center Agency (UPACA) – Danny Walz. The Council will interview Danny Walz 
prior to considering his appointment to the Utah Performing Arts 
Center Agency (UPACA) for a term ending August 11, 2024. View Attachments 
 
Councilmember Wharton said Mr. Walz’s name was on the Consent 
Agenda for formal consideration. 
 #12. 5:30:21 PM Board Appointment: Business Advisory Board – Alfonso Brito. The Council will interview Alfonso Brito prior to 
considering his appointment to the Business Advisory Board for a 
term ending December 30, 2024. View Attachments

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 10 
 
Councilmember Wharton said Mr. Brito’s name was on the Consent 
Agenda for formal consideration. 
 #13. 5:34:11 PM Informational: Update on Sustainability Projects for Quarter 3 Fiscal Year 2019-2020 
The Council will receive a written briefing from the City’s 
Sustainability Department about the quarter three status of 
Sustainability Projects approved in the Fiscal Year 2019-20 
budget, as of June 2020. View Attachments 
Written briefing only. 
 #14. 5:34:16 PM REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR. 
 
No discussion was held. 
 #15. 5:34:24 PM REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Council 
may give feedback or staff direction on any item related to City 
Council business, including but not limited to scheduling items. 
 
No discussion was held.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020 
 
 
20 - 11 
 
#16. 7:10:05 PM CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE. 
 Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Johnston 
seconded to enter into Closed Session to discuss pending or 
reasonably imminent litigation pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-
205(1)(c); and Advice of Counsel, Utah Open and Public Meetings 
Law. A roll call vote was taken. Council Members Johnston, Wharton, 
Mano, Valdemoros, Dugan, Fowler, and Rogers voted aye. See File M 
20-1 for Sworn Statement. 
In Attendance: Council Members Johnston, Valdemoros, Wharton, 
Fowler, Rogers, Dugan, and Mano. 
Others in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Jennifer Bruno, Lehua 
Weaver, Lisa Shaffer, Amanda Lau, Benjamin Luedtke, Katherine 
Lewis, Mark Kittrell, Rachel Otto, Allison Rowland, Robert 
Nutzman, Samuel Owen, DeeDee Robinson, and Scott Crandall. 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 5:35 p.m. 
The Closed Session adjourned at 8:14 p.m. 
 
Minutes were approved on Tuesday, January 19, 2021 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
August 11, 2020. 
 
sc/dr 
Chris Wharton (Jan 26, 2021 22:17 MST)
Cindy Trishman (Jan 26, 2021 22:50 MST)

Please sign: August 11, 2020 Work Session
minutes
Final Audit Report 2021-01-27
Created:2021-01-22
By:Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAA64XOLy2E3vcxXdxQm6-c3W2kd37YJn2-
"Please sign: August 11, 2020 Work Session minutes" History
Document created by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
2021-01-22 - 6:31:52 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-01-22 - 7:43:45 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-01-27 - 5:17:05 AM GMT- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-01-27 - 5:17:17 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-01-27 - 5:17:19 AM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-01-27 - 5:50:13 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.222
Agreement completed.
2021-01-27 - 5:50:13 AM GMT
