y

sandy

HEART OF THE WASATCH

Sandy City, Utah

Meeting Minutes

City Council

Brooke Christensen, District 1
Alison Stroud, District 2
Kris Nicholl, District 3
Marci Houseman, District 4
Aaron Dekeyzer, At-large
Brooke D'Sousa, At -large
Cyndi Sharkey, At-large

10000 Centennial Parkway
Sandy, UT 84070
Phone: 801-568-7141

Tuesday, June 16, 2026

5:15 PM

Council Chambers

5:15 Council Meeting

Present: 7 -

Council Member Alison Stroud
Council Member Kris Nicholl

Council Member Marci Houseman
Council Member Cyndi Sharkey
Council Member Brooke Christensen
Council Member Brooke D'Sousa
Council Member Aaron Dekeyzer

Sandy City, Utah

Page1

Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council

Meeting Minutes

June 16, 2026

Council Staff in Attendance

Dustin Fratto, Council Director
Justin Sorenson, Assistant Director
Chris Edwards, Council Clerk
Tracy Cowdell, Council Attorney

Administration in Attendance

Mayor Zoltanski

Shane Pace, CAO

Lynn Pace, City Attorney

Ryan McConaghie, Fire

Jeff Nigbur, Police

Tom Ward, Public Utilities

Ben Hill, Parks & Recreation

Ryan Kump, Public Works

James Sorensen, Community Development
Brian Kelley, Administrative Services
Kasey Dunlavy, Economic Development
Martin Jensen, Deputy CAO

Susan Wood, Public Affairs/PIO

Ryan Mecham, Senior Policy Advisor
Dan Nelson, Real Property Manager
Mearle Marsh, Community Arts

Prayer, Pledge of Allegiance, and Introductions

Council Chair Cyndi Sharkey welcomed those in attendance.

Shane Pace, CAO, offered the Prayer.
Council led the Pledge.

Council moved to Item 1 on the Agenda.

Council Member Marci Houseman joined the meeting at 5:22 pm.

Sandy City, Utah

Page 2

Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

General Citizen Comment Period (No earlier than 6:00 PM)

Council Chair Cyndi Sharkey invited the public to participate in General Citizen Comment.
Craig Ulrich thanked Shane Pace for his service to Sandy City. He commented on the
Mayors salary. The City Council has the right to oversee employee compensation and it
is appropriate for the Council to scrutinize the Mayor's salary.

Dani Poirier with Back Country Alliance, expressed support for funding the Central
Wasatch Commission and for Sandy City to remain a member of the CWC. She spoke of

grants her organization received from CWC.

Brian Noelle supported the city’s purchase of Crescent Middle School to preserve open
space in Sandy, even if it resulted to higher property taxes to fund the purchase.

Wayne Day spoke in support of the purchase of Crescent Middle School, and specifically
Option 1 presented this evening. The fields are currently used for football practices and

storage of equipment.

Zach Robinson thanked Shane Pace for his service. and expressed support for advice
and consent for Martin Jensen. He provided comment on budget line items.

Bryan Chamberlain spoke in favor of funding the Highland Drive corridor study. Please
fund the study.

Jack Stauss spoke in support of funding the CWC.

Josh Chandler spoke in support of funding the Central Wasatch Commission. He thanked
Shane Pace for his service.

Dawn Sidwell spoke in favor of funding the Historic Sandy Barbecue.

Doug Wismer commented on Crescent View Middle School. Let's make Sandy a great
place for young families.

Pat Jones commented on this evening's presentation for Crescent Middle School and
said she would not support Option 2.

Taylor Miller spoke in favor of purchasing Crescent Middle School and preserving open
space and fields.

Jude Engracia urge the Council to support funding for the CWC.
lva Williams supported funding the CWC.

Dave Egelund thanked Shane Pace for his service. He commented on the proposed
budget amendments.

Kelly Forbes supported giving the people a chance to decide whether to acquire the
Crescent View Middle School. She supported funding of the CWC and the Highland Drive
study. She thanked Shane Pace for his service. She was not supportive of the chamber
remodel.

Sandra Haak thanked Shane Pace for his service. She was not supportive of funding the

Sandy City, Utah Page 3 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

Highland Drive study. She supported funding for the CWC and printed newsletter. She did
not support any cuts to the Mayor's salary.

Mark Ciullo was supportive of giving the residents a chance to vote on the Crescent View
Middle School proposed purchase.

Steve Van Maren thanked Shane Pace for his service. He was supportive of funding the
CWC and of the proposal to purchase Crescent View Middle School.

Council moved to Item 3 on the Agenda.

Council Business

Special Recognition

1. 26-324 Sandy City Council recognizes Shane Pace, Chief Administrative Officer,
for his 36 years of service to Sandy City and UCMA recognizes Shane
Pace as City Manager of the Year

Wendy Thomas and Dustin Grabau with the Utah City Managers Association presented
Shane Pace, Chief Administrative Officer, with the UMCA City Manager of the Year
award.

Council Chair Cyndi Sharkey and Vice Chair Alison Stroud presented Shane Pace, CAO,
with a Resolution of Recognition and award honoring his 36 years of service with Sandy
City. The Council congratulated him on his retirement. The Mayor also recognized Shane
Pace with an award and thanked him for his service. Following the presentation, Mr. Pace
expressed his gratitude. Council Member remarks followed.

Informational Items

2. 26-327 Administration providing the City Council with an update on Crescent View
Middle School

Attachments: Crescent View Middle School Update

Ryan Mecham, Administration, provided the Council an update on the proposed purchase
of Crescent View Middle School. He reviewed three proposed scenarios for the property.
The City could purchase the entire property, part of the property or none of it. He reviewed
the current purchase price and contract summary on the 17 acre property with the
Council.

Ben Hill, Parks & Recreation, reviewed the utilization of the property as a community
center and park. Mearle Marsh, Community Arts, reviewed how the Arts Guild would
utilize the building and property for productions and play practice. Dan Nelson, Real
Estate, reviewed the financial costs for purchasing the property and associated
improvements related to each of the three scenarios. Council questions and comments
followed. Ryan spoke about the need to bond for this project to fund the purchase. and
outlined the timeline of the bond process. Mayor Zoltanski spoke in support of purchasing
this property.

Following the presentation, Council moved to General Citizen Comment.

Sandy City, Utah Page 4 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

3. 26-322 City Attorney's Office presenting amendments to Title 4 of the Sandy City
Municipal Code to combine the Departments of Public Works and Public
Utilities

Attachments: Ordinance 26-50 Merging PW and PU

Lynn Pace presented amendments to Title 4 of the Sandy Municipal Code to reflect the
combined departments of Public Works and Public Utilities. He reviewed the changes.
Council questions followed. This was an information item and will come back to the
Council at a future meeting for consideration and action.

4, 26-325 Administrative Services recommending consideration of Resolution
26-65C to increase appropriations for the fiscal year commencing on July
1, 2025 and ending on June 30, 2026

Attachments: 26-65C Budget Amendment

Brian Kelley, Administrative Services Director, reviewed the year end adjustments to the
general fund for Fiscal Year 2026. This is an information item and will come back to the
Council at a future meeting for consideration and action.

Consent Calendar

A motion was made by Brooke Christensen, seconded by Brooke D'Sousa to
approve the Consent Calendar...The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

5. 26-323 Public Works Department requesting Council authorization to execute an
Interlocal Agreement between Sandy City And Salt Lake County for Traffic
Signal Installation

Attachments: Signed_Resolution 26-59C - ILA SLCO Traffic Signal 11700 S W
asatch
Resolution 26-59C

ILA

Item adopted.

Public Hearing(s)

Sandy City, Utah Page 5 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

6. 26-326 Continued Public Hearing to consider the adoption of the FY 2026-27
Sandy City Budget. This item includes:

Resolutions 26-69C (Stroud), 26-70C (D'Sousa), 26-71C (Dekeyzer), and
26-72C (Christense/Nicholl) directing the incorporation of certain budget
amendment proposals into the FY 2026-27 budget; and

Resolutions 26-61C and 25-62C of Sandy City, adopting a budget for
Sandy City and the Alta Canyon Recreation District for the fiscal year
commencing July 1, 2026 and ending June 30, 2027; also establishing
certain fees and charges in Sandy City for said fiscal year.

Attachments: Signed 26-61C Final Budget Adoption (Final Amended)

Signed__Resolutions 26-62C Final Budget Adoption - Alta Canyon

man)
Signed___Resolution 26-69C

Signed Resolution _26-70C

Signed Resolution _26-71C Amended _1
Signed Resolution 26-72C Amended
26-61C Final Budget Adoption (Amended)
26-62C Final Budget Adoption - Alta Canyon
Resolution 26-69C Stroud

Resolution 26-70C_D'Sousa

Resolution 26-71C_Dekeyzer

Resolution 26-72C Christensen-Nicholl V2

Brian Kelley, Administrative Services Director, reviewed adjustments to the Fiscal Year
2027 tentative budget, as detailed in Exhibit A of Resolution 26-61C. Items listed as 1-6
have been previously reviewed with the Council. Mr. Kelley reviewed items listed as 7-10
with the Council. Council questions occurred throughout the presentation.

Council Members reviewed their budget amendments with the Council for consideration
and action:

Council Member Alison Stroud presented the Stroud budget amendment as detailed in
Resolution 26-69C, which was revised based on Council feedback. Council discussion
followed.

Council Member Brooke Dsousa presented the D'Sousa budget amendment as detailed
in Resolution 26-70 C.

Council Member Aaron Dekeyzer presented the Dekeyzer budget amendment as detailed
in Resolution 26-71. Council questions followed. Brian Kelley provided additional insight
regarding the grant management and compliance position.

Council Member Kris Nicholl and Brooke Christensen presented the Christensen-Nicholl
budget amendments as detailed in Resolution 26-72C, which were revised based on
Council and community feedback and they reviewed the adjustments with the Council

Sandy City, Utah Page 6 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

and provided additional information. Council discussion followed. Council Members
requested information from the Administration detailing the measurable impact of the
barbecue in Historic Sandy.

Public Hearing comment period opened.

Danny Richardson commented on the funding cuts and spoke in support of funding the
CWC.

Lindsey Nielsen with Central Wasatch Commission spoke in favor of continued funding of
CWC and spoke about the services provided by the CWC.

Doug Wismer was opposed to funding the CWC and spoke about the misinformation
sent out by lobbyist groups and CWC.

Pat Jones thanked the Administration for proposing a budget with no property tax
increase. She also thanked Council for their careful review of the budget and for proposing
budget amendments. She expressed support for increasing council members' salaries
and noted that Cyndi Sharkey and Marci Houseman have not accepted any salary
increases in prior years. She spoke about the need to work together.

Dawn Sidwell spoke in favor of funding the Historic Sandy barbecue.

Janet Kinneber urged the Council to support funding of the CWC.

Zach Robinson was opposed to taking fund savings for Fire fleet and using those funds for
other items. He supported budget amendment proposals for funding a grant writer, the
chamber remodel and senior center equipment fund. He also expressed support for

funding the CWC.

Laurie Wilson was supportive of keeping the Mayor salary intact. She also commented
on the animosity in the city government.

Mike Marker was supportive of funding the CWC.

Laurel Livezeg thanked the Council for not raising the Council's salary and for not raising
property tax. She was opposed to lowering the mayors salary. She expressed support for
five minute public comment time and the funding for the CWC. She spoke about the

Council and Mayor working together.

Sandra Haak spoke in support of funding the Historic Sandy barbecue. The event brings
residents together.

Jack Stauss with Save our Canyons, expressed support for funding the CWC.
John Adams expressed support for funding the CWC.

Andrei Tarassov spoke in support of the funding the CWC and was opposed to cuts to the
Mayor's salary.

Public Hearing comment period closed.

Mayor Zoltanski thanked all who commented this evening and their participation in the
budget process. She provided comments on the proposed budget amendments.

Sandy City, Utah Page7 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

Council discussion followed.
Council voted on the proposed budget amendments.

A motion was made by Kris Nicholl, seconded by Alison Stroud to adopt
Resolution 26-69 C, the Stroud Amendment...The motion carried by the following
roll call vote:

Yes: 6 Alison Stroud
Kris Nicholl
Marci Houseman
Brooke Christensen
Brooke D'Sousa
Aaron Dekeyzer

No: 1 Cyndi Sharkey

A motion was made by Kris Nicholl, seconded by Brooke D'Sousa to adopt
Resolution 26-70C, the D'Sousa Amendment...The motion carried by the following
roll call vote:

Yes: 7 Alison Stroud
Kris Nicholl
Marci Houseman
Cyndi Sharkey
Brooke Christensen
Brooke D'Sousa
Aaron Dekeyzer

No: 0

Council discussed the Dekeyzer amendment to see if there was support to make this
position a one year contracted position.

A motion was made by Brooke Christensen, seconded by Aaron Dekeyzer to
adopt Resolution 26-71C, the Dekeyzer Amendment, as amended this evening for
a one-year contracted position...The motion carried by the following roll call
vote:

Yes: 4 Alison Stroud
Brooke Christensen
Brooke D'Sousa
Aaron Dekeyzer

No: 3 Kris Nicholl
Marci Houseman
Cyndi Sharkey

Council discussion on the motion occurred.

A motion was made by Brooke Christensen, seconded by Kris Nicholl to adopt
Resolution 26-72C, the Christensen-Nicholl Amendment as amended and adjusted
this evening...The motion carried by the following roll call vote:

Yes: 5 Kris Nicholl

Sandy City, Utah Page 8 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

Marci Houseman
Cyndi Sharkey
Brooke Christensen
Brooke D'Sousa

No: 2. Alison Stroud
Aaron Dekeyzer

A motion was made by Brooke Christensen, seconded by Brooke D'Sousa,
adopting Resolution 26-61C, a resolution adopting the Sandy City Annual Budget
for the Fiscal Year commencing July 1, 2026 and ending June 30, 2027 with the
amendment that the PIO position's salary and benefits will be fully funded in the
newly created Communications Department and closing the public hearing for
the FY 2027 budget...The motion carried by the following roll call vote:

Yes: 7 Alison Stroud
Kris Nicholl
Marci Houseman
Cyndi Sharkey
Brooke Christensen
Brooke D'Sousa
Aaron Dekeyzer

No: 0

A motion was made by Alison Stroud, seconded by Brooke Christensen to adopt
Resolution 26-62C, a resolution adopting the Alta Canyon Recreation District
Annual Budget for the fiscal year commencing July 1, 2026 and ending June 30,
2027...The motion carried by the following roll call vote:

Yes: 7 Alison Stroud
Kris Nicholl
Marci Houseman
Cyndi Sharkey
Brooke Christensen
Brooke D'Sousa
Aaron Dekeyzer

No: 0)

Following the votes on the motions, Council moved to Item 7 on the Agenda.

Council Voting Items

Sandy City, Utah Page 9 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

7. 26-329 Mayor Zoltanski recommending for Council Advice and Consent the
appointment of Martin Jensen as the Sandy City Chief Administrative
Officer

Attachments: Signed Resolution 26-66C - Martin Jensen CAO
Chief Administrative Officer (PDF)
Resolution 26-66C

Mayor Zoltanski recommended Martin Jensen for the position of Chief Administrative
Officer and was seeking Advice and Consent from the Council.

Public comment opened.
Sandra Haak was supportive of Martin Jensen for the CAO position.
Public comment closed.

A motion was made by Brooke D'Sousa seconded by Kris Nicholl to adopt
Resolution 26-66C, a resolution of the Sandy City Council consenting to the
appointment of Martin Jensen as Chief Administrative Officer of Sandy City...The
motion carried by the following roll call vote:

Yes: 7- Alison Stroud
Kris Nicholl
Marci Houseman
Cyndi Sharkey
Brooke Christensen
Brooke D'Sousa
Aaron Dekeyzer

Nonvoting: 0
Standing Reports
Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Office Director's Report

Dustin Fratto, Council Director, provided an update on the interview process for the
Council Communications Director. He congratulated Martin Jensen on his position of
Chief Administrative Officer.

Council Member Business
Council Member Alison Stroud said the Historic Sandy barbecue was a great event. She

attended the media event for the ebikes and the Plein Air event which had a great turnout.
She also attended the Hale Centre Theatre Cultural Celebration.

Council Member Brooke D'Sousa thanked the Administration for coordinating the
community barbecue in Historic Sandy.

Sandy City, Utah Page 10 Printed on 6/25/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes June 16, 2026

Mayor's Report

Mayor Zoltanski spoke about the Juneteenth observation and the diverse community in
Sandy City. She talked about the media event to discuss the dangers of e-bikes. New
signage has been posted in Dimple Dell and Sandy City parks about rules for ebike use
in the parks. She attended a graduation for first responders for the fire department and
also attended a chalk festival in a Sandy neighborhood. She attended the Blessed
Sacrament Rummage sale coordinated by the Council of Catholic Woment at the parish.
Proceeds are donated back to the community. The Historic Sandy Barbecue was a
wonderful event with 450 meals served.

CAO Report
Shane Pace, CAO, invited the Council to a Police Swearing In on Thursday at 3:00 pm in
the Multi Purpose Room. He thanked the Council for the recognition. It has been an honor
to serve Sandy City and he cherished every moment with the City.

Adjournment

Council unanimously agreed to adjourn the meeting at 11:02 pm.

Sandy City, Utah Page 11 Printed on 6/25/2026


