y

sandy

HEART OF THE WASATCH

Sandy City, Utah

Meeting Minutes

City Council

Ryan Mecham, District 1
Alison Stroud, District 2
Zach Robinson, District 3
Scott Earl, District 4
Brooke D'Sousa, At-large
Marci Houseman, At-large
Cyndi Sharkey, At-large

10000 Centennial Parkway
Sandy, UT 84070
Phone: 801-568-7141

Tuesday, November 7, 2023

5:15 PM

City Hall & Online

5:15 Council Meeting

Present: 7 -

Work Session - *Amended Agenda*

Council Member Alison Stroud
Council Member Zach Robinson
Council Member Marci Houseman
Council Member Cyndi Sharkey
Council Member Ryan Mecham
Council Member Brooke D'Sousa
Council Member Scott Earl

Council Staff in Attendance:

Dustin Fratto, Council Director

Justin Sorenson, Assistant Director
Christine Edwards, Council Clerk

Liz Theriault, Policy & Comms Analyst
Tracy Cowdell, Council Attorney

Administration in Attendance:

Mayor Monica Zoltanski

Shane Pace, CAO

Lynn Pace, City Attorney

Jeff Bassett, Fire Chief

Greg Severson, Police

Tom Ward, Public Utilities

Dan Medina, Parks & Recreation

Mike Gladbach, Public Works

James Sorensen, Community Development
Kasey Dunlavy, Economic Development
Jared Gerber, Deputy CAO

Kim Bell, Deputy Mayor

Susan Wood, PIO

Sandy City, Utah

Page1

Printed on 11/21/2023


City Council Meeting Minutes November 7, 2023

Prayer / Pledge of Allegiance

Council Chair Brooke D'Sousa welcomed those in attendance. The Chair welcomed Girl
Scout Troop 294 to this evening's Council Meeting.

Taylor Wicker with Girl Scout Troop 294 offered the Prayer
Girl Scout Troop 294 led the Presentation of the Colors and the Pledge.

Council moved to Item 2 on the Agenda: Special Recognition.

Citizen Comment Procedure

1. 23-437 General Citizen Comment Period (No earlier than 6:00 PM)

Attachments: Click here to eComment on this item

Council Chair Brooke D'Sousa invited the public to participate in General Citizen
Comment.

Mr. Steve Van Maren commented on the Public Hearing for the GO bond for Fire Station
31. Residents deserve to know the terms of the revenue bond progress. He also
mentioned fee increases by South Valley Sewer District which he is not in support of.
Public comment closed.

Council moved to Agenda Item 5.

Work Session Items

Special Recognition

2. 23-436 Special Recognition of Girl Scouts Troop 294 Members Madeline Sission
and Taylor Wicker for achieving their Bronze Award

Attachments: Bronze Award - Taylor and Madeleine (1)

Council and Administration recognized Madeleine Sisson and Taylor Wicker for earning
their Bronze Award. They presented their project to the Council and Administration. The
Girl Scouts built bird houses and installed the bird houses at the Sego Lily Gardens. The
Bronze Award and Girl Scouts is all about making the World a better place. The Council
and Mayor Zoltanski offered remarks and congratulations to the girl scouts on achieving
the Bronze Award. The Council presented each girl in the Troop 294 with a US flag and a
Sandy City pin. The Mayor presented certificates of achievement to the two girl scouts.

Consent Calendar

Approval of the Consent Calendar

A motion was made by Zach Robinson, seconded by Marci Houseman, to approve
the Consent Calendar... The motion carried by a unanimous voice vote.

Following the vote on the motion, Council moved Standing Reports.

Sandy City, Utah Page 2 Printed on 11/21/2023


City Council Meeting Minutes November 7, 2023
3. 23-428 Approval of the October 10, 2023 Draft Minutes
Attachments: October 10, 2023 Draft Minutes
Item approved.
4, 23-431 Approval of the October 24, 2023 Draft Minutes
Attachments: October 24, 2023 Draft Minutes

Item approved.

Public Meeting Items (No earlier than 6:00 PM)

Sandy City, Utah

Page 3

Printed on 11/21/2023


City Council Meeting Minutes November 7, 2023

5. 23-435 Public meeting to hear arguments for and against the issuance of not more
than $21,000,000 of General Obligation Bonds to finance the construction
and equipping of a fire station

Attachments: Click here to eComment on this item
G.O. Bond Voter Information Pamphlet VIP. pdf
Argument for Posting - Sandy City GO Election 2023.pdf
Timeline GO Election 2023.pdf

Public Meeting: Brian Kelly, Administrative Services Director reviewed the General
Obligation Bond election timeline. A voter information pamphlet was sent to all Sandy
City households with a registered voter. Mr. Kelley read the Argument in favor of the GO
Bond to the Council. No argument against the GO bond was submitted during the
permitted timeframe. This item will be voted on by the registered voters in Sandy City on
November 21, 2023. The GO Bond revenues will fund the construction and equipment for
the new Fire Station 31.

Council Chair D'Sousa invited the public to participate in the public comment period:
Public Meeting comment period opened:

Ms. Cathy Spuck expressed support for the GO Bond to rebuild Fire Station 31 and
administrative offices for the fire department personnel. She mentioned that she toured
the current fire station 31 and observed the issues with the facility: leaks, cracks in the
foundation, minimal office space. The bond funds a need in our community and enhances
the public safety for all residents. We cannot afford to not replace this facility. We need a
new fire station so that our fire department can effectively respond to the residents.
Please vote Yes on the GO Bond on the ballot on election day.

Mr. Steve Van Maren is in favor of the GO Bond. He expressed concerns that the costs
associated with building a new fire station are not finalized and also was concerned that
the location of the fire station had changed.

Ms. Sue Zabel agreed with the comments in support of the GO bond and is in favor of the
bond. She expressed concerns with how long it has taken to get to this point and thought
it should have been done sooner. She is in support of the new fire station. She wondered
if the property taxes from all the new development would help pay for the new station.

Public meeting comment period closed.

Following the public comment period, Council moved to Adjournment.

Standing Reports

Sandy City, Utah Page 4 Printed on 11/21/2023


City Council Meeting Minutes November 7, 2023

Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Office Director's Report

Dustin Fratto, Council Director provided an update on the technical issues that occurred
during this evening's meeting. He was confident that the meeting recording was working
tonight. This Friday, the Council will conduct selection interviews for the management
consulting company to conduct the study on the fire department. He provided details on
the selection process.

Council moved to Agenda Item 1 - General Citizen Comment.

Council Member Business

Council Member Zach Robinson asked for feedback from the Council Members. He is
currently working on the No Solicitation and Short Term Rental issues. Both issues are
very complex and he will need more time to continue to work with staff on these issues.
Council was supportive of Council Member Robinson continuing to work with staff on both
items.

Council Member Marci Houseman welcomed the City of Cottonwood Heights to the South
Valley Chamber. Dana Reid is now the Director of Member Relations. The Chamber does
incredible work and she is grateful that Sandy City is a member.

Council Member Scott Earl thanked Public Works, Administration and Council Member
Stroud for joining him at the Wasatch Front Regional Council meeting recently. He
provided updates and spoke about city park trails and upgrades.

Council Member Cyndi Sharkey spoke about the recent tour of Blessed Sacrament to
learn about their new STEM educational curriculum. She provided updates from the
General Plan Transportation Subcommittee. The Titan Awards was a wonderful event and
recognized important community stakeholders. It was a pleasure to be in attendance
representing Sandy City.

Council Member Zach Robinson provided an additional update from the Sandy Arts Guild.
The recent production was very successful and a wonderful performance.

Council Member D'Sousa thanked the Public Works staff for their responsiveness to a
resident's concern about a dangerous sidewalk. She spoke about the grand opening of
the Infinity Jewels business in Sandy City.

Mayor's Report

Mayor Zoltanski mentioned that the City is running a blanket and coat drive. Please bring
in your blankets and coats - there are bins located in City Hall. The City recently donated
decommissioned fire equipment to the fire department located in Central Mexico. The
League of Women Voters recently held a candidates’ forum at City Hall. It was a great
opportunity to listen and meet the candidates. She reminded the public to vote in the
upcoming municipal election. The Turkey Trot 5K Race is coming up. Please join us. The
Human 5K Race will take place on Thanksgiving Day at the Promenade. The Wasatch
Choice Vision Workshop was a great meeting. All city employees recently received
certificates for their Thanksgiving Day meal. She acknowledged and thanked the South
Valley Chamber for coordinating the recent Titan Awards event - it was a wonderful event.

Sandy City, Utah Page 5 Printed on 11/21/2023


City Council Meeting Minutes November 7, 2023

CAO Report

Shane Pace, CAO, provided some updates on staffing. Kim Bell, Deputy Mayor provided
an update about the upcoming groundbreaking of the new education facility at the Hale
Center Theatre. The theatre recently provided a show to accommodate those with
sensory sensitivity. The show was a huge success. The 2024 season will be coming out
soon. Mr. Pace spoke about a letter he received from a resident commending the fire
department personnel for their quick and life-saving responsiveness.

Council moved to the Council Director for his report.

Adjournment

Council unanimously agreed to adjourn the Council meeting at 6:30 pm.

Sandy City, Utah Page 6 Printed on 11/21/2023


