y

sandy

HEART OF THE WASATCH

Sandy City, Utah

Meeting Minutes

City Council

Brooke Christensen, District 1
Alison Stroud, District 2
Kris Nicholl, District 3
Marci Houseman, District 4
Aaron Dekeyzer, At-large
Brooke D'Sousa, At -large
Cyndi Sharkey, At-large

10000 Centennial Parkway
Sandy, UT 84070
Phone: 801-568-7141

Tuesday, April 28, 2026

5:15 PM

Council Chambers

5:15 Council Meeting

Present:

7- Council Member Alison Stroud
Council Member Kris Nicholl
Council Member Marci Houseman
Council Member Cyndi Sharkey
Council Member Brooke Christensen
Council Member Brooke D'Sousa
Council Member Aaron Dekeyzer

Council Staff in Attendance

Dustin Fratto, Council Director

Justin Sorenson, Assistant Director

Chris Edwards, Council Clerk

Liz Theriault, Sr. Policy and Comms Analyst
Tracy Cowdell, Council Attorney

Administration in Attendance

Mayor Zoltanski

Shane Pace, CAO

Jeff Robinson, Deputy City Attorney
Ryan McConaghie, Fire

Jeff Nigbur, Police

Tom Ward, Public Utilities

Ben Hill, Parks & Recreation

Ryan Kump, Public Works

James Sorensen, Community Development
Brian Kelley, Administrative Services
Susan Wood, Public Affairs/PIO
Ryan Mecham, Senior Policy Advisor

Sandy City, Utah

Page 1

Printed on 5/27/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes April 28, 2026

Prayer, Pledge of Allegiance, and Introductions

Council Member Cyndi Sharkey welcomed those in attendance. Council will be
participating in a budget training and workshop this evening.

Council Member Brooke Christensen offered the Prayer.
Council led the Pledge.

Council moved to Item 1 on the Agenda.

General Citizen Comment Period (Will be held at the conclusion of the Work Session)

Council Chair Cyndi Sharkey invited the public to participate in General Citizen Comment.
Sandra Haak with the Dimple Dell Preservation Committee spoke about the volunteer
turnout for their Earth Day community event. The committee may change the date of their
Earth Day project so it does not conflict with the Sandy City Beautification Day event.

Public comment closed.

Council moved to Standing Reports.

Work Session

Sandy City, Utah Page 2 Printed on 5/27/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes April 28, 2026

1. 26-243 The City Council is Receiving Training from Nakamura & Associates on
Utah Budget & Finance in a Council/Mayor form of Municipal Government

Attachments: Budget Training Presentation

Dustin Fratto, Council Executive Director, introduced Kerri and Frank Nakamura with
Kerri Nakamura and Associates, who provided the Council with a training on municipal
budgetary training.

Kerri Nakamura provided an overview to the Council of their experience and background.
Frank Nakamura spent 32 years in the Council-Mayor form of government as the city
attorney. He spoke highly of this form of government. He reviewed the roles of the
legislative and executive branch in our form of municipal government. The legislative sets
the policy and the executive branch executes the policy. He reviewed the authority of the
Council and the limitations to the Council's authority.

Following remarks, Ms. Nakamura led the Council in a training workshop on municipal
budget and finance in a Council/Mayor form of government with an emphasis on creating
transparent budgets that reflect policy goals. They provided an overview of the Council's
powers and duties, budget policy, budgeting basics and resources, and how a
community establishes budget policy. They provided an in depth review of the Utah
Municipal Budget Process, monitoring the budget, municipal revenue, property taxes and
truth in taxation process. They emphasized the importance of planning. A policy-driven
budget must be a year-round endeavor and setting budget policy was the most important
role of the City Council. They reviewed the authority and limitations of the Council and the
city's guiding principles: Protect, Connect, Create.The governing body should provide
legislative policy direction to the city manager and mayor and reaffirm the policy direction
annually. Tools used to establish policy direction include: strategic plan, policy
statement, legislative intent and goal statement. Policy direction should be intentional,
meet community needs, measurable, and achievable. Policy should drive the numbers.
The numbers should not drive the policy. Ms. Nakamura then reviewed budgeting basics,
government resources, balanced budgets, and fund types (governmental vs proprietary).
Most municipal budgets include multiple fund types. Council budget amendments were
required to move money from one appropriation unit (department) to another in the general
fund. She reviewed debt service funds, special revenue funds, capital projects fund,
enterprise funds, and provided examples of projects that would fall into the capital
projects fund. They reviewed the municipal budget process and timeline, administrative
and council responsibilities, the importance of transparency, and effective ways to
monitor the expense budget and the implementation of policy. They also reviewed sales
tax rates and revenues, resort community tax, municipal transient room tax, gas tax, and
local transit and transportation funding opportunities. Council questions and comments
occurred throughout the presentation.

Council convened a recess at 7:27 pm.
Council reconvened at 7:34 pm.

Following the recess, Council moved to General Citizen Comments.

Council Business

Sandy City, Utah Page 3 Printed on 5/27/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes April 28, 2026

2. 26-244 Possible Closed Session: character, professional competence, or physical
or mental health of an individual.

The Council convened a closed session at 9:21 pm in the Council Conference Room to
discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
individual. The council meeting adjourned immediately following the closed session.

A motion was made by Cyndi Sharkey seconded by Marci Houseman to convene
a closed session in the Council Conference Room and adjourn the council
meeting immediately following the closed session...The motion carried by a
unanimous voice vote.

Standing Reports
Agenda Planning Calendar Review & Council Office Director's Report

Dustin Fratto, Executive Director: Next week the Mayor's FY2027 Tentative Budget will
be presented to the Council.

Council Member Business

Council Member Marci Houseman acknowledged Shane Pace, CAO, for receiving City
Manager of the Year Award.

Council Member Brooke Christensen thanked the Sandy Youth Council, volunteers and
staff for helping to plant the rose bushes at the Sandy Cemetery on Sandy Beautification
Day.

Council Member Cyndi Sharkey attended the Utah League of Cities and Towns mid-year
conference. The workshops were all very informative an educational. The Council hosted
dignitaries at the RSL game for the Messi game. Guests included business leaders from
the Smith Entertainment Group, Senate President, legislators, and the Attorney General.

Council Member Alison Stroud thanked the Sandy Youth Council for their help at the
Sandy cemetery. They helped plant 40 different rose bushes and cleaned around the
headstones. She attended meetings in Washington DC as part of the South Valley
Chamber conference and spoke about her meetings with Utah federal legislators.

Council Member Brooke D'Sousa attended the Utah League of Cities and Towns mid-year
conference and spoke about the education workshops and trainings at the conference.
Her family participated in a Sandy Beautification Day clean-up project at Dimple Dell

Park.

Mayor's Report

No report

CAO Report

Shane Pace, CAO: This Monday at 12:30 there will be a Wildland preparedness event at
This is the Place Heritage Park. He attended the UCMA conference in St. George.

Sandy City, Utah Page 4 Printed on 5/27/2026


City Council Meeting Minutes April 28, 2026

Recreation Center Construction Report

Ben Hill, Parks & Recreation Director provided the Council with a construction report and
update on the Sandy Recreation Center.

Following the report, Council moved to Item 2 on the Agenda and convened closed
session.

Adjournment

The Council meeting adjourned immediately following the closed session which convened
at 9:21 pm.

Sandy City, Utah Page 5 Printed on 5/27/2026


