DocuSign Envelope ID: 9965F64A-AFCB-4108-90CA-E68220B824C2




                                     Meeting of the Redevelopment Agency of Sandy City

                                       May 17, 2022 – Online/In Person Meeting
                                          City Council Chambers, Sandy City Hall
                                        10000 South Centennial Parkway, Sandy, Utah
                                                        MINUTES


            Present: Present: Chairwoman Marci Houseman, Alison Stroud, Zack Robinson, Brooke
            D’Sousa, Ryan Mecham, Scott Earl, Cyndi Sharkey.
            Mayor: Monica Zoltanski
            Others in Attendance Lynn Pace, City Attorney, Christine Edwards, Council Office, Dustin
            Fratto Executive Director City Council, Tracy Cowdell, Council Attorney, Mike Gladbach,
            Public Works Director, Dan Medina, Parks and Recreation Director, Tom Ward, Public Utilities
            Director, Kasey Dunlavy, Economic Development Interterm Director, James Sorenson,
            Community Development Director, Brian Kelly Finance Director, Kim Bell, Deputy Mayor.
                 1. Motion to convene City Council meeting.
                     Motion was made by Chairwoman Marci Houseman to adjourn the meeting of the City
                     Council and convene the Sandy City Redevelopment Meeting. Board member Zack
                     Robinson seconded the motion with all voting “yes”
                     The Redevelopment Agency Meeting commenced at 9:53 p.m.


                 2. Discussion regarding Resolution RD 22-01 approving an SIB Loan Agreement, and
                    associated Security Instrument, with Raddon Summit, LLC, to help fund a parking
                    structure and related transportation improvements for the Summit Project in the Civic
                    Center North Redevelopment Project Area.

                     Kasey Dunlavy presented to the RDA Board members. He provided background history
                     of the resolution for the SIB loan agreement, noting that the current economic
                     environment has been heavily impacted due to COVID. Inflation and the rising cost of
                     construction has made it difficult to finance parking structures. He described that the
                     developer and the staff recognized additional funding was needed to finance the parking
                     structures within the Summit project. With Senator Cullimore’s assistance, House Bill
                     244 includes language to provide additional SIB loan funding for parking facilities. The
                     SIB Loan is a “pass-through” loan where the City/RDA has secured the loan from
                     UDOT, but the developer will be required to secure and pay the bulk of debt service on
                     the loan. Senator Cullimore worked with sponsors of House Bill 244 to secure language
                     which provided for UDOT to bond for $30 million for local transportation projects,
                     including parking facilities. This $30 million in turn would be loaned to municipal
                     governments to meet transportation impacted projects. Senator Cullimore identified the
                     Summit Project as an appropriate and applicable project that could benefit from this
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9965F64A-AFCB-4108-90CA-E68220B824C2




                     assistance. Staff worked with UDOT to secure the SIB Loan to assist in the financing of
                     the parking structure and to enable this significant and important project to have the
                     financial resources to be economically viable.

                     Kasey stated the Utah Transportation Commission approved the SIB loan application for
                     the Summit Project on October 22, 2021. The City Council approved a Parameters
                     Resolution acceptance of the loan on November 16, 2021. The terms are $15 million to
                     be amortized and back paid over 15 years by the developer. The RDA will make the first
                     two payments on behalf of the Summit Project in FY 23 and 24. The Developer will
                     make all other installment payments through and including FY 37. As long as the
                     Developer does not default, the first two payments made by the RDA will be waived, and
                     the Developer will not have to repay. However, if the Developer defaults, then the
                     Developer will be obligated to reimburse the RDA for those first two installment
                     payments (FY 23/24).

                     Kasey informed the Board of the purpose of the City / RDA Interlocal Cooperation
                     Agreement. The ILA was needed between the City and the RDA to move the SIB funds
                     from the City to the RDA. Accordingly, the City Council and RDA Board approved an
                     ILA on November 16, 2021. This allows the RDA to become the funding “back stop” for
                     the loan with the developer, and ultimately provides a way for Sandy City to have
                     additional security on the loan. Kasey informed the board this does not take all the risk
                     off the city if the RDA can’t make the payments. However, the RDA cash flow is healthy
                     in Civic Center North. If this does happen there is significant cash flow in the project
                     area.
                     The Raddon Development / RDA Agreement SIB loan is a “pass-through” loan where the
                     RDA secures the loan via the City from UDOT, but the developer pays the debt service
                     on the loan. Staff intended to take this loan agreement back to the RDA Board for
                     approval on December 7, 2021. However, the decision was made to wait until the final
                     interest rate and amortization schedule was set. The final loan rate was approved by the
                     Transportation Committee on February 25, 2022.
                     As part of the original draft SIB Loan Agreement, the RDA agreed to make the first two
                     installment payments with the second payment being amortized over the remaining 13
                     years to be paid back to the RDA by the developer. In early 2022, due to COVID impact
                     on market conditions, specifically the impact on market values of hotels and additional
                     construction inflation, the developer requested the Agency consider writing off the
                     second-year payment in addition to the first, and not requiring the payment be paid by
                     Raddon over the remaining loan period. Accordingly, staff asked Lewis Young
                     Robertson and Burningham (LYRB) to review and determine the justification of
                     Raddon’s request for the Agency to make the second-year payment. Based off the
                     completed analysis and estimated future cash flow of the Civic Center North Project
                     Area, LYRB concluded the additional public participation request is justified and
                     necessary to achieve the density and desired use of the property. Kasey stated anytime a
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9965F64A-AFCB-4108-90CA-E68220B824C2




                     developer requests assistance, the RDA makes sure there is a “but for” or needs analysis
                     completed to justify the “but for” or need. The financial analysis has been included in the
                     attached documents. Kasey recommended to the Board the RDA make the first two
                     payments based on the need justification due to interest rate hikes including the
                     developers exit cap rate. This rate increase alone has cost the developer a $9 million
                     dollar funding gap. With the RDA making this payment it will help make this project
                     happen. It has been proven without these payments and without this loan, the gap on the
                     parking structure and conference space would be too high. This funding option provides a
                     low interest financing and funding mechanism to make this project happen. It is mutually
                     beneficial not only for the developer but for the city and the RDA.
                     Kasey cited as part of the original draft loan agreement; the developer was to receive the
                     $15 million SIB Loan payment once the draft agreement was approved by the Agency
                     Board. As a result of the updated payment request, and after further consideration of
                     terms, the developer has agreed to additional requests by staff in the agreement which
                     provides more security to the RDA. These include:
                     1- Developer will not receive loan proceeds until such time developer closes on and
                        acquires the Hotel/Residential Phase of the property.
                     2- Agency will hold loan proceeds and until the developer can show and provide
                        invoices for appropriate costs.
                     3- The RDA will not provide any funding until developer has incurred costs or lending
                        obligations in an amount not less then the $15 loan amount.
                     4- If the developer creates condominium units, those units can be sold and the RDA’s
                        lien on such units(s) released in exchange for a prepayment of $150,000 per unit.


            Board member Cyndi Sharkey: Wanted clarification that this is a two-part phase, the garage gets
            built with phase one. Kasey answered the parking structure, hotel, and residential are phase one.
            There will be two parking structures. One with 1100 stalls that will serve the hotel and
            residential and then when the office section is built that will have a three-story parking structure
            with 550 stalls.
            Board member Brooke D’Sousa made a motion to approve Resolutions RD 22-01 Board member
            Ryan Mecham seconded the motion

                         Vote: Stroud Yes  Houseman Yes                    Mecham Yes
                               Earl Yes    Robinson Yes                    Sharkey Yes
                               D’Sousa Yes


                         Motion Passed: Yes 7 , No 0
DocuSign Envelope ID: 9965F64A-AFCB-4108-90CA-E68220B824C2




                 3. Board member D’Sousa made a motion to adopt the Minutes for November 9, 2021, and
                    November 16, 2021. Board member Earl seconded. The minutes were approved with all
                    voting yes.


                 4. Motion to adjourn Redevelopment Agency Meeting: Board Member Ryan Mecham
                    made a motion to recess the meeting of the RDA. Board Member Zach Robinson
                    seconded the motion, with all voting “yes”.



                     The meeting recessed at 10:47 p.m.




            ATTEST:                                          _____________________________
                                                              Marci Houseman – Chairman




            ______________________________
            Cyndie Nell- Secretary
