ORDINANCE NO. 21-27

AN ORDINANCE REPEALING SECTIONS 13.08.050, 13.22.280, 13.48.055,
AND 15.22.110 OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE; AND AMENDING
AND RENUMBERING CHAPTER 13.06 OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL
CODE TO CHAPTER 3.14, RELATED TO IMPACT FEES AND INCLUDING
THE ENACTMENT OF A PARKS, TRAILS AND RECREATION IMPACT FEE.

Preamble

Murray City (“City”) has the legal authority, in accordance with Title 11,
Chapter 36a of the Utah Code (“Utah Impact Fee Act” or “Act”) to impose impact
fees as a condition of development activity approval, which impact fees are used
to provide system improvements necessary to service and support new growth.

The City has historically assessed and imposed impact fees as a condition
precedent to development activity approval in order to provide system
improvements in an equitable and proportionate manner. The City currently
assesses impact fees for water, wastewater, storm water, and electric power
systems. The impact fees for these systems are in various ordinances in the City
Code (“Code”). The City wants to combine all impact fee provisions into one
centralized chapter in the Code. The different impact fee ordinances will be
repealed and reinstated under new chapter 3.14.

The City has now completed a Parks, Trails and Recreation Impact Fee
Facilities Plan and a Parks, Trails and Recreation Impact Fee Analysis, both
being found to meet the requirements of the Act. The Act allows for the
imposition of impact fees for parks, recreation and trails, and authorizes the City
the revise and amend impact fees from time to time as determined necessary.

On July 13, 2021, the City provided notice of its intent to prepare an
impact fee facilities plan and an impact fee analysis for its parks, trails and
recreation, as required by the Act. The City has provided the required notice and
held a public hearing on October 19, 2021 to receive public comment on this
ordinance, including the parks, trails and recreation impact fee enactment.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL
COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to repeal sections
13.08.050, 13.32.280, 13.48.055, and 15.22.110 of the Murray City Municipal Code; and
to amend and renumber chapter 13.06 of the Murray City Municipal Code to chapter
3.14, which includes the enactment of a parks, trails and recreation impact fee.



Section 2. Repeal sections 13.08.050, 13.32.280, 13.48.055, and 15.22.110 of
the Murray City Municipal Code. Sections 13.08.050, 13.32.280, 13.48.055, and
15.22.110 of the Murray City Municipal Code are hereby repealed as follows:

13.08.050: [REPEALED]

13.32.280: [REPEALED]

13.48.055: [REPEALED]

15.22.110: [REPEALED]

Section 3. Amend chapter 13.06 and renumber to chapter 3.14 of the Murray
City Municipal Code, and enact a parks, trails and recreation impact fee. Chapter 13.06
of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be amended and renumbered, and a parks,
trails and recreation impact fee shall be enacted as follows:

CHAPTER 3.14
IMPACT FEES

3.14.010: INTENT:

This chapter is intended to meet the requirements of Title 11, Chapter 36a of the Utah
Code, entitled the "Impact Fees Act". The intent of collecting impact fees is to impose a
portion of the cost of system improvements for water, wastewater, stormwater, power,
roadway, parks and recreation, and public safety upon those developments that create
the need for, or increase the demands on, system improvements.

3.14.020: CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT:

Impact fees are hereby imposed as a condition of the issuance of a building permit for
the construction of any new structure for single family, multi-family, commercial,
industrial or institutional use which creates additional demand upon and need for public
facilities for culinary water, sanitary sewer, streets, storm drain, pressurized irrigation,
and parks and trails facilities, as set forth in the Schedule of Impact Fees in Section
3.14.110. All previous resolutions and ordinances regarding impact fees remain
applicable as to any existing, active, and pending applications for a building permit on
file prior to the effective date of this ordinance.

3.14.030: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings:



BUILDING PERMIT: The permit required for new construction and additions pursuant to
title 15 of this Code.

DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or
use, any change in use of a building or structure, or any changes in the use of land that
creates additional demand and need for public facilities.

IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a
condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of the new development on
public infrastructure. Impact fee does not mean a tax, a special assessment, a building
permit fee, a hookup fee, a fee for project improvements, or other reasonable permit or
application fee.

IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS: The written analysis of each impact fee required by Utah
Code section 11-36a-303.

PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: Site improvements and facilities that are: a) planned and
designed to provide service for development resulting from a development activity; b)
necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of development
resulting from a development activity; and c) not identified or reimbursed as a system
improvement.

PUBLIC FACILITIES: Only the following impact fee facilities that have a life expectancy
of ten (10) or more years and are owned or operated by or on behalf of the City:

A. Water rights and water supply, treatment, storage and distribution facilities;
B. Wastewater collection and treatment facilities;

C. Stormwater, drainage and flood control facilities;

D. Municipal power facilities;

E. Roadway facilities;

F. Parks, recreation facilities, open space and trails;

G. Public safety facilities;

H. Environmental mitigation as provided in Utah Code section 11-36a-205.

SERVICE AREA: A geographically defined area of the City designated on the basis of
sound planning or engineering principles in which a defined set of system facilities
provide service within the area. Service area may include the entire Citywide area.

SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:

A. Existing public facilities that are: 1) identified in the impact fee analysis; and 2)
designed to provide services to service areas within the community at large; and

B. Future public facilities identified in the impact fee analysis that are intended to
provide services to service areas within the community at large. System improvements
do not mean project improvements.


3.14.040: IMPACT FEES ARE SEPARATE AND IN ADDITION TO OTHER FEES:
Impact fees are separate from, in addition and supplemental to, and not in substitution
of, any other requirements, applicable taxes, special assessments, charges or fees
otherwise provided by law or imposed as a condition of development or the issuance of
building permits.

3.14.050: SERVICE AREAS:
Service areas for which impact fees are calculated and imposed consist of:

A. For water connection services, the entire area connected to the City’s water
system within the geographical boundaries of the City;

B. For wastewater connection services, the entire area connected to the wastewater
system within the geographical boundaries of the City;

C. For stormwater services, the entire area connected to the City’s stormwater
system within the geographical boundaries of the City;

D. For electric power services, the entire area connected to the City’s municipal
power system within the geographical boundaries of the City; and

E. For parks and recreation services, all areas within the entire geographical
boundary of the City.

3.14.060: ADJUSTMENT OF IMPACT FEES:

A. The City Council may authorize an adjustment in the standard impact fee for one
or more services at the time the fee is charged to:

1. Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;

2. Respond to a request for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for
the development activity of the State, a schoo! district, or a charter school
and an offset or credit for a public facility for which an impact fee has been
or will be collected; and

3. Ensure that impact fees are imposed fairly.

B. The City Council may adjust the standard impact fee for one or more services at
the time the fee is charged based, in whole or in part, upon studies and data
submitted by the developer.

3.14.070: IMPACT FEE CREDIT:
A. The City Council may approve an impact fee credit if an applicant:

1. Dedicates land for a system improvement;

2. Builds and dedicates some or all of a system improvement; or

3. Dedicates a public facility that the City and the developer agree will reduce
the need for a system improvement.



B. The City shall provide an impact fee credit for any dedication of land for,
improvement to, or new construction of, any system improvements provided by
the applicant if the facilities:

1. Are system improvements; or
2. Are dedicated to the public and offset the need for an identified system

improvement.

3.14.080: IMPACT FEE MANAGEMENT:

The impact fees collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be deposited into separate
interest-bearing ledger accounts and may only be used for system improvements
identified in the impact fee facilities plan and for the specific public facility type for which
the fee was collected. The accounting, expenditure and possible refund of all such
impact fees collected shall be handled in accordance with the provisions of the Utah
Impact Fees Act.

3.14.090: IMPACT FEES BY AGREEMENT:

To the extent allowed by law, the City Council may approve an agreement negotiated
that imposes impact fees and other fees different from those outlined in this ordinance.
Those impact fees and charges may include but not be limited to reductions or
increases of impact fees, all or part of which may be reimbursed to the developer who
installed improvements that service the land to be connected with the City’s systems.

i 3.14.100: FEES EFFECTIVE AT TIME OF PAYMENT:
Unless the City is otherwise bound by a contractual requirement, the impact fee shall be
determined from the fee schedule in effect at the time of payment in accordance with
the Schedule of Impact Fees in Section 3.14.110.

3.14.110: SCHEDULE OF IMPACT FEES:

As acondition of the issuance of a building permit for the construction of any new
structure for single-family, multi-family, commercial, industrial or institutional use, the
developer, owner or builder shall pay an impact fee in the amounts as follows:

A. Water Impact Fee:

1. The water impact fee shall be based on the water meter size serving the
property as follows:

-——"Wetersizo—SSSC*dSCOC*~C~‘“~*~*~spact ee



feo SCSC~C~“~*~*~drSOSB SSS
a 2

2. Non-standard users impact fee formula: After identifying the estimated
average annual demand gallon consumption of a proposed development,
multiply the average annual demand by impact fee of two cents ($0.02) per
gallon.

3. For purposes of the water impact fee, new development shall include
remodeling, building enlargement, or any other construction or improvement
which will place an increased burden on the City water system.

B. Wastewater Impact Fee and Tapping Charges:

1. Wastewater system impact fees are computed on an equivalent dwelling unit
(EDU) calculation assigned to each applicable land use or type of service,
and shall be imposed on all sewer connections made on or after the effective
date hereof, as follows:

Impact Fee per EDU Unit
Single-Family Dwelling 100% $1,372.00

Multiple-Family Dwelling $1,029.00 per single unit
or unit

Hotel/motel $686.00 per room

2. The wastewater system impact fee for ail other uses is the greater of:

a. The following fee based on the water meter size serving the property to be
served by the wastewater system:



i b. A fee of one thousand three hundred seventy-two dollars ($1,372.00) per
EDU, where one EDU is equal to fifteen (15) plumbing fixture traps, as
defined in the adopted Plumbing Codes and as determined by the City
building official. A person aggrieved by the calculation of the number of
plumbing traps may appeal to a Hearing Officer appointed by the Mayor.

| 3. Tapping Charges: The abutting property owner or developer shall run a lateral

service line, at the owner's or developer's expense, to within one foot (1°) of

the wastewater system. The City shall then tap or open the wastewater

| system to allow the owner or developer to connect the lateral service line to

the wastewater system. The property owner or developer shall pay the City a
tapping charge, in an amount to be determined by the Mayor in a written
policy, to tap either a four inch (4") or six inch (6") main line. The tapping
charge shall be paid when the impact fee imposed by this section is paid.

C. Storm Water Impact Fee

1. For the purposes of this subsection, equivalent residential unit (ERU) means
the amount of impervious surface, expressed in square feet, on developed
single-family residential parcels in the City. One ERU equals three thousand

i four hundred (3,400) square feet of impervious surface.

2. For purposes of this subsection, new development shall include remodeling,
building enlargement, or any other construction or improvement which will
place an increased burden on the City storm water system.

3. The storm water impact fee for new development shall be one hundred
eighty-three dollars ($183.00) for each ERU.

D. Power Impact Fee

1. For the purposes of this subsection, new development shall include
remodeling, building enlargement, or any other construction or improvement
which will place an increased burden on the City's power system.

2. Power impact fees are computed as capacity-based fees derived from unit
costs for facility capacity, without assuming the location or type of
development to be served. Using this approach, power impact fees are
calculated in terms of cost per unit of capacity, rather than cost per unit of
development, which fees shall be imposed on all developments made on or
after the effective date hereof, as follows:


Type Size (kW) $118.47
Single-phase |120240v0K ‘| 00amp_ [60 [71081
TT Oo



Power impact fees for primary metered customers shall be negotiated on a case by case basis.

E. Parks, Trails and Recreation Impact Fee

The parks, trails and recreation impact fee for new development shall be:
a. $5,396.23 per single-family residential unit; and
b. $4,965.35 per multi-family residential unit.

i 3.14.120: IMPACT FEE REFUNDS:
The City shall refund any impact fees paid by a developer, plus interest earned, when:
A. The developer does not proceed with the development activity and has filed a
written request for a refund;
B. The fees have not been spent or encumbered; and
C. No impact has resulted. (Ord. 16-12)

3.14.130: PETITION FOR IMPACT FEE REFUNDS:

A petition for a refund of an impact fee must be submitted to the appropriate City
department on a form provided by the City for such purpose. Petitions shall be
submitted to the designee of: a) the Public Works Department for water and sewer
impact fees; b) the City Engineer for storm sewer impact fees; c) the Power Department
for electric power impact fees; or d) the Parks and Recreation Department for parks,
trails and recreation impact fees. Within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of a
petition for refund, the respective City designee must provide the petitioner, in writing,
with a decision on the refund request, including the reasons for the decision. If a full or
partial refund is due petitioner, the City designee shall notify the City Treasurer and
request that a full or a partial refund payment be made to the petitioner within thirty (30)
days of the date of the written decision. Petitioner may appeal the determination of the
respective City designee to the Mayor. (Ord. 18-06)

Should any developer undertake development activities such that the ultimate density or

i 3.14.140: IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL FEE OR REFUND AFTER DEVELOPMENT:
other impact of the development activity is not revealed to the City, whether through


inadvertence, neglect, a change in plans, or any other cause whatsoever, and/or any
impact fee is not initially charged against all units, the total density within the
development or other measurement included in the calculation of impact fees, the City
shall be entitled to recover the total impact fee from the developer or other appropriate
person covering the measurement for which an impact fee was not previously paid.

3.14.150: IMPACT FEE CHALLENGES AND APPEALS:

A. Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee, who believes the fee does not
meet the requirements of title 11, chapter 36a of the Utah Code may file a written
request for information with the City. Within two (2) weeks of the receipt of the request
for information, the City shall provide the person or entity with the written impact fee
analysis, the impact fee facilities plan and with any other relevant information relating to
the impact fee.

B. Aperson or entity may appeal the decision of the respective City designee
regarding impact fee refunds to the Mayor within thirty (30) days of the decision. The
person or entity shall file a written notice of appeal with the Mayor. The Mayor shall
review the decision and reasoning of the respective designee and any additional
information provided by petitioner. The Mayor shall enter a written decision on the
appeal no later than thirty (30) days after the date the written notice of appeal was filed
with the Mayor. The Mayor may uphold, modify or reject the decision from which the
appeal was taken. The person or entity affected by any decision of the Mayor may
petition the District Court for a review of the Mayor's decision or take any other action in
accordance with Utah Code section 11-36a-701 et seq.

C. After paying an impact fee, the person or entity who has paid the impact fee and
wants to challenge the notice requirements, other procedural requirements, or the
impact fee shall file a written notice of challenge with the Mayor within the following time
limits:

1. For a challenge of the notice requirements, the challenge shall be filed no later
than thirty (30) days after the day on which the impact fee was paid;

2. Fora challenge of other procedural requirements, the challenge shall be filed no
later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the day on which the impact fee was
paid; and

3.’ For a challenge to the impact fee, the challenge shall be filed no later than one
year after the day on which the impact fee was paid.

D. The Mayor shall determine the manner in which the challenge under subsection C
of this section shall be conducted. The Mayor shall enter a written decision on the
challenge no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the challenge to the impact fee
is filed. The sole remedy for a challenge relating to notice or other procedural
requirements is that the City shall be required to correct the defective notice and repeat
the process. The sole remedy for a challenge to the impact fee is a refund of the
difference between what the person or entity paid as an impact fee and the amount the
impact fee should have been if it had been correctly calculated. The person or entity
affected by any decision of the Mayor may petition the District Court for a review of the
decision or take any other action authorized by Utah Code section 11-36a-701 et seq.

E. Achallenge to any provision under the Impact Fee Act may be initiated and i

pursued in any manner authorized under Utah Code section 11-36a-701 et seq.



F. The State, a school district or a charter school may, in addition to any other
method allowed by law, challenge an impact fee by requesting the City to participate in
mediation. Upon a written request for mediation, which shall be given no later than thirty
(30) days after the day on which an impact fee is paid, the City shall cooperate with the
specified public agency to select a mediator and participate in the mediation process.
(Ord. 16-12)

3.14.160: EFFECT ON ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:

This chapter shall not affect, in any manner, the permissible use of property, density of
development, design, and improvement standards and requirements, or any other
aspect of the development of land or provision of system improvements subject to the
zoning and subdivision regulations or other regulations of the City, which shall be
operative and remain in full force and effect without limitation with respect to all such
development. (Ord. 16-12)

3.14.170: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:

The provisions of this chapter are found and declared to be in furtherance of the public
| health, safety, and welfare, and convenience, and it shall be liberally construed to
effectively carry out its purpose. (Ord. 16-12)

3.14.180: SEVERABILITY:

If any section or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or

unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be
i affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 4. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect ninety (90) days after
the day on which the Ordinance is approved, as required by state law.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 19" day of October, 2021

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

cr

Diane Turner, Chair/

-LArrigk /

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder


A | Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this 2 \F. say of

, 2021.

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

DATED this Z\“Aay of Octdcer 2021.

D. Blair Camp

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| rig b ify that ge or a Summary hereof was published according
to law on the —* ‘day of XK2021. i

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

