ORDINANCE NO. 21-22

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 13.30.030, 13.30.070 AND
13.30.150 OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
RESTRICTING GEOTHERMAL WELLS IN RECHARGE AREAS AND
PROTECTION ZONES.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend sections
13.30.030, 13.30.070 and 13.30.150 relating to restricting geothermal wells in recharge ~
areas and protection zones.

, Section 2. Amend sections 13.30.030, 13.30.070 and 13.30.7150. Sections
13.30.030, 13.30.070 and 13.30.150 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be
amended as follows:

13.30.030: DEFINITIONS:

Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used in this
chapter shall be defined as follows:

ABANDONED WELL: Means a well, the use of which has been permanently
discontinued or is in such a state of disrepair that it cannot be used for its intended
purpose or for observation purposes.

BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Means a practice or combination of
practices determined to be the most effective practicable (including technological,
economic, and institutional considerations) means of preventing or reducing the amount
of pollution to a level compatible with water, soil, and air quality goals.

CITY: Means Murray City Corporation.

CITY COUNCIL: Means the Murray City Municipal Council.

CLOSURE: Means the cessation of operation of a facility, or any portion thereof, and
the act of securing such facility or portion thereof to ensure protection of ground water in
accordance with the appropriate State, Federal and local regulations applicable to the

specific facility and with the provisions of this chapter.

CONTINUOUS TRANSIT: Means the nonstop movement of a mobile vehicle except for
stops required by traffic laws.

DEPARTMENT: Means the City Public Works Department.


DIRECTOR: Means the Director of the Public Works Department or designee.

DISCHARGE: Means and includes, without limitation, spilling, leaking, seeping, pouring,
injecting, emitting, emptying, disposing, releasing, or dumping regulated substances,
hazardous waste or petroleum products to the soils, air, ground waters, or surface
waters of the City. Discharge does not include the use of a regulated substance in
accordance with the appropriate use intended or specified by the manufacturer of the
substance, provided that such use is not prohibited by Federal, State, or local
regulations. Discharge does not include discharges specifically authorized by Federal or
State permits.

DRINKING WATER SOURCE: Means a drinking water spring or well supplying water
which has been permitted or intended for consumptive use.

DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONE (DWSP), OR PROTECTION
ZONE: Means an area within which Best Management Practices are mandated for
restricted uses, or certain uses are prohibited, in order to protect ground water flowing
to public drinking water sources, and designated as a Protection Zone, level 1, 2, 3, or
4, pursuant to section 13.30.050 of this chapter.

GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP (GSHP) SYSTEM: Means a central heating and/or
cooling system that pumps heat to or from the ground. It uses the earth as a heat
source in the winter or a heat sink in the summer. These systems reduce operational
costs of heating and cooling by taking advantage of moderate ground temperatures.
GSHP as used in this chapter includes, but is not limited to, any such systems
commonly referred to as Geothermal Wells, Geothermal Heat Pump Wells, Geothermal
Heat Pumps, Closed-loop Heating/Cooling Exchange Wells, and Heat Exchange Units.

GROUND WATER: Means any water which may be drawn from the ground.

GROUND WATER DISCHARGE AREA: Means an area where the direction of ground
water movement is upward from the principal aquifer to the shallow unconfined aquifer.
Discharge areas, determined by the United States Geological Survey (USGS), are
shown in section 13.30.150, appendix C of this chapter.

GROUND WATER DIVIDE: Means a line on a water table on each side of which the
water table slopes downward in a direction away from the line.

GROUND WATER TOT: Means the time of travel for ground water to reach a drinking
water source.

HANDLE: Means to use, generate, process, produce, package, treat, store or transport
a regulated substance, hazardous waste or petroleum product in any fashion.

HAZARDOUS WASTE: Means all waste regulated under the following Federal Acts: the
Reserve Conservation and Recovery Act, the Toxic Substance Control Act, the Clean



Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act and the Atomic Energy Act
of 1954.

HEALTH DEPARTMENT: Means the Salt Lake Valley Health Department.

OPERATING PERMIT: Means a permit to operate a facility handling regulated
substances, hazardous waste or petroleum products under this chapter. The permit will
be issued by the Public Works Department.

PCS: Means potential contaminant source.

PETROLEUM PRODUCT: Includes, without limitation, fuels (gasoline, diesel fuel,
kerosene, and mixtures of these products), lubricating oils, motor oils (new and used),
hydraulic fluids, and other similar petroleum based products.

POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: means any facility or site which employs an
activity or procedure which may potentially contaminate ground or surface water. A
pollution source is also a potential contamination source.

PROHIBITED USE: Means a use, activity or practice which creates a substantial risk of
pollution or contamination in the specified protection zone. A prohibited use is not
permitted.

RECHARGE AREA: Means either a primary or secondary recharge area.

RECHARGE AREA AND PROTECTION ZONE MAP: Means the map by that name
designated in section 13.30.040 of this chapter.

REGULATED PERSON: Means a person, corporation, partnership, association or other
legal entity subject to this chapter.

REGULATED SUBSTANCES: Means substances (including degradation and
interaction products) which because of quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical
(including ignitability, corrosivity, reactiveness and toxicity), infectious characteristics,
radiomutagenicity, carcinogenicity, teratogenicity, bioaccumulative effect, persistence
(nondegradability) in nature, or any other characteristics relevant to a particular material
that may cause significant harm to human health and/or the environment (including
surface and ground water, plants, and animals), including, without limitation, those
substances set forth in the generic regulated substances list which is included as
section 13.30.150, appendix A of this chapter; and the substances set forth in the
following lists, as the same may be amended from time to time: identification and listing
of hazardous materials (40 CFR part 261, subpart D) and list of extremely hazardous
substances (40 CFR part 355, appendices A and B) and which are in a form capable of
entering ground water.


RESIDENTIAL USE: Means any building or structure or portion thereof that is
designated for or used for residential purposes and any activity involving the use or
occupancy of a lot for residential purposes. Residential use shall include those
customary and accessory residential activities associated with the principal permitted
use of a lot for residential purposes as provided in the City's zoning ordinance.

SECONDARY CONTAINMENT: Means any system that is used to provide release
detection and release prevention, such as trays under containers, floor curbing or other
systems designed to hold materials or liquids that may discharge from containers
holding regulated substances, petroleum products or hazardous substances. Examples
include a double walled tank, a double walled integral piping system, or single walled
tank or integral piping system that is protected by an enclosed concrete vault, liner or an
impervious containment area.

SEPTIC HOLDING TANK: Means a watertight receptacle, used to contain septic waste,
the contents of which are removed and disposed of at a waste disposal facility.

SEPTIC TANK SYSTEM: Means a generally watertight receptacle connected to a drain
field that allows liquid from the tank to enter the soil. The system is constructed to
promote separation of solid and liquid components of domestic wastewater, to provide
decomposition of organic matter, to store solids and to allow clarified liquid to discharge
for further treatment and disposal in a soil absorption system.

SLUDGE OR BIOSOLIDS: Means the solids separated from wastewater during the
wastewater treatment process.

TRAVEL TIME CONTOUR: Means the locus of points that form a line of any
configuration in space from which ground water particles on that line theoretically take
an equal amount of time to reach a given destination, such as a well or a well field, as
predicted by the refined Salt Lake Valley MOD FLOW/MOD PATH model.

USGS: Means the United States Geological Survey.

WELL: Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug, jetted or
otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is for the location,
acquisition, development or artificial recharge of ground water.

WELL FIELD: Means an area of land which contains one or more drinking water supply
wells. (Ord. 18-06: Ord. 17-40)

13.30.070: USES AND RESTRICTIONS WITHIN RECHARGE AREAS AND
PROTECTION ZONES:

A. Prohibitions And Restrictions: A list of uses which may constitute potential
contamination sources is found in section 13.30.150, appendix B of this chapter. The list



categorizes each use as either permitted, conditional or prohibited within protection
zones referenced in section 13.30.150, appendix C of this chapter, and includes BMPs,
if available, for each use. Permit requests for restricted uses shall be processed as
provided in section 13.30.080 of this chapter. The department shall update and/or revise
section 13.30.150, appendix B of this chapter from time to time as uses, technology,
and BMPs evolve over time. Section 13.30.150, appendix C of this chapter shall not be
construed to allow a permitted or a conditional use except as that use may be provided
in the zoning ordinance of the City. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate and/or
prohibit certain land uses which may be otherwise classified as permitted or conditional
uses under the zoning ordinance, and if the provisions of this chapter conflict with the
zoning ordinance in this regard, the more strict provisions of this chapter shall apply.

B. Discharge: A person may not discharge, or permit the discharge, of any regulated
substance, hazardous waste or petroleum product, whether treated or untreated, to
soils, air, ground water, or surface water in any recharge area or protection zone, that
may have a deleterious effect upon the ground water in the City, unless the discharge is
in compliance with Federal, State, and local regulations. (Ord. 17-40)

C. Ground Source Heat Pump wells: The City restricts GSHP wells drilled in Source
Protection Zones 1 through 4 as follows:

1. GSHP wells of any depth are prohibited in Zones 1 and 2.
J 2. GSHP wells less than 30’ are restricted in zones 3 and 4.

13.30.150: APPENDICES:

APPENDIX B
List Of Potential Contamination Sources And Best Management Practices

The following table identifies uses which have varying potentials to contaminate ground
water sources. These uses have been classified according to the risk of contamination
in each protection zone as follows:

Permitted Uses (P) - The risk of contamination is considered relatively low in the
specified zone if regulatory requirements and Best Management Practices are
implemented and, therefore, the use is permitted if it otherwise conforms to the zoning
ordinance, chapter 17, of this Code.

Conditional Uses (C) - The risk of contamination is moderate in the specified zone.
The use may be permitted only after conditional use review and approval by the
Planning Commission if the use otherwise conforms to the zoning ordinance, chapter
17, of this Code and to State law. Approval is subject to implementation of Best


Management Practices and compliance with other reasonable conditions as may be
established by the Planning Commission.

Prohibited Uses (X) - The risk of contamination is very high in the specified zone. The
use is not permitted regardless of any other provision of the zoning ordinance, chapter
17, of this Code.

Stormwater: R-317-8 Pretreatment: Contact local Municipal wastewater plant.

TABLE 1
Use Matrix for Potential Contamination Sources
Potential Related Best
Contamination Protection Zone Management
Regulations
Source an

Primary | Secondary Zones.3
a ee — 4

GSHP, eo than 30

feet deep

GSHP, more than 30

feet ——

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first
publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 24* day of August, 2021
MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
Diane Turner/ Chait

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder


Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this (a of

Ay 6) , 2021.

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved
DATED this Z [Hay of [ X VG & : , 2021.

D. Blair Camp, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according

to law on the @T of ACU A , 2021.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder
