ORDINANCE NO. 22-14

AN ORDINANCE RELATED TO THE MURRAY CITY CENTER
DISTRICT; REPEAL OF 2011 DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES AND
ENACTMENT OF NEW DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES.

Preamble

In 2011, the Murray City Municipal Council (“City Council”) adopted Design
Guidelines for the Murray City Center District (“2011 Design Guidelines”) in order to
establish the standards of appropriate activity that will facilitate development within the
Murray City Center District (“MCCD”). The City Council recently amended the MCCD
zone ordinance, which revised the role of design guidelines in the MCCD. Accordingly,
the 2011 Design Guidelines have become obsolete, and current guidelines are required.
Design guidelines in the MCCD are to be “consulted during the review of proposed
development [within the MCCD] in order to provide guidance, direction and options
which will further the stated purposes of the MCCD.” Section 17.170.020 of the City
Code. The Proposed Design Review Guidelines (“Proposed Guidelines’), along with
the MCCD ordinance provide policy directives to decision-makers in addressing
development and planning issues within the MCCD. Input was received from the
Planning Commission, after holding a public hearing on the matter, which forwarded a
recommendation to repeal the 2011 Design Guidelines and adopt the Proposed
Guidelines. A public hearing has been held before the City Council concerning the
Proposed Guidelines pursuant to public notice provided according to law. It is in the
best interests of the City that the 2011 Design Guidelines be repealed and the Proposed
Guidelines adopted to enhance the character of buildings within the MCCD and to
facilitate and enhance orderly development in the future.

NOW, THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Municipal Council of Murray City as
follows:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to repeal the Design
Guidelines for the Murray City Center District originally adopted in 2011, and to adopt
the attached Design Guidelines for the Murray City Center District drafted in 2020.

Section 2. Repeal. The Design Guidelines for the Murray City Center District
adopted by the City Council in 2011 are hereby repealed.

Section 3. Enactment. The attached Design Guidelines for the Murray City
Center District, drafted in 2020, are hereby adopted.

Section 4. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first
publication and filing of copy thereof in the office of the City Recorder of Murray City,
Utah.


PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 8!" day of March, 2022.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

Meh Miubvrea

Kat Martinez, Chair

ATTEST:

rooke Smith, City Recorder

Dic
Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this 21 day of
Matin , 2022.

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this “2-4 Gay of Mau 2022.

i
Brett A. Hales, May

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereb thay of Wa AA that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ys ay of Maum \2022.

Le Smith, City Recorder


MURRAY CITY
™ CENTER DISTRICT

DESIGN
GUIDELINES



ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

MAYOR
Brett Hales

CITY COUNCIL
Kat Martinez District 1
Pam Cotter District 2
Rosalba Dominguez District 3
Diane Turner District 4
Garry Hrechkosy District 5

PLANNING COMMISSION
Phil Markham Chair
Scot Woodbury Vice-Chair
Sue Wilson
Maren Patterson
Travis Nay
Lisa Milkavich
Ned Hacker

MURRAY CITY CENTER DISTRICT DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE
CJ Kulp Chair
Andy Hulka Vice-Chair
Daniel Hayes
David Hunter
Ray Beck

MURRAY CITY COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STAFF
Melinda Greenwood Director

Jared Hall Planning Division Manager
Zachary Smallwood Associate Planner
Susan Nixon Associate Planner
Mark Boren Assistant Planner


TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chapter 1 Murray City Center District Design Guidelines Introduction 05

Introduction Statement 06

Design Review 07

Document Organization 08

Chapter 2 Shared Values for Murray’s Downtown 09

Chapter 3 Design Guidelines 15
District Wide Guidelines

- Walkability 16

- Activity 18

- Sustainability 20

- streetscape

Development Site Guidelines

- Circulation 28
- Open Space 30
- Active Buildings 32
- Parking 34
- Neighbor Awareness 36
- Meaningful Light 38
Architectural Guidelines
- Design for Potential 40
- Connection to the Ground 42
- Connection to the Sky 44
- Fenestration & Porosity 46
- Express a Clear, Organizing Idea 48
- Private Space 50
- Materiality 52
Chapter 4 Photo Credits 55


Murray City Center District | 5

DESIGN
GUIDELINES
INTRODUCTION



6 | Design Guidelines Introduction

INTRODUCTION

The goal of the Murray City Center District Design | Murray City is pursuing the development of a true
Guidelines is to provide a framework within which the | downtown which will include spaces and elements for
development community, citizens and Murray City a lively public gathering area, such as sidewalk dining,
officials can each play a part in the redevelopment of — landscaping, and seating areas. Citizens of Murray are
the City Center District. The 2017 Murray General Plan _ proud of their community and expect a downtown that
anticipates the design guidelines willbe akeycomponent _ will provide amenities and an environment which create
in making the downtown area successful and create a a desirable downtown area. Each individual project in
comfortable place for people to live, work and gather. The — the MCCD zoning district is a part of a larger whole, and
guidelines explain and expand upon the design intent of | as such, should contribute not only its part to the quality
the Murray City Center District zoning ordinance and will — of downtown, but contribute positively to the district as
aid in ensuring new development will create a dynamic, | awhole.

harmonious, and unique downtown that the citizens of

Murray can be proud of. In addition to the goals of the | These design guidelines and subsequent design review
general plan and zoning ordinance, these guidelineshave process should result in more thoughtful projects,
been written with best practices in traditional town and improved business opportunities, and an enhanced
neighborhood development in mind. quality of life for residents.



Murray City Center District | 7

DESIGN REVIEW

The Murray City Council has adopted the Murray City
Center District Design Guidelines which are to beconsulted
during the review process for each new development
proposal that falls within the MCCD zoning district.
~ Murray City staff, the Murray City Center District Review
Committee, and the Planning Commission will use the
guidelines to provide guidance, direction, and support
of the stated purposes of the Murray City Center District
zoning ordinance and the 2017 Murray City General Plan.

= = om

(tl!
eh 1 BeBe eS

(i |
Ly

Yai:

Te

ls 4, «

tot 8

TET EMPLOYEE COURTYARD. MOVEABLE
‘talons VARA ANG |



8 | Design Guidelines Introduction

DOCUMENT ORGANIZATION

The guidelines are broken down into two overarching _District-Wide Guidelines

sections. The first section is an outline of the shared This section lays out broad guidelines which should be
values for Downtown Murray. The second section is the applied generally throughout the Murray City Center
actual guidelines which have been divided into four District.

distinct categories:

oe Public Spaces and Streetscape Guidelines Pl
* — District-Wide Guidelines These guidelines propose improvements to the pedestrian
+ Public Spaces and Streetscape Guidelines experience through open space and streetscape design.

The guidelines are best practices which encourage a
safe, comfortable, interesting, and purposeful walk. The
guidelines also include best practices in public space
design to promote safety, activity, and community
building.

* Development Site Guidelines
¢ Architectural Guidelines

In order to create a set of guidelines by which to review
potential projects, a list of shared values needs to be
established. Community input thus far suggests that Gy;
residents of Murray City support a true downtown with
neighborhoods that bring a mix of housing, office, retail
and entertainment opportunities. After review of current
and past documents that relate to the downtown, the
following five values were identified as important to
the citizens of Murray and will be the compass that will
provide direction for the guidelines. Murray Residents architectural Guidelines
value a downtown thatis: These items within this section are the most fine grained
« fothentic and include recommendations for the physical makeup
and shape of construction inside property lines.

ines for Dev ent Si idelines

The major focus of this section is to introduce guidelines
that relate to site massing, relationship to topography
and the overall fabric of the city. Each property plays a
role in the district and can support larger patterns of open
space, circulation and the pedestrian experience.

e Active
« Inclusive
e Connected

¢ Multi-modal


Murray City Center District | 9

SHARED
VALUES

fj
-

~ a
a
oi



10 | Shared Values for Murray’s Downtown

VALUE 01:
AUTHENTIC

The Murray City Center District is the heart of the City’s
traditional downtown area. The City has many residential
neighborhoods as well as large commercial districts
each of which has a long history of development and
growth in the middle of Salt Lake County. Murray City
is pursuing the development of a true, functioning
and authentic downtown neighborhood; not another
common open-air mall. Development in the MCCD area
should be thoughtful, purposeful, and representative
of the true heart of Murray City. When someone travels
along State Street and reaches the buildings which have
close proximity to the street between 4800 South and
Vine Street, they know they have arrived in Murray. This
feeling of arrival must be fostered with activity to create
a truly authentic downtown that unites historical Murray
with modern Murray.

Desert Star playhouse and neighboring uses along State Street are good
examples of street proximity in the Murray City Center District.

SE aS SS ES I EE EY TT


Murray City Center District | 11

VALUE 02:
ACTIVE

The Murray City Center District needs to be active every
day to become a true downtown. There are three ways in
which the downtown needs to be active:

« Physically
* Socially
« Mentally

Being physically active includes encouraging a variety of
businesses, homes, and entertainment venues that allow
for extended hours and activity. By creating a downtown
that is physically active it becomes safer because more
people are able to see and be seen moving throughout
the district.

A socially active district includes open and inviting
shops, restaurants and bars which allow the community
to interact with and get to know local business owners.
This also allows for the serendipitous encounter with
neighbors that will help generate a sense of pride and
ownership of the downtown.

Last, the third engagement aspect of an active community
is to be mentally active. This is accomplished through
creating open spaces and visual interest in the downtown
district which then stimulates the mind of those who are
experiencing new uses and activities.

Murray residents gather near downtown every year for Murray Fun Days
which is centered around the July 4th holiday.

Sears crv SCRE POPES SIGE STATON STE ae PONS ENCE TTS DO LOI OUI FITS USED T_T CSIRO OTS YZ ON LTS


(ESS aa OP |

12 | Shared Values for Murray’s Downtown

VALUE 03:
INCLUSIVE

Murray has been and should continue to be an open and
welcoming community which embraces inclusivity. The
City desires to create a downtown that is diverse, fair,
approachable, and friendly. New development in the
downtown should create inviting spaces that encourage
activity and interaction along the streets and in the
public and private spaces. The downtown should be a
true community that embraces diversity by providing
fair housing, services, opportunities and activities for
people of all incomes, ages, abilities, colors, and creeds.
The pattern of development should reflect the value of
diversity of thought and design in its public and private
spaces.

Murray’s downtown district should be a space that is welcoming to
everyone.

CEI SS LESS Sa a TOOT STOR


Murray City Center District | 13

VALUE 04:
MULTI-MODAL

A true downtown is experienced best by foot or bicycle.
Murray City experienced this when it was a young city
with people moving from place to place; with patrons
visiting the local shops and restaurants that lined State
Street. Throughout different studies, residents of Murray
_ have expressed that a walkable and bikeable downtown
is something to move towards, without eliminating the
existing need to move vehicular traffic. New development
in the downtown should support multi-modal
transportation into, out of, and within the community
with a focus on the pedestrian’s and cyclists’ experience.

Murray’s downtown should provide inviting pedestrian and cycling
facilities.



14 | Shared Values for Murray’s Downtown

VALUE 05:
CONNECTED

The downtown should become an integral part of Murray
City in order to promote all the values that have been
identified. Access to and from the downtown should be
a central consideration of each decision that is made and
every development that is proposed. The downtown
should be a place that is easily and comfortably
frequented, fostering a sense of place among workers and
visitors and a sense of ownership among the residents pbs hs

of both the downtown and of the larger city alike. The RKING 3
downtown should be an identifiable neighborhood of see
Murray that stands out for its purposeful development Colonial

and contributes to the social and economic well-being of Coes
the whole community.

buy
TH

Connected neighborhoods generate greater foot traffic and increase the
activity of the area.



Murray City Center District | 15

DESIGN
GUIDELINES



ae = ANC ARE 0 UP SAIS RSE fi PSST SSP i PENS EO AEST SPEED SE SS EP SES BT SIS SU RSNS GED Dr os A DORR

16 | District Wide Guidelines

GUIDELINE 01:
Walkability

Design streets such that a pedestrian can move
throughout the downtown without hindrance.

Minimize vehicle crossings and where they occur, design
them with pedestrian accommodations in mind.

* Where vehicle crossings occur, they should be eS
differentiated visually and/or physically.

* Promote safe crossings.

* Pedestrian refuges should be provided where
longer crossings are necessary, such as on State
Street.

Encourage and support public transportation and
bicycling.

* Bicycle travel lanes should be added to all public
rights-of-way.

* Bicycle storage options should be located
throughout the district.

+ Promote awareness of cyclists and pedestrians
through on-street markings and signage.

+ Plan for micro-transit and shared mobility options
through curbside management.

Aclear and shaded pedestrian path provides safety and refuge when
walking.



[SS UE SS A a a GN BPRS EFS Ne Sa SEEN SOUS EIT. RST CL SR OOD LULEST ORNS POSE NEL Se EE OEY SSNS SEPT ee

Murray City Center District | 17

Create Small Blocks.

« Use block lengths of less than 300’ to encourage
short walks.

* Reduce the scale of blocks wherever possible by
providing new streets, mid-block alleys, pedestrian
paths, courtyards, paseos, and plazas that connect
with other streets and public or common space.

« Encourage interconnected streets.

« Short, direct routes for pedestrians encourages
walking.

Create ample on-street parking.

+  On-street public parking provides a physical
barrier that protects the pedestrian from vehicular
traffic.

* Curb parking not only provides a physical barrier
for those walking but also slows the speed of
vehicles.

Develop a street wall.

* Avoid unnecessary voids that cause gaps in the
street wall. Fill in gaps when designing new
buildings.

* Encourage narrow buildings and/or vary the
exteriors of large structures to appear as narrow
buildings.

An example of a short block (250’), an enclosed street wall and on street
parking that as a whole makes the area feel comfortable to pedestrians.

SS a a


18 | District Wide Guidelines

GUIDELINE 02:
Activity

Redevelopment of the downtown area should focus on
parcels with low improvement values per acre and should
be planned for a variety of residential and commercial
uses.

* Include office uses and employment that will
strengthen and support a retail base with a larger
daytime population.

* Encourage development that provides ample
opportunities for dining and food offerings.

* Potential projects should focus on everyday uses
and cultural development for everyday activity.

* Respect the urban fabric by recognizing and
responding to urban patterns and improving upon

those patterns. Mixing uses creates more activity throughout more of the day, including
retail, office and housing creates a 24-hour place.

Provide a range of arts and cultural activities.

* Create anchors of activity that will activate spaces.

* Create opportunities to participate with the
community in providing funding to coordinate and
promote arts and cultural activities.

I] com Se
1 ET Gs ‘.

|

Converting the Cahoon Mansion to the Murray City Museum creates a
destination that residents will be attracted to in the downtown.

ERTL aS EE NS RT ES I I IS ST SY


Murray City Center District | 19

Create an open space network.

« The higher densities of the district must be offset
by providing significant and accessible parks and
open space throughout.

« Provide linkages between parks and open spaces
to important points and basic services in and near
the district such as the hospital, Murray Central
Station, City Hall, and entertainment venues on
State Street. This includes mid-block paths, trails
and plaza space.

« Protect important public views, such as the
Wasatch and Oquirrh Mountains.

Adding open space to the new City Hall will allow for events. Linking
additional open space nearby is encouraged.

View from 4800 South looking east towards the Wasatch Mountains.


20 | District Wide Guidelines

GUIDELINE 03:
Sustainability
Create resiliency within the core of the City.
* Identify locations on key corridors that would
benefit from landscaped medians.
+ Plant street trees and incorporate landscaped park
strips along State Street and other core areas of
the downtown district. —
Reduce urban heat island effects.
* Minimize effects on micro-climate and human and
wildlife habitat by using vegetation and reflective
materials to reduce heat island effects.
* Select strategies, materials, and landscaping
techniques that reduce heat absorption by exterior
surfaces. ene == FZ
* Increase use of vegetated surfaces and planted _ planted medians allow for pedestrian refuge and opportunities to manage
areas. stormwater runoff.
* Use shade from appropriate trees, large shrubs,
vegetated trellises, walls, or other exterior
structures.
* Consider the use of new coatings and integral
colorants for asphalt pavement to achieve light-
colored surfaces instead of traditional dark surface
materials.
* Position photo-voltaic cells to shade impervious
surfaces.
* Consider placing parking under cover that —

complies with the above measures.

Encourage Low Impact Development (LID) and Green
Infrastructure practices in all projects.

Shade structure outside of the Salt Lake City Public Safety building also
serves as a solar power generator.



EEA 5 TURNS RD SRE i Se ESS SE eb SSS Cr an 5 RRC NR SEES IEEE eS EE oN GILLS GLE TAGES. vd SPURTE EV

Murray City Center District | 21

Provide systems that reduce water use.
Recycle organic matter.
Ensure development does not impact water quality.

Design functional stormwater features as amenities
« Provide a connection to the local climate and
hydrology by integrating aesthetically pleasing
stormwater features that are visually and physically
accessible and manage on-site stormwater.

Control and manage invasive plants.

« Limit damage to local ecosystem services
A natural water filtration system is being used at the confluence of Red by developing and implementing an active
Butte Creek and the Jordan River. management plan for the control and subsequent
management of known invasive plants found on
site, and by ensuring that no invasive species are
brought to the site.

Divert construction and demolition materials from
disposal.

* Support a net-zero waste site and minimize down-
cycling of materials by diverting, reusing, or
recycling construction and demolition materials
to avoid disposal in landfills or combustion in
incinerators.

Support nutrient cycling, improve soil health, and reduce
transportation costs and materials going to landfills by
recycling vegetation trimmings or food waste to generate
compost and mulch.

Incorporating shade structures along pedestrian paths reduce the amount
of heat put off by a building and reduces energy use.

a a ET SE RL


22 | Public Spaces and Streetscape Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 04
Streetscape

Street trees should beincluded throughout the downtown.
Benefits to the district from street trees include:

+ Buffering and protecting pedestrians from
automobile traffic.

* Providing visual traffic calming.

* Shaping pedestrian spaces and pathways.

* Absorbing stormwater runoff, UV pollutants and
reducing the urban heat island effect.

+ Enhancing retail viability and economics of the
district.

Street trees provide an added physical barrier between traffic and the

pedestrian.

! Mt

Fully grown street trees provide shade for pedestrians making their way
through the district.



Murray City Center District | 23

Sidewalks should be designed to enhance the pedestrian
experience.

Provide broader sidewalks, weather-protected seating,
and real-time scheduling for transit users at bus stop
locations.

Align trees and other sidewalk landscape features to
provide a direct and continuous path of travel.

Create public-private transition zones through the use
of outdoor dining and display space that draws the
pedestrian in.

Enhance safety through way-finding, lighting, and

Wide sidewalks allow for a lot of people to simultaneously move . : ae
throughout the street. consideration of visibility.

~ @ Eccles Theater
¥ @ City Creek

Install way-finding to help guide pedestrians through spaces and spark
curiosity to explore new spaces.


24 | Public Spaces and Streetscape Guidelines

Curbside management should be considered as a
component of the streetscape.

* Reduce the number of curb cuts wherever possible.
+ Provide and regulate loading zones.

* Consider and provide for the use of metered
parking.

* Promote curbside parking.

* Include upgraded bus/transit stop amenities such
as shelters, ADA ramps, garbage cans, etc.

* Consider and provide for the integration of public
transportation, active transportation, micro-
transit, and ride sharing within public and private
streetscapes.

Providing metered parking allows for maximization of on-street parking and
provides a revenue stream for enforcement.


Murray City Center District | 25

Arecently upgraded bus stop has been designed to allow for all potential users, regardless of ability.


26 | Public Spaces and Streetscape Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 05
Public Space

Design public open space to connect with and
complement the streetscape.
- Differentiate street trees from site trees.

* Incorporate civic art in both public and private
development. Consider site factors such as
circulation and adjacent uses when selecting and
placing temporary or permanent art.

* Use designs geared to those with disabilities and
the able bodied that are equal.

Provide visual/spatial complexity in public spaces.

Where feasible, include public art installations throughout
the district.

Make public spaces interactive.

* Provide play areas for a variety of ages and
groups. Design landscape with opportunities for
experiences of nature and varied, challenging play
elements.

* Provide individual and group recreation amenities
to encourage physical activity, including courts or
game boards.

* Design public spaces and art installations that
encourage social activity, play, and rest.

Provide movable seating and visual interest to public spaces, such as this
space in Seattle.


Murray City Center District | 27

Orient and design publicly accessible open space to
maximize physical comfort and visual access.

¢ Consider solar orientation, weather exposure,
shading, shadowing, noise, and wind.

* Locate open spaces so they are physically and
visually accessible from the sidewalk.

« Use trees to provide shade and buffer from wind
or exposure.

i ai ih | i + Promote curbside parking.
i iil =
iy = | Include seating in public spaces to encourage use and
i =i enjoyment of the area.
Note the empty plaza space in direct sun, and the shaded area next to the « Include seating and tables in a variety of ways for
building. people to sit alone, in pairs, and in small or large

groups. Use movable seating if possible.

« Enclose and define seating areas with low walls
or vegetation. Provide comfortable seating in sun
and shade.

* Design seating for casual gathering in both sunny
and shaded locations and in both quiet and active
zones where possible.

- Use planters, ledges, and low walls (approximately
18 inches tall) to provide places for people to view,
socialize, and rest.

* Tocreate asense of enclosure, define seating areas
with low walls, fences, vegetation, or topography.
Walls, fences, and vegetation can also break, guide,
deflect, or filter the wind and thereby mitigate its

Example of public seating that also is used as a planter effects.



28 | Development Site Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 06
Circulation

Consider how and where people will move on the site and
within the district.

Limit development which closes streets. Create
developments with connectivity and human scaled
circulation.

Minimize automobile access conflicts with pedestrians
and cyclists.

Minimizing conflict with pedestrians not only protects people but allows for
vehicular traffic to move more consistently.



Oa a a ST Se ns a GT AL EERE (apn ee EN SI aE ee

Murray City Center District | 29

i, uF,
us é °
Tees Cesena

aw

5
= pitlil
“anpbbeeeeta ©

5 |Proposed CETL

Creating and planning for a system of uniform blocks allow for parking areas to be located behind the building and interior courtyards that can be used as parking
or outdoor amenity space.



30 | Development Site Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 07
Open Space

Use landscape, structures, and buildings to define spaces
while, at the same time, providing visual access to
encourage their use and enhance safety.

Provide ample seating throughout the site.

Define space by planting trees:
* In rows to define a border.
* In groves to define a specific area.

+ — Individually to offer a special place to gather.

Ensure new developments have parks and open space
opportunities.

Avoid open spaces or elements that are privatized and
exclude the public.

Avoid conflicts between pedestrians and_ utility
equipment.



Murray City Center District | 31



aa SS SEI ARNT LOAM TT SE ESE Ia

32 | Development Site Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 08
Active Buildings

Develop and express programmatic relationships
between inside and outside by the use of furniture,
displays, signage, and landscaping to help animate the
building edge and sidewalk.

Consider how the rhythm of the street wall and level of
detail at the ground floor correspond to walking speed.

Program public space to support adjacent interior uses.

Including different types of signage creates visual interest and informs
pedestrians as they pass by.

A building that contributes to an active street through the use of ground
floor use and eyes on the street.



Murray City Center District | 33

Opposite side of the street in the image to the left, these two projects
encourage walking by the use of shops, and eyes on the street.



Seen TRS ET as ia CSRS Sin

tas is Sas Se Se ee

34 | Development Site Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 09
Parking

Make parking areas large so that they can be shared
between users or small so they are intended for individual
sites.

+ Site design should promote sharing larger parking
areas among multiple developments where
necessary. This allows for the possibility of smaller
parking areas immediately adjacent to specific
buildings.

Minimize conflicts between pedestrians and automobiles
by locating building entrances away from curb cuts.

Locate bike racks near building entrances and other areas
of activity to maximize visibility and convenience.

Be purposeful in the placement of entrances and provide
distinction between service entries and primary entries
where possible.

¢ Locate primary entrances that face the street as
opposed to rear/parking lot entrances that should
be used for back of house operations.

* Provide transportation facilities such as alternative
fuel refueling stations.

a A

Include ample amounts of parking within structures and make the structure
available to the public.



Murray City Center District | 35

Bike racks near the entrance to Murray’s Fire Station 81 in the City Center. Providing dedicated parking spaces for alternative fuel vehicles encourages
their use and promotes sustainability.



A SE BN ESTAS EWSNTE SRS S OI  T  S

36 | Development Site Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 10
Neighbor Awareness

Provide a cohesive expression or composition of
neighborhood compatible components.

Modulate buildings both vertically and horizontally.

Design sites to improve or augment existing land uses,
open space, and building patterns

Increase awareness of Murray City’s history and heritage
through monuments or markers which indicate historic
sites and their significance.

Though this is all one building, there is enough modulation that gives it a
unique and appealing physical quality.

we
we

ALLEN.

Example of a marker denoting a historic site.



Murray City Center District | 37

NO



aa cS SENN RRO EU ESTE SPS SAC a PES is SDDS EA REPENS SOE NR i ea

38 | Development Site Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 11
Meaningful Light

Lighting should enhance the pedestrian experience.

Design lighting which takes dark sky principles into
account.

Design private lighting to complement the standards that
are required for public spaces and streets.

Use lighting to provide safety to pedestrians in parking
areas.

High efficiency, downward facing LED lighting is used at this pedestrian
crossing.

Lighting can provide an artistic feel.

CS EI SE BIE TREE PT RTT S|


Murray City Center District | 39

THAT WAS auiTe
WHEN|vVouU'D GET
THERE YOU MIGHT
GET. TWENTY: BUCKS
SILVER DOLLARS:

<A

SRI I SSS
SKK SSS:
LIES STASI SISA

Use pedestrian scaled lighting to increase comfort



40 | Architectural Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 12
Design For Potential

Design any ground floor use, including parking areas,
with the potential to convert all or a portion of the area to
retail or commercial space. Typically, a minimum floor to
ceiling height of 12’ would allow such a conversion.

Design upper floors of parking garages as level as possible
to allow for conversion to office or residential uses in the
future.

Ground floor residential units in this Salt Lake City multifamily project are
tall enough that they can be converted to commercial at a later date.


Murray City Center District | 41

BERGEES RILLES

The second and third floors are designed in such a way that would allow for enclosure and conversion to office or residential uses.


42 | Architectural Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 13
Connection to the Ground

Avoid long frontages without active entries. Widths
between entrances should fit a common neighborhood
pattern.

Sculpt massing to harmonize with the rhythm of adjacent
buildings and add human-scaled ground floors.

Long, windowless walls prohibit visual connection
between the inside of the building and the sidewalk.
* People inside have no knowledge of those on the
street and people on the street cannot see inside.

* Walls with no windows can project the sense that
people outside are not to be trusted and that the
area is not populated.

Human-scaled entrances with translucent windows make people feel
comfortable entering a space.

Blank walls create a sense of unease and make the pedestrian feel unsafe.


Murray City Center District | 43

Multiple building entrances on large buildings are
encouraged.

Protect the pedestrian where the building meets the
street (canopies, arcades, etc.).

Accentuate primary entrances.
Proportion the scale, the amount of transparency, and
the character of entrances at the ground floor to the type

of uses and street interaction.

Lower floors should be differentiated architecturally from
their upper floors.

Pronounced primary entrances through the use of paint or unique signage a .
entice pedestrians to explore shops. The street level of buildings should support multi-tenant

and pedestrian-oriented development.

Bi?
re
Hl shill iN )

imtue . 4

Pedestrian protection through the use of arcades.


44 | Architectural Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 14
Connection to the Sky

Design roofs and walls to generate renewable energy.

Design roofs and walls to provide habitat supportive
vegetation.

Use green roofs where feasible.

ee a a

Design wall and roof fenestration to enhance natural ice
lighting without negatively impacting interior comfort.

Shape the roof of buildings.

Utilize rooftops as amenities. This not only allows for public space but can
also help control the costs associated with heating and cooling.

The LDS Conference Center in Salt Lake City utilizes their roof as a gathering
space.


Murray City Center District | 45

The four photos above provide different ways in which roof termination can impact the buildings character. This should be considered when designing or
proposing a building.


46 | Architectural Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 15
Fenestration and Porosity

Windows should be used to create a feeling of openness,
trust, and turn the eyes to the street.

Avoid or minimize expansive blank and blind walls at the
ground floor to create a welcome pedestrian area.

Use generous facade openings.
Create a rhythm of highly transparent storefront and
multi-story windows to provide a strong visual image that

people recognize and associate with commercial activity.

Provide natural ventilation to reduce energy use and
allow access to air flow.

. . . . Clear windows allow for people to see inside and be seen.
Where feasible, provide pedestrian and_ bicycle

connections through blocks using paseos, mid-block
paths, and trails.

Mid-block crossing that connects multiple buildings


Murray City Center District | 47

A pedestrian walkway that connects to an interior plaza. This plaza then
connects to the nearby Hidden Hollow Park and Parleys Canyon Trail.

— amet a

taba SD ccs br ea in spit She.

The public street connects to the interior plaza. Note that there is no
indication and allows for surprise and curiosity as a pedestrian.


48 | Architectural Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 16
Express a Clear Organizing Idea

Make architectural concepts clear, compelling, and
compatible with a site’s context.

Render building facades with texture and depth.

Employ passive solar design in facade configurations,
treatments, and materials.

Though each building is different, each contributes to a cohesive whole.

Example of a new commercial building that was built with texture and
depth that fits in with its neighboring residential uses.


Murray City Center District | 49

N

SNS Nh
¥\

Vk
hy

VF

Contemporary building with depth and texture, the fins on the windows are used as a passive solar device to help shade the interior of the building.


50 | Architectural Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 17
Private Space

Provide upper story balconies where appropriate to allow
interface between private and public space.

Include operable windows and movable seating to help
animate a building.

Integrate windows, courtyards, balconies, and wind
breaks adjacent to plazas and gathering spaces to provide
more opportunity for human interaction and connection
between inside and outside uses.

Provide opportunities for people to move through private
space to shorten the distance between destinations.

Examples of operable windows and private balcony that provide eyes on
the street.

Movable furniture in a public space allows for people to move where it is
comfortable.


Murray City Center District | 51

Permeable private space adjacent to the public right-of-way allows for more The trees in this small courtyard help to limit the amount of wind that
interaction between people. passes through the space.

Balconies and large windows allow for people to see and be seen along a Courtyard space adjacent to the public right of way promotes lingering to
street. passersby.


52 | Architectural Guidelines

GUIDELINE: 18
Materiality

Buildings made entirely of glass should be avoided.

Traditional elements provide horizontal and vertical
modulation. For example:
¢ Pronounced entries,

* Architectural banding,
* Primary verticals (windows),

* Strong roof termination.

Consider meaningful adaptations for contemporary
projects to address the same scale or rhythm of familiar
inflections.

Examples of architectural banding, primary verticals and strong roof
termination.

ie

Contemporary example of a strong roof termination.


Murray City Center District | 53

L.,
i

IRS
AMMAN

A mix of materials including brick, glass, and metal on a building assist in additional visual interest, as shown in these two images.


Murray City Center District | 55

PHOTO
CREDITS

A



56 | Photo Credits

All photographs were taken by the Murray City Planning Division except as listed below.

Page 6 GSBS Architecture, 2018

Page 7 GSBS Architecture, 2018

Page 11 Top Right Murray City Mayor’s Office

Page 11 Bottom Right Murray City Mayor’s Office

Page 14 Photo by Krisztina Papp on Unsplash

Page 15 Copyright 2016 Karla S Farrell, AICP (CC BY-NC 4.0), from the American Planning Association’s
Image Library.

Page 16 Photo by Kelly Wilson (CC BY-NC 4.0). Copyright 2015 American Planning Association.

Page 22 Top Copyright 2016 Kelly Wilson (CC BY-NC 4.0), from the American Planning Association’s Image
Library.

Page 23 Top GSBS Architecture, 2018 —

Page 24 Scott Nebeker, 2015 - https://www.google.com/maps/@40.7594744,-111.8822326,3a,90y,
65.67h,93.16t/data=!3m8!1e1!3m6!1sAF1QipM1lswghsCkEoYPv8IqUoulj3Nexg-MtYmX5m-
BR!2e10!3e11!6shttps:%2F%2Flh5.googleusercontent.com%2Fp%2FAF1QipM1lswghsCkE-
oYPv8IqUoulj3Nexg-MtYmX5mMBR%3Dw203-h100-k-no-pi-0-ya228.74315-ro-0-f0100!7i8868!
814434

Page 30 Google Street View, May 2019 - https://www.google.com/maps/@40.7499672,-
111.8967361,3a,75y,79.29h,91.46t/data=!3m6!1e1!3m4!1srzB2nXq325e_lpkZ_12x-
7A!2e0!7116384!8i8192

Page 48 The Conference Center roof with mountain and prarie meadows, looking south; The Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Utah. By user Ricardo630 Ricardo630
01:34, 29 April 2006 (UTC)

—


Murray City Corporation
Community and Economic Development
Planning Division
Adopted March 8th, 2022
