ORDINANCE NO. 22-22

AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE TRANSFER OF MONIES FROM
ENTERPRISE FUNDS TO OTHER CITY FUNDS

PREAMBLE

Section 10-6-135.5 of the Utah Code requires the City to provide notice of the
proposed transfers, to hold an “enterprise fund hearing”, and to provide “enterprise fund
accounting data” to the public. Further, section 10-6-135.5 of the Utah Code requires
certain notices to be provided after the City adopts a budget which includes the transfer
of enterprise funds to other City funds.

The City provided notice that included an explanation of the proposed transfer of
enterprise funds to other City funds; the specific enterprise fund information, as defined
in the Utah Code, the date, time, and place of the enterprise fund hearing, and the
purpose of the enterprise fund hearing. A notice was mailed to users of the various
enterprises in their most recent billings, which were mailed more than seven (7) days prior
to the enterprise fund hearing. On May 27, 2022, the notice was posted on the Utah Public
Notice Website, and published on the City’s website. The date, time, place, and purpose
of the enterprise fund hearing was also published on the City’s social media platform at

i least seven (7) days prior to the enterprise fund hearing.

On June 7, 2022 the City held an “enterprise fund hearing” regarding the proposed
transfer of enterprise fund monies to other City funds. At this hearing, the City explained
the proposed transfer of enterprise fund money to other City funds, provided to the public
the enterprise fund accounting data, as defined in the Utah Code, and received and
considered any public input regarding both the proposed transfers and the enterprise fund -
accounting data.

On August 9, 2022, the City intends to adopt a budget that includes a transfer of
money from an enterprise fund to another fund.

THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Murray City Municipal Council as follows: -

Section 1. Enactment.

The City hereby adopts the transfer of enterprise fund money to other City funds,
as outlined in the City’s fiscal year 2022-2023 budget. Accordingly, pursuant to section
10-6-135.5 of the Utah Code, the City shall provide the following notices:

1. Within sixty (60) days of adopting the budget, the City shall mail a notice to the
i users of the goods or services provided by the enterprise an announcement of the


adoption of a budget that includes an enterprise fund transfer to another fund, and
shall include the specific enterprise fund information; and

2. Within seven (7) days after adopting the budget, the City shall post the enterprise
fund accounting data on its website and publish on its social media platform an
announcement of the adoption of a budget that includes the transfer of money from
an enterprise fund to another City fund; and

3. Within thirty (30) days of adopting the fiscal year 2022-2023 budget, the City shall
submit to the State Auditor the specific enterprise fund information for each
enterprise fund from which money will be transferred.

Section 2. Effective Date.

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 7" day of June, 2022.

a NY, STAM MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
Japa ee, “Onl
a - A GC: () ;
Z2>: “Sy
Y -s 124
f a wh
Wo - 1803 xf Kat Martinez, Chair
"On. f
\ ay) i aie tal
“ SOR ATE “Ss
ATTEST: “Wincnagall™

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

2) TO naib to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this| > day of
, 2022.



MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

mae 4
DATED this |9 dayof JUn€ 2022

bine AM, Cfo
Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the _|~4 day of - VAW9, 2022.

—_

—_—

co =<

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

