ORDINANCE NO. 22-15

AN ORDINANCE ENACTING SECTION 12.24.175 OF THE MURRAY CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO ESTABLISH CERTAIN
PARKS AND RECREATION RELATED FEES.

Preamble

Murray City is committed to providing outstanding public parks, recreation facilities,
recreation programs, and cultural art and history programs. The increasing demands for
additional park usage, recreation programs/facilities and services, combined with rising
operating and capital costs, make it challenging to maintain existing levels of service.

Murray City Parks and Recreation offers a wide range of facilities, programs and
services including parks, aquatic programs, recreation classes, senior services, athletics
leagues/programs, youth enrichment programs, cultural art and history programs and
special events. The City Parks and Recreation collects a variety of program and facility
use fees but is still primarily supported by the City’s General Fund.

The City Council wants to give the Mayor authority to set all user fees and pricing
strategies working with the Parks and Recreation Department Advisory Board and staff.
This will enable the City to quickly respond to market trends and community needs by
implementing pricing methods as appropriate to meet financial sustainability.

To identify effective cost recovery rates, the Mayor may use national benchmark
information, local market conditions, and user survey information for all parks and
recreation programs and services.

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to enact Section 12.24.175
of the Murray City Municipal Code authorizing the Mayor to establish certain Parks and
Recreation related fees.

Section 2. Enact Section 12.24.175. Section 12.24.175 of the Murray City

Municipal Code authorizing the Mayor to establish certain Parks and Recreation related
fees:

12.24.175 PARKS AND RECREATION FEES:

A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to authorize the Mayor to establish fees
related to the use of Parks and Recreation facilities, participation in Parks and
Recreation programs, and all other services provided by the Parks and Recreation
Department.


B. With the exception of the Murray Park Center Membership fees, the Murray
Parkway Golf Course Green Fees and Rentals, and the Murray Park Outdoor swimming
pool fees, the Mayor shall establish all Parks and Recreation related fees.

C. Fees shall be established by the Mayor in a written schedule and shall be in
amounts reasonably necessary to recover some of the costs of providing the programs
and services. A written schedule of the fees shall be available for public inspection in
the Parks and Recreation Department office and posted on the City’s website.

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on

this 8'" day of March, 2022.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

At = ~ ,
\eaN ‘eas A); LEP phirz

% Kat Martinez, Chair

ATTEST:
Brooke Smith, A Recorder

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

oT
DATED this 2\” day of (Van 2022

7. Pe —

Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder


CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published

according to law on the A day of Ma -2022.

gs Smith, f Recorder
