ORDINANCE NO. 23-04

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 17.170.120, 17.170.140, AND
17.170.160 OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
THE MURRAY CITY CENTER DISTRICT (MCCD) ZONE.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend sections
17.170.120, 17.170.140, and 17.170.160 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to
the Murray City Center District (MCCD) zone.

Section 2. Amendment of sections 17.170.120, 17.170.140, and 17.170.160 Murray
City Municipal Code. Sections 17.170.120, 17.170.140, and 17.170.160 of the Murray
City Municipal Code relating to the Murray City Center District (MCCD) zone shall be
amended to read as follows

17.170.120: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:

The following height restrictions shall apply in the MCCD Zone.

F. New buildings located east of State Street and south of Vine Street shall not
exceed six (6) stories in height or seventy feet (70’), whichever is less.

G. Public or quasi-public utility buildings and structures are exempt from the minimum
height regulations above. This exemption does not include office buildings for public or
quasi-public utility companies. (Ord. 21-21: Ord. 19-40)

17.170.140: PARKING REGULATIONS:

This section establishes the standards for the amount, location, and development of
motor vehicle parking, standards for bicycle parking, and standards for on-site loading
areas in the MCCD. Other titles of this code and guidelines of the MCCD may regulate
other aspects of parking and loading.:

A. General Regulations: The regulations of this chapter apply to all parking areas in
the MCCD, whether required by this code or constructed for the convenience of
property owners or users. Parking areas include those that are accessory to a use, part
of a commercial parking use, or for a park and ride facility in the community services
use category.

2. Calculation Of Required And Allowed Parking:


f. For developments east of State Street and south of Vine Street, one-half (0.5)
parking spaces per unit shall be provided in addition to the standard parking
requirements under this section.

B. Requirement Of Parking Spaces: The purpose of required parking spaces is to
provide enough on-site parking to accommodate the majority of traffic generated by the
range of uses which might locate at the site over time. Mixed-use sites that are located
in close proximity to transit, have good street connectivity, and good pedestrian facilities
may need less off-street parking than other types of development. The MCCD Zone
encourages the inclusion of transit supportive plazas and bicycle parking to encourage
transit use and bicycling by employees and visitors to the site, reducing the need for off-
street vehicle parking over time. The required parking numbers correspond to broad use
categories, not specific uses, in response to this long term emphasis. Provision of
carpool parking located close to the building entrance will encourage carpool use.

1. Parking Requirements East And West Of State Street: The residential and
commercial parking requirements for developments and redevelopment of property in
the MCCD Zone are contained in Table D, below.

ee __ Table D: Parking Requirements
Parking Spaces Required
Table D: Parking Requirements

_Parking Spaces Required _

| Residential, Studio | space per r unit

| Residential, 1-bedroom |i. 05 spaces per unit |

| Residential, 2-bedroo bedroom 11. 5 spaces per unit

| Residential, 3-bedroom + | 2. 5 spaces per unit

__| 1 space per 500 ft? net usable floor area

| Medical/Dental Offices &Clinics [1 space per 500 ft? net usable floor area_

| Retail/Commercial |_| space per 5 500 ft? ne net usable { floor area ee

Restaurants/Eating & Drinking 2
| Establishments 1 space per 500 ft* net usable floor area

| As determined by the Planning Commission based on
Uses not listed
| comparable standards

Disabled/ADA Accessible See section 17.72.040 of this title. Other requirements per the
| Americans with Disabilities Act

| Parking i In excess of 125% of minimum | Allowed as approved by the Planning Commission if provide
requirements | within structures or the building envelope



Developments east of State Street and

south of Vine Street An additional 0.5 spaces per unit

17.170.160: LANDSCAPING, OPEN SPACE, AND PROJECT AMENITIES:

E. Where new plant materials are to be used, indigenous species should be
included. Appropriate, indigenous species of plant materials and trees will be
established by Community and Economic Development staff.

1. Up to 25% of landscaping and amenity areas may include turf where an active
purpose or function make it necessary. Where turf is specified, an eco-lawn mix shall
be used. However, the planning commission may consider and approve exceptions to
the maximum 25% turf if it can be demonstrated that the design of the landscaping will
provide usable, publicly accessible open space as part of the development.

H. 1. Fifteen percent (15%) of the area of each project shall be developed as
_landscaped setbacks, public plazas, parks open spaces, or walkways. In addition, each
project shall have a system of pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide
connections betweety building entrances, neighboring building entrances, sidewalks,
parking areas, open: ‘spaces, and walkways. Landscaped amenity areas provided i In
conjunction with multi-family uses will qualify as open space.

2. For ‘developments east of State Street and south of Vine Street, twenty-five
percent (25%) of thé area of each project shall be developed as landscaped setbacks,
public plazas, parks open spaces, or walkways. In addition, each project shall have a
system of pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide connections between
building entrances, neighboring building entrances, sidewalks, parking areas, open
spaces, and walkways. Landscaped amenity areas provided in conjunction with multi-
family uses will qualify as open space.

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 7 day of March, 2023.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

chkosy, Chair


Brooke Smith, City Recorder

| Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this 2.2 day of

, 2023.

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

DATED this 22k ot Nase 2023.

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, a Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| ee ad that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
ay of WUaLanw 2023.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder =

to law on the

