ORDINANCE NO. 23-01

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.04.050 OF THE MURRAY CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING ELECTRONIC PAYMENT FEES

BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend section 3.04.050
of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to electronic payment fees.

Section 2. Amendment to section 3.04.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code.
Section 3.04.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be amended to read as
follows:

3.04.050: ACCEPTED PAYMENTS; SERVICE FEE FOR RETURNED CHECKS AND
DISHONORED CREDIT CHARGES:

A. The City, in its sole discretion, may accept any form of legal payment for any
amounts due to the City.

B. Electronic Payment Fees.

| 1. As used in this section: 7

"Electronic payment" means the payment’ ‘of money fb the City by electronic
means, including by means of a credit card, charge card, debit card, prepaid or stored
value card or similar device, or automatic clearinghouse transaction. ra

“Electronic payment fee" means an amount of money to defray the discount fee,
processing fee, or other fee charged by a credit card company or processing agent to
process an electronic payment.

“Processing agent" means a bank, transaction clearinghouse, or other third party
that charges a fee to process an electronic payment.

2. The City may charge an electronic payment fee to defray the discount fee,
processing fee, or other fee charged by a credit card company or processing agent to
_ process an electronic payment.

3. Electronic payment fees shall be established by the Mayor and shall be
itemized separately on the invoice, charge slip, or receipt, and shall be disclosed to the
payer at the time the transaction occurs.

4. A payer making an electronic payment must pay the electronic payment
fee established by the Mayor.


C. The City may charge a service fee against the drawer, maker or issuer of any
method of payment in favor of the City if the payment is dishonored upon first
presentment by the bank or institution upon which it is drawn. The service fee for
dishonored checks, or debit or credit cards, shall equal twenty dollars ($20.00) or the
service fee identified in Utah Code section 7-15-1(2)(b), or its successor, whichever is
greater. Service fees may be added to the amount owing to the City, as represented by
the dishonored instrument. The City may treat the bill or account sought to be paid by
the dishonored instrument as unpaid until both the original billing and the service fee
penalty amount have been received in cash or equivalent secure method of payment as
may be required by the City. The assessment and collection of the service fee shall not
preclude the initiation of appropriate civil or criminal proceedings against the issuer or
maker of the dishonored instrument. (Ord. 17-17)

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 10" day of January 2023.

a “oy MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
7 > a”

Garry echkosy, Chair

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this \ 2"Way of lw er¢s 2023.

4 K Hales, Mayor



ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published

according to law on the’ DYaay of Vai Arran Q023. ;

ZE Smith, City Recorder
