ORDINANCE NO. 23-09

| AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 15.20.250, OF THE MURRAY CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO ELECTRICAL SERVICE SCHEDULE 35
FOR SOLAR RATES.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 7. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Section
15.20.250 relating to Electrical Service Schedule 35 for Solar Rates.

Section 2. Amendment to the Electric Service Schedule 35 for Solar Rates of
Section 15.20.250 of the Murray City Municipal Code. Section 15.20.250 of the Murray
City Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Chapter 15.20
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS

i 15.20.250: ELECTRIC SERVICE SCHEDULE 35; NET METERING PROGRAM

A. Applicability: The net metering program is available to customers located within the
City's current electrical service territory who:

1. Purchase electricity from the City under the provisions of another electric service
schedule; and

2. Own and operate a solar, wind, or hydroelectric generator located on the
customer's premises that:

a. ls primarily intended to offset part or all of the customer's own electrical
requirements on the premises;

b. For schedule 1 customers - has a capacity of no more than ten kilowatts
(10 kW);

c. For schedule 3, 9 and 13 customers — has a capacity of no more than a
net alternating current (AC) output equal to 100% of a customer's annual
peak demand in kilowatts or five hundred (500) kilowatts, whichever is
less;

i d. Is interconnected with Murray City's electric system; and

e. Operates in parallel with the City's distribution system.


B. Definitions: As used in this section:

NET ENERGY: The difference between the electricity supplied by the City to the
customer through the City's electric distribution system and the electricity generated on
the customer's premises which is fed back into the City's electric distribution system.

NET METERING: A method of measuring the difference between the electricity supplied
by the City to the customer through the City's electric distribution system and the
electricity generated on the customer's premises which is fed back into the City's
electric distribution system.

C. Special Conditions:

1. The customer shall pay for the net energy used in accordance with the following
formula:

a. The customer shall pay for all electric energy supplied by the City to the
customer in any billing period in excess of the amount of electric energy
produced by the customer on the premises which is fed back into the
City's electric distribution system during that same billing period.

b. The customer shall receive a credit for all electric energy produced by the
customer on the premises which is fed back into the City's electric
distribution system during a billing period in excess of the amount of
electric energy supplied by the City during that billing period, with such
credit applied to the customer's future bills, except that any electric energy
credit balance remaining in favor of the customer under the provisions of
this subsection C1b at the time of their April billing each year shall be
zeroed out with no further liability to the City and no credit to the customer
for said balance.

c. In the event the customer terminates service under this electric service
schedule, any electric energy credit balance in favor of the customer
under the provisions of subsection C1b of this section shall be forfeited.
The City will not make cash payments to customers based on their
participation in the net metering program for energy produced by the
customer which is fed into the City’s electric distribution system.

2. The price for electric energy provided to or credited to a customer participating in
the net metering program shall be the price charged by the City under the
provisions of the electric service schedule for which the customer receives
service absent this electric service schedule 35.

Participating customers are subject to all other charges, rates, terms and
2

3. The net metering program billing adjustment only applies to charges for energy. i


conditions of the electric service schedule under which the customer receives
service except as expressly altered by this electric service schedule 35.

4. The customer shall provide, at the customer's own expense, all equipment
necessary to meet applicable safety, power quality, and interconnection
requirements established by the National Electrical Code (NEC), the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Underwriters Laboratories (UL), and
any applicable local and State agencies, including any equipment deemed
necessary by the City's Power Department expressly to accommodate the
customer's request to qualify for this electric service schedule 35. The customer
must first obtain written approval from the City's Power Department before the
customer's on site generating system is energized or interconnected with the
City's electric system.

5. In order to participate in the City's net metering program and to receive the
benefits of this electric service schedule 35, the customer must first sign a net
metering program interconnection and service agreement with the City. The
interconnection and service agreement allows the customer to interconnect and
operate in parallel with the City's distribution system and allows the City to test
and inspect the customer's system periodically to ensure the safety of electrical
workers and integrity of the City's electric distribution system. The
interconnection and service agreement will contain additional terms and
conditions for service under this electric service schedule 35, including specific
terms of interconnection and parallel operation with the City's electrical system.

6. The net metering program and this electric service schedule 35 are presently
made available to customers on a trial basis. This electric service schedule 35
and the net metering program may be adjusted or discontinued by the Murray
City Municipal Council for any reason, at any time without any obligation to
existing participants.

D. Supply Cost Adjustment: All monthly bills resulting in a balance due from the
customer shall be adjusted in accordance with electric service schedule 30.

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 27'" day of June, 2023.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

SVU WAR)



ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

, 2023.

Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this gay of

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

DATED this val day of ¢ \A vas , 2023

An
rett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the Fol day of _« YA va , 2023.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

