ORDINANCE NO. 24-17

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY LAND USE REGULATION
PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED SECTION 10-9A-504 RELATING
TO SHORT TERM RENTALS.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:
PREAMBLE

Section 10-9a-504 of the Utah Code Annotated grants the City authority to enact
an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for all of the area within the
City without prior consideration or recommendation from the Planning Commission for a
period not to exceed six (6) months.

The popularity of short-term rentals has grown significantly across the country
and reportedly in the City over the last decade. With this rapid growth, the City Council
(“Council”) is concerned with short term rentals within the City that are operating without
licenses or are not being regulated in any way. In addition, the Council is interested in
addressing how to best manage the consequences of short-term rentals operating
within the City. While some of these consequences may be positive, there are also
many potential issues and negative side-effects that the Council desires to mitigate by
adopting sensible regulations.

While the Council is aware that there are certain benefits to individual citizens
and to communities associated with short-term rentals, the Council is equally aware that
many of the potential adverse effects of short-term rentals are borne by the nearby
neighbors and surrounding communities which may not be receiving any of the positive
benefits. Unregulated short-term rental use within the City can lead to increased traffic
from renters that has the potential to slowly transform peaceful residential communities
into tourist communities which lack a feeling of “community”. Short-term renters may
not always know (or follow) local rules, resulting in increased public safety risks, noise
or nuisance complaints, or trash and parking problems for other nearby residents. The
conversion of residential units into short-term rentals can result in less availability of
affordable housing options and higher rents for long-term renters in the community.

The Council has serious concerns that the lack of more specific rules and
regulations make it difficult to address the impacts caused by short-term rentals
throughout the City. Regulating short-term rentals is a complex and time-consuming
task. Balancing the interests of homeowners and residents while ensuring compliance
and fair.enforcement, as well as implementing effective regulations to address rapidly
evolving concerns around safety, licensing, taxation, zoning, and neighborly conduct as
it relates to short-term rentals requires careful planning and resources.


The Council has determined it is in the best interest of the City, in the protection
of public health, safety and welfare, to allow City staff time to gather information and
consider the relevant issues concerning short-term rentals in order to consider if
additional regulations are necessary and appropriate and to determine the best possible
approach for such regulation under the Constitution of the United States and the laws of
the State of Utah.

In order to preserve the status quo pending further analysis of the regulation of
short-term rentals, the Council has determined that a six-month temporary moratorium
should be imposed upon the issuance of any land use or other required approvals
(“approvals”) for the establishment of short-term rentals.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to establish a temporary
land use regulation prohibiting the issuance of any approvals for the establishment of
short-term rentals.

Section 2. That there be and hereby is imposed for a period not to exceed one
hundred eighty (180) days from the effective date of this ordinance a moratorium upon
the issuance of approvals for the establishment of short-term rentals. The City shall not
accept, process or approve any application related to the operation of any proposed
short-term rental.

Section 3. That during the one hundred eighty (180) day temporary land use
regulation period, the City staff shall work to develop and present to the City Council a
proposed ordinance or ordinances regulating short-term rentals and present to the City
Council in sufficient time that the ordinance(s), if adopted, may take effect prior to the
expiration of the one hundred eighty (180) day temporary land use regulation.

Section 4. In order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and allow
sufficient time to implement the policy goals and objectives of the City as more fully
described above, the Murray City Municipal Council hereby expressly invokes the
Pending Ordinance Doctrine with respect to this Temporary Land Use Regulation.

Section 5. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect July 23, 2024.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 23° day of July 2024.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

a AN STATe My

erty ~ Ontty
i a RAN
ge = . {
gs: ._@ Pam Cotter, Chair
jel in
4x. 4

a Che, a

Wor Fs ee 018 eA

WCORATE SS

TAA


ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this 2H ay of
, 2024.

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this BO" Yay or) 4 a 2024,
Lote.
Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

BEut

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby ce ySMy that this anaes or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the 2o' y of , 2024.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder
