ORDINANCE NO. 24-09

AN ORDINANCE RELATED TO LAND USE; AMENDS THE GENERAL
PLAN TO ADOPT THE MURRAY CITY CENTER DISTRICT (MCCD)
STRATEGIC AREA PLAN.

BACKGROUND

Chapter 3 of the 2017 Murray General Plan (the “General Plan”) presents a
“framework for the future” of Murray City (the “City”) and indicates that the primary goal
of the General Plan is to “guide growth to promote prosperity and sustain a high quality
of life for those who live, work, shop, and recreate in Murray.” Chapter 3 of the General
Plan identifies recommended “Small Area Planning Projects”, and the Downtown
Murray/City Center area, including the Murray City Center District (“MCCD") was
identified among such projects.

The MCCD Strategic Area Plan was developed in coordination with City staff, a
resident led steering committee, and outside consultants. The study area extends from
4800 South to Vine Street and State Street to Hanauer Street. The MCCD area holds
prime opportunities for historic preservation and rehabilitation, new development, and
improved multimodality. The proposed Strategic Area Plan has been carefully
considered based on public input and review of City planning best practices and
provides clear and objective goals for the City to move forward in implementing the
General Plan and furthering redevelopment in the downtown area. The proposed
amendment is in harmony with the goals and initiatives of the General Plan.

After hearing the matter and citizen comments, the Planning Commission
forwarded to the Council a favorable recommendation.

NOW, THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Municipal Council of Murray City as
follows:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to adopt amendments to
the General Plan.

Section 2. Amendment. The attached amendment to the General Plan,
specifically the MCCD Strategic Area Plan, is hereby adopted as part of the Murray City
General Plan.

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication
and filing of copy thereof in the office of the City Recorder of Murray City, Utah.


PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 7" day of May, 2024.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

fn

Pam Cotter, Council Chair

ATTEST:

i a City Recorder

re
Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this "1 Vy of
\V ex > 2024.

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

DATED this\ aay of\Maus. 2024 [
FA A. Hales, Mayor
ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, z) Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

hereby certify that this Ordinance was published according to law on the\ It — |

day of 72024.
1, whe Recorder []


Attachment

MCCD Strategic Area Plan


@ ar’ MURRAY

UTAH

DOWNTOWN
STRATEGIC
PLAN

PREPARED BY

ADOPTED a

Ravenna, OH



Introduction

Existing Conditions
Public Input Synopsis
Recommendations

Appendix

Murray City, Utah is situated directly south of Salt The project area extends from 4800 South to

Lake City by approximately 8 miles along Vine Street and State Street to Hanauer Street.
Interstate 15, Frontrunner commuter rail line, and The focus area of this project is a few blocks

the TRAX light rail red and blue lines. The City is north of Murray City Park and one block east of
within Salt Lake County and serves as a City Hall. The district is served by UTA Route 200,
commerce and transportation hub. In addition, which connects to Murray Central Station
Murray’s proximity to Salt Lake City and the (Frontrunner and TRAX). While Murray has

region makes it a popular residential community continued to grow and develop, the downtown
for the metro area. Popular community assets area holds prime opportunities for historic
include Murray City Park and its three nationally- preservation and rehabilitation, new

recognized historic districts, including the Murray development, and improved multimodality.

Downtown Historic District




EXISTING
CONDITIONS

O

NO



O2 / Existing Conditions i ———

Demographic Analysis @ co-teyees

5 30-34 years

QO 40-44 years
& 50-54 years jr
Population g 61-64 years } :
$ 70-74 years jm
-
Murray’s population has grown significantly over the past four census counts, = 80-84 years
limbing f 31,828 in 1990 to 50,637 in 2020, a 59.1% i ;
climbing from in ° in a increase. 0 9 4 6 8 10
ry 70,000
§ 60,000 —<————— — a - ae
S 50,000 ———_, =
SQ
29 40,000 ———_—___- == —oeee =
Sn ——— oa
24. 30,000 — SSS _ :
oD i
é ® 20000 oe Less than High School 4.32%
iy 10,000 : ——————— High school graduate / GED 21.03%
5 ee eee
2 1990 2000 2010 2020 Some college, no degree 26.59%
A iate's d F
Approximately 48.81% of residents are male, and 51.19% are female, a near-even split ssociates cegree a
consistent with most communities. The median age is 37.6 years, significantly higher Bachelor's degree 24.08%
than the state median; however, the city’s median is on par with that of the county
and nation. Graduate or professional degree 13.20%
_- Murray residents are highly educated, with 95.7% having a high school degree or
37.6 higher and 37.2% having a bachelor’s degree or higher.

years



Employment Commuting and Transportation Habits
For city residents, the following NAICS sectors are ranked from most common to For workers 16 years and over, 2021 80%

least common for industry employers. The median earnings in Utah for the commuting patterns were heavily auto-

dependent, with 79.0% of Murray
residents commuting by driving, of 40%
which 71.3% drove alone and 7.6% 20% |

60% |)
respective industry for the past 12 months, including part-time and full-time
employees, are listed in the right column. These figures do not include individuals
who work inside the city and live elsewhere, but only those living in the city. The

three most common sectors in Murray are retail trade (12.82%); educational services carpooled. Approximately 14.8% of 0% ed is .

(11.64%); and professional, scientific, and technical services (10.34%). residents worked from home, 3.5% && S £& © SK
commuted via public transit, 0.8% SF SF KS Ae F We
walked to work, 0.4% biked to work, and eo ¢ Ra we

MURRAY, UT RESIDENTS’ EMPLOYMENT BY SECTOR 16% commuted via other means: Re -
we

Extensive light and heavy passenger rail transect the city via UTA’s TRAX and
Frontrunner. Blue and red TRAX lines serve the city at the Murray North and Murray

: Central stations. The Frontrunner serves the city at the Murray Central station. While
Retell trade 3,540 12.82% $27.113 none of these rail lines connect to the historic downtown, Routes 200 and 45
connect the district to Murray Central station via bus service.

Health care and social

. 3,215 N.64% $35,430
assistance
Income and Poverty
Educational services 2.855 10.34% $34,301 Murray's median household income is $72,524. Murray's
Profesional ecientifi median household income has increased significantly
ro Ssstonat, roms i 2,534 918% $64,216 from $57,603 in 2011. The per capita income rose
and technical services . : ‘
slightly from $28,416 in 2011 to $39,482 in 2021. The
Finanee“and insurance 1950 7.06% $52.0 median income is $95,348 for families and $46,994 for
non-family households. $57,603 $72,524
Housing
The figures below represent the number of Murray residents employed in each Murray's housing stock consists of 21,046 (ACS 2021) ae
occupation. Utah median earnings are in the furthest right column for each NAICS compared to 19,498 in 2011, a 7.9% increase. The city’s ;
category. These figures are a cumulative earnings average over 12 months, including housing supply is primarily occupied (94.5%) with only
part-time and full-time employees. The three most common occupations in Murray 5.5% (1,162) of the units being vacant. Of the 19,884
are office and administrative support occupations (14.10%); management occupied units, 13,000 (65.4%) are owner-occupied,

occupations (12.09%); and sales and related occupations (10.73%). and 6,884 (34.6%) are renter-occupied. 19,498 21,046


O2 / Existing Conditions

Built Environment

A detailed baseline analysis of existing conditions is vital to formulating downtown
strategies and recommendations. This section outlines the results of a thorough SB
assessment, highlighting data retrieved from open-source databases and visual

inspections of downtown.

The built environment existing conditions analysis is broken down into the following
categories, acknowledging that each intersects with the others.

ea

funtit

The built environment existing conditions analysis focuses on outlining the current
conditions in the downtown area. Physical ailments, pedestrian uses, and even visible
or perceived roadblocks were identified, each providing a deeper level of
understanding to help plan for the future of Downtown Murray.



Overall Findings

Findings result from on-site investigations, aerial assessments, and
open-source databases. The information provided is not meant to
be a comprehensive list but begins to provide an understanding of
how an outsider witnesses Downtown, the interaction of residents,
and the overall downtown atmosphere. The findings are prepared to
outline general themes and do not propose to make assessments of
individual properties.

Built Environment

Surface parking lots constitute the majority of

the historic downtown area

A mismatch exists between the hist adi
POIBIOLE LENIGNS Pen ose DISLOe Downtown Murray has a strong building stock

along the west side of State Street with
setbacks characteristic of a downtown area
and building entrances facing the primary

district status and the area's urban design
elements

Pedestrian infrastructure is minimal, and transportation corridor. Buildings in this

bicycle-only infrastructure does not exist. corridor range from one to three stories with
regular fenestration.

Various occupants throughout the district

have resulted in a mixed-use downtown Surface parking lots with intermittent detached
buildings define most of the historic district.

The new City Hall, Hanauer Street, and other Downtown Murray's underutilized parking lots

public investments are a catalyst for change represent prime opportunities for new

development to further a walkable and

The RDA-owned properties are a prime economically viable district.

opportunity to expand the downtown's
footprint and improve the experience



“MULTAay mansion & chapel
Urban Design ihe flower house

@ STRAIGHT AHEAD

Urban design elements are critical in creating and
illuminating Downtown Murray's identity. The
nationally-recognized historic district has
opportunities to highlight its status to the public.
Currently, few elements exist to highlight this national

recognition. Map X: Crosswalks in Downtown Murray

A few street signs throughout the district mark its i :
status. However, these are rare, including on State 8 oS Pedestrian and Vehicular
Street, a UDOT-owned route. Without public-facing aT Circulation
placemaking elements that highlight the historic
district status, the public will likely not know about the
status.

Evenly-spaced traditional acorn street lighting lines
both sides of State Street; however, this does not
extend to the local roads. Street lighting has benefits
and consequences; it provides safety to drivers and
pedestrians but creates light pollution for adjacent
homeowners. Design choices can help minimize light
pollution.

Similarly, appropriate landscaping enhances the
existing buildings and streetscape along State Street,
but this does not extend to the local roads. A lack of
landscaping and tree coverage is particularly
noticeable compared to surrounding older
neighborhoods with excellent tree coverage. Shade is
essential for reducing the heat island effect of large
impervious areas, i.e., roads and parking lots.



Real estate and end-user
mix

Annual average daily traffic (AADT) estimates
how many cars travel daily along a specific \
street or street segment. This number is

Historic buildings define the nationally-
recognized historic downtown district. The City
recognizes numerous parcels as being

| historically significant, governed by §17.170.060
| of the Murray Land Use Ordinance.

typically derived by recording traffic counts for
an extended period on a particular road. After
the traffic counts have concluded, the numbers
are examined and determined to represent

normal traffic behavior; this data is then used to

create an annual daily average. L |
and Uses | . * oa gs -
| Historic buildings like these contribute to the
HB Commercial

The highest 2020 traffic volumes in Downtown GB civic district's unique character, sense of place, and
Murray are recorded on State Street (US-89), | BR Mixed Use attraction amidst significant new construction.
reaching nearly 36,527 vehicles per day. State | EB Parking N | There is an opportunity to leverage the historic
Street runs nearly parallel to I-15, west of l"% 0 100 200 inn ‘ real estate as the downtown seeks to blend its
downtown, connecting to Salt Lake City and other | rect history with the future.

suburban communities, 4800 S carries
Building occupants vary throughout the district.

Most commercial activity is concentrated along
State Street. This corridor has a mix of retail,
office, hotel, and service-based businesses.
Other commercial occupants are mixed
throughout the district.

approximately 7,000 to 9,000 vehicles per day,
and Vine Street east of State Street carries just
over 7,000 vehicles. Vine Street west of State
Street carries a much lower 1,994 vehicles per day

Most commercial occupants foster or are
compatible with pedestrian-oriented
environments, such as those in spaces facing
State St; however, a few are auto-oriented,
including drive-thru banks. All end-users have
available vehicle parking on the same parcel or
the same block, resulting in excess parking and
thus diminishing the walkable environment.

State Street (US 89) is Murray's main truck route
About 10% of the traffic on US 89 is truck traffic.

Trucking routes are essential to local and regional
economies, and the ability to move goods is
necessary for a comprehensive transportation
system. In Downtown Murray, accommodating
large tractor-trailers and passenger vehicles can
be challenging. In general, tractor-trailers take up

more space and require more time to come toa Average Annual

| Daily Traffic
complete stop. High noise levels, road debris, and (2020)
5 102
air pollution are also issues of concern. However,

| 1,994
designated truck routes and urban design — ia ll
strategies can help mitigate these challenges. L

0 100 = 200 400
a ee Ft



The existing conditions analysis highlighted strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities, and threats (SWOT) to Downtown Murray. These elements

e e e e
O 2/ Exi st i ng Co Nn d it Ions affect the downtown area's current condition and future trajectory.

SWOT Analysis Therefore, stakeholders should seek to build upon the strengths, improve
weaknesses, capitalize on opportunities, and neutralize threats.

Strenghts | Weaknesses Opportunities T/ Threats

1.Downtown Murray is a nationally- 1.Limited landscaping throughout the 1.Murray City is a regional retail 1. Tractor-trailer traffic along State
vi district increases the urban heat commercial destination. While most Street (US 89) is a significant source
island effect and makes pedestrian of the current shopping exists outside of noise and air pollution for the
gnizes numerou cels and bicyclist activity less pleasant. the downtown area, the destinations downtown area, especially as
historically significant 2.The urban design mismatch between are close and are well connected via passenger vehicles transition to
jowntown area is less than a mile the historic district status and the transit service. electric sources,
from a Frontrunner and Trax station - area's urban design elements 2.Murray City is a Certified Local 2.The speed limit of 40 miles per hour
Murray Central, providing a critical weakens the district's identity. Government (CLG) with the Utah along State Street is a threat to
non-vehicle connection to the entire 3.Minimal pedestrian infrastructure State Historic Preservation Office pedestrian and bicyclist safety in this
metropolitan area discourages pedestrian activity, a (SHPO). pedestrian-centric district.
3. Downtown Murray is already a vital characteristic of a downtown 3.Downtown’s proximity to Frontrunner 3.Surface parking lots constitute the
solidified mixed-use district, joined Re district. and Trax stations provide majority of the historic downtown
esidential on the fringes and 2E 4.Compounding with the minimal opportunities to better capture area, threatening the urban nature of
ried cor cial occupants is pedestrian infrastructure, the lack of transit riders. a traditional downtown district.
Cente bicycle-only infrastructure further 4. The City’s young, highly educated, 4.Current minimum vehicle parking
Guidelines (MCCDG) regulate the Fe diminishes the multimodal nature of a growing population demonstrates the requirements raise the development

district during the design rev 73 traditional downtown district. economic opportunity for new costs for new construction and
proc though these - oon entrepreneurs and businesses. discourage the redevelopment of
5.RDA-owned land provides a existing buildings where the minimum
significant opportunity for defining parking requirements cannot be met.
the downtown's character.
6.New medium-density development
generates significant tax revenue and
additional pedestrian traffic for area
businesses.

advisory, not compul

5.Zoning code § s a well-thought-

out code to Ir

d and tailored to achieve the
set forth in the design
25; however, there are

opportunities to improve



< a Te 5)
aN "

PUBLIC INPUT
SYNOPSIS



Public Input Synopsis ot respondent suppor

downtown revitalization.
Surveys

: : ; Accessibility and ease of
2023 Downtown Visioning Survey ning, bic . 96 and on-s yarking transportation to and within
ieee a the Downtown was ranked
at
Key trends identified in this survey include a daily influx
of visitors, a penchant for dining experiences, and a
reliance on personal vehicles for transportation.

Streetscape priorities underline the community's
desire for intimate, pedestrian-friendly spaces, with Pedestrian-friendly, public plazas and green space,
high-quality design, off-street parking, and 1-3 stories
were ranked as the five most important development

characteristics for Downtown Murray.

reported that there are
safety concerns or issues to

preferences for low-rise structures. Services and
amenities, both private and public, spotlight the be addressed in Downtown.
importance of casual dining, parks, and off-street

parking facilities.

Housing preferences reveal a nuanced demand for
diverse options, from small single-family homes to
townhomes. The neighborhood's vibrancy hinges on
elements like green spaces, events, and additional
retail establishments.

Street trees, event programming, retail
public and civic facilities, off-: or service establishments, dining
parking d gath p ; : establishments, and historic building
ranke the t ub rehabilitation were ranked as the five
amenities or services to é most important elements for an
Downt ) improved Downtown



03 / Public Input Synopsis

Public Open Houses

September 6th Draft

August 14th Visioning Open House Recommendations Workshop

Insights from the Visioning Open House on August 14th highlighted Insights from the Conceptual Open House on
residents’ desire to enhance downtown safety, improve cycling September 6, 2023, highlighted that residents desire
infrastructure, and activate pedestrian spaces. Additionally, there a vibrant, walkable downtown like Park City and

was a desire for green spaces, civic plazas, and diverse dining Holladay. Key themes include preferences for historic
options. Architectural preferences lean toward a blend of historic aesthetics, mixed-use opportunities, and the

and contemporary elements, while a strong emphasis on street preservation of existing facades. The community
trees and outdoor dining showcases a commitment to aesthetics envisions improved streetscapes with wide sidewalks,
and community engagement. enhanced pedestrian experiences, and walkability,

while also expressing concerns about road sizes and
advocating for separated bike lanes.

DESIGN IDEAS

There were varying opinions on shared roadways and
activated alleyways, with some preferring them and
others preferring the clear definition of space.
Preservation of historic buildings and a preference for

Holladay's design elements further contribute to the
feedback.



RECOMMENDATIONS



O4 / Recommendations

Conceptual Design Recommendations for
Downtown Murray

Design and development recommendations for Downtown Murray
are the culmination of months of public and stakeholder
engagement to determine the future of Murray City RDA owned
property, adjacent properties, and public right-of-way in the
downtown project area.

Over the next five pages, maps and renderings depict the
conceptual recommendations and highlight defining elements that
are products of this planning process and should be continued
through future developments in the project area.

Moreover, the remainder of the recommendations support this
recommendation in its execution for both the public and private
realm.



Seen ek endear areae TSS

This rendering depicts the proposed improvements to the intersection of the
alleyway and 5th Ave. Key improvements include a painted alleyway, bollards to
protect pedestrians, added trees, and a speed table.

This rendering is of a proposed building located at the intersection of 4800 S and
State St, with 4800 S in the foreground.

This is a side profile of the proposed building at the intersection of State Street and

This is a side profile of the proposed building at the intersection of State Street and
4800 S. The visible fagade is on the north side of the building, and the view is i 4800 S. The visible fagade is on the north and east sides of the building, and the

looking south. view is looking southwest.



3
=
=

~
-

This rendering depicts an aerial view of the proposed improvements in the project area between 4800 South to the north, Vine Street to the south, Hanauer Street to the west, and a
State Street to the east. This view is looking southwest, and the intersection of State Street and 4800 South is in the foreground. f


ine-St:

—

This rendering depicts two proposed buildings to replace the drive-thru bank on i This rendering is an aerial view of the recommendations’ largest building at the
the south end of the project area. The intersection of State St and Vine St is in the a intersection of 4800 S and State St, featuring step-backs and patios on the fourth
foreground, and the view is looking northwest. floor. Adding a stepback past the third floor is a key feature of the recommendation.

EH
a -

i

This aerial view is mid-block of 5th Avenue Between State Street and Hanauer This renderings depicts how the parking lot in the middle of the north block may look,
Street looking north. The recommended new construction wraps around the block surrounded by new construction and existing buildings. Light-colored pavements and
with an inner parking lot and a public park on the southwest of the site. : ample vegetation are recommended features to reduce the heat island effect.



TETEVUTE Tee eee

This rendering depicts the ideal development type, featuring primarily local brick This view is from the intersection of 4800 S and State St looking east along 4800 S.
with glass elements and the opportunity for other secondary materials. This view is It is worth noting the varied setbacks, materials, and storefront designs. Additionally,
from the intersection of 4800 S and State Street looking southwest. ample site amenities help to improve the pedestrian experience.

GLPAIDDIAEA NM eWa&RRAAAAAAANOO

This rendering depicts a proposed pedestrian alleyway that would be located mid- This rendering depicts a proposed pedestrian alleyway that would be located mid-
block of Vine Street between State St and Hanauer St. The view is looking north. block of State Street between 4800 S and 5th Ave. The view is looking west.


This Page Intentionally Left Blank



4 1.0 Place Types

232
Recommendation #1: 5 5 7 e235 = ge 2
Implement form-based code in the Murray City 22 38 a3
Center District (MCCD) zoning district. - aE a: 7 :
Public input revealed an affection for Downtown Murray’s smaller-

scale architecture but not necessarily any given historic building. s
Preferred architectural elements include those identified in the

conceptual design recommendations on pages 16-18. As the
Downtown grows, adapts, and evolves, it will require flexibility in the 2
types and styles of buildings provided. g F : F ; 4 i & & é £ § § i i ; E 3 :
g > &
To support this, it is recommended that a form-based code be i i 8 a 8 8 °
prepared and implemented for the existing MCCD zoning district.
Implementing a form-based code for the Downtown will result in a . 4
hybrid code for the City. Form-based code is an alternative to

| SRS A a a RR CU LA a A SE
conventional zoning that enables a more predictable built 3 nie

environment. Rather than primarily regulating land uses, form-

based code governs the following. ee F ‘ i i 3 1 i rege

i gaa
« Relationship between buildings and the public right-of-way sé 53 Bs 3
¢ Form and mass of buildings in relation to each other 5 :
« Scale and types of streets and blocks Fj

Creating a form-based code for the historic district will allow the
flexibility needed to support small businesses, promote walkability,

enable revitalization, and more. Additionally, this hybrid code will Timing: ‘Short-Term (0-2 yeas)
eliminate the need for duplicative design guidelines by

incorporating the ideal design outcomes into the code as Responsible Entities: Pc ee
compulsory for new development. As a result, revitalization may

become more common, and new development will be more
appropriate for the historic district. As an alternative to this, the
City may pursue this form-based code as an overlay district to

either address multiple zoning districts or to address a portion of
the MCCD district.

Necessary steps:



Recommendation #2: Recommendation #3:

Update and enforce the downtown
design guidelines

In 2022, the City adopted advisory downtown design A bod Downtown Murray has a significant amount of
guidelines that proscribe best practices for the oe " parking found both on-street and a vi
downtown area. Ensuring a certain degree of wae 32 ys both public and privat ings. However, the
continuity between the historic buildings and new downtown is faced with two challenges: there are
construction will help maintain the community's A a. Pa A specific clusters where parking can be in short

supply on particular days, and mismar nent of

architectural integrity, creating a timeless ; "iy
appearance. fa Be »\ q y | existing parking creates artificial supply

lie challenges. Conducting a parking warrant analysis
A A 4 it will inventory existing parking, parking duration

parking turnover fr ney. Such information

While these are a significant first step, there are

SETS
opportunities to strengthen the guidelines. These will help id specific b hat can benefit

opportunities are most evident in the materiality and from reasonable parking tions that will
setback/location sections of the guidelines. Public improve turnover and incre customer base
input gathered during the plan highlighted brick as the The MCCD Design Review Committee (DRC) has an important role in for adjacent businesses. It can also inform future
preferred siding option; however, there are varied the enforcement of this recommendation. Each development in the development decisions and the need for

siding options that will help maintain Murray’s MCCD zoning district should have a hearing before the DRC, additional parking. Public and private partners can
architectural integrity. This chapter should further resulting in a formal advisory recommendation to the zoning staff better meet existing demand and reduce future
explore siding options that balance affordability, which will then make a formal recommendation to the Council on development costs identifying pres
architectural integrity, and durability. approval of a development. and opportunities to leverage e

Moreover, the updated document should also outline

a strategy to implement these guidelines. The City ne bagi a: (7 verre)

can mandate that all redevelopment and : f Rigs
development comply through zoning regulations, or it "a Murray City, MCCD Design Review Committee
can implement a program to financially incentivize bs ein se aoe el : WEE

property owners to abide by the guidelines. There

may be an mixed approach, requiring the most

consequential best practices (e.g., building materials) Necessary

through zoning. Less consequential best practices steps:

tthe current document revise as needed nd
then adopt a new report.

may be enforced through grants, other financial
incentives, or density bonuses. Determining which



Recommendation #4: All of these elements are featured in the conceptual The project schedule should
renderings. These projects include the following: be completed in the short
term (O-2 years), with
Timing: projects being completed in
5.1, Install shielded or cut-off luminary streetlights an order that balances cost
throughout the study area, set apart by a maximum with a positive impact on the
distance of 100 feet. downtown experience.

5.2. Install benches at least every 100 feet within the

Multimodal access and mobility are F :
: : pig Heals & public ROW or along primary corridors

foundational in a Downtown district, helping to
promote active transportation. Pedestrian 5.3. Install trash receptacles at least every 200 feet

sstery js peredived end eows), detined by within the public ROW or at critical intersections.

feelings of physical safety from vehicles and
crime and by data on traffic fatalities and

5.4. Install bike racks with a minimum capacity of two (2) Responsie

njuries ; . ;
is bikes every 100 feet and more capacity as the Entities: Murray City, Murray RDA

density of origins and destinations increases.
The conceptual design elements centered 5.5. Where applicable, install protected bike lanes on
around these core elements (see page 19). To City-owned (non-DOT) roads within the Downtown
provide further detail of the benefits, outlined project area
below are infrastructure elements that will
provide additional safety: 5.6. Require a 15‘ setback from the curb for infill

development to allow for a wide sidewalk, street

trees, and site amenities
Street and alley lighting (e.g., lampposts, The City should identify desired
overhead string lights) Street furniture and site 5.7. Install crosswalks in all directions at intersections ee hae li
amenities (e.g,, benches, bike racks, trash and a minimum interval of 200’ feet. ioe Tai seciect

: ! eminar j
receptacles, wayfinding signage) Ample, Necessary Schadule based on avellsble
dedicated space for non-vehicle circulation 5.8. Install a speed table at the intersection of the steps: funding. Moreover, the City
: ‘ 1

(e.g., wide sidewalks, regular crosswalks, alleyway and 5th Avenue, as depicted in the should dedicate staff time to
protected bike lanes/paths) Street featur conceptual renderings. apply for grant funding, some of
designed to slow traffic (e.g., cobblestone which is identified in the
streets, narrow travel lanes, speed tables and 5.9. Improve the alley off of 5th Avenue as depicted in Appendix.

bumps) the conceptual renderings



Recommendation #5: Recommendation #6:

Partner with UDOT to improve Program public spaces within Downtown
multimodal accessibility on State Murray.
Street.

Much of the City’s programming occurs at Murray Park,
State Street is one of the City’s primary including Murray Fun Days and the farmers market. As the
thoroughfares, carrying approximately 41,000 downtown area grows, so must the regular programming of
vehicles daily. Balancing the mobility of vehicles with the public spaces in the following areas.
the mobility and accessibility concerns of non-
motorists is paramount to the future of State Street. « City Hall plaza

e Shared use alley off of 5th Ave between State and

The City should engage in conversations with the Poplar Streets
UDOT to identify and pursue opportunities to « Proposed plaza at the corner of Hanauer Street and
improve safety for non-motorists as they traverse 5th Ave
this corridor. « Proposed pedestrian promenade behind the infill

development

Toning Event programming should complement existing event
; programming throughout the City and destinations within
estan the downtown area. When programming events, creating a
ntities: ; 25 .
calendar or highly visible document that advertises them
is essential.
Necessary
steps: Timing:
Responsible
Entities:
Necessary

steps:



Recommendation #7: Recommendation #8:

Negotiate and enter into a Master If the downtown revitalization
Development Agreement (MDA) for the efforts are successful, expand the
RDA-owned property in Downtown scope of study to the east side of
Murray. State Street.

Once the development of the RDA-owned land is

The Murray City RDA should release an RFP for a : : : ,
development proposal consistent with the public’s vision Sompiete thie City shows meacaadl -_ ome °
for the downtown and highlight elements of the the downtown area and its role in revitalization
conceptual renderings. The RFP should call for a —_a working with downtown-area
development that matches the forming, massing, and insorailorraaaienipalaramieas:. alan. ipoegaiaaiiaaai
architectural materials of this report’s recommendations. use Tor or Properties _ aT ey

land acquisitions for public needs such as

p

circulation, safety, and recreation.
The development should be privately led; however, the

RDA should consider retaining land ownership and
entering the land into a land trust to preserve

affordability through a long-term land lease to the
developer.

Long-term (7-10 years)

Timing: Short-term (3-6 years) Murray City, Murray RDA,
Private property owners
Responsible
FE a : a - Murray City, Murray RDA
The City and RDA should
The RDA should formulate and engage property owners on
release a RFP to solicit development the west side of State Street in
pecessely i i i identifying opportunities for
Sages proposals that is consistent with the ' ig OPPO
ae conceptual recommendations of this improvement and growth.

report and with public sentiment.





O5/ Appendix

Pedestrian and Bicycle Funding Opportunities: U.S. Department of Transportation Highway, Transit, and Safety Funds
November 16, 2023
This table indicates likely eligibility for pedestrian and bicycle activities and projects under U.S. Department of Transportation surface a funding programs. Activities and projects need to meet sae eligibility requirements, See
notes and basic program requirements below, with links to program information Project spons a 2 and bicycling ans)

__padestrian a sd 8 Bicve le Saal ne Opportuni ies: Highway, Transit, and Safety Funds
notes and guidance. ~$ = Eligible, but not competitive unless

_———— ical ieee ian deat] OST Gea Tost
Activity or Project Typ Rene Rf See an ne vee RUS eee Sa ew aes TET ame EE

oe BEELER EEE EEE hat |_| -]
ighting

pe ee

Bicycle helmets (safetypromotion) dS

et ett ete er et a batted

Po ee este a is{ ff Fy

aa ee (SE (AE) ae ee Oe | Lt _}.2, SS Se Hf et 4 f$ —
cle repair station (air pump. simple tools, electric outlets’

I payed share (capital and equipment including charging stations and ak |

pf ts Ts |
ee Pte tt etre Ltr lalrrr
Sa ce la Pe LET aeere tee sreeeey fetta reatevee Bom
tuo andes not operations)

eee

ata sole a for pedesinans andor bicyclists Ls

el ency and evacuation routes for destrians anor bicyclists

aan eeaiecasicn (pedestrian’bicycle route; transit access),
neers amenities (benches, —_- shade. trees, water fountains),

(pedestrian and Se scale associated wath

destrian’ bicyclist project)

aps (for pedestnans anclVor bieyclists) (see de Po et OID =
we ng np haan oop pert EES Eerie tee eet
Paved shoulders for p destrian and/or bicyclist use petstst sts fs pe pepe pe Sa +4 —

20 2 eee ee ee

ett? Prt bet PP Pt PP PP ttt TI Pe


Pedestrian and Bicy ie Fu dina. 4 mectumities: “ Prine gtd Moe and seme Funds
: and g dance. ~$ = Eligibl :

pi RN Railateradecrossings ————“‘“CS*S*SC~*™r

Recreational trails ——(—is—s—“—s‘“—s—sS—~*@™Y

ilience improvements to pedestrian and bicycle facilities or to _—__s
p pe sohuers use. REVISED

enforcement (ne ding police patrols}

= T $ H+} ft
program tochracel assessment (for peds/bicyalias tsp beta te eS
Te oe Zz

Shared use paths / transportation trails

Signing for pedestrian or bicycleroutes——~—CSCSCidi

alee ty ! sof me elistateielet telsleel tepietsteisielal ieee Ln
pedestrian and bi yole use) REVISED
ee - DPR ODORS Bee eee
REVISED Note

echnical Assistance (see Cross-cutting notes) NEW | ~$ | en eee
raMiccalming CSCSC~* = ae ae

ee rman
peor eet aed matter cquuprnent __{ sf {sf —_f—_7__7_j_fs{ts{si ft tf
is[sfT~stsitsitsit sts ts |

2 gor awe exrfoscement ony ped /bi clist safety (laws

1s] | i
[sfst of sists ists ists sts ist Try
te ee te a ee 2

ADA/SO4: Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 / Section 504 of the Rehabilitahon Act of 1973 PLAS: Statewide Planning and Research (SPR) or Metropolitan Planning funds (FHWA andor FTA funding)
AoPp; Areas of Persistent Poverty Program PROTECT: Promoting Resilient Operations for Transformative, Efficient, and Cost Saving Transportation
ATP: Active Transportation Infrastructure Investment Program [web link under development] RAISE: Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity
BIL; Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 117-58) RON: Reconnecting Communities and Neighborhoods Grant Program (includes Reconnecting Communities Pilot Program (RCP)
BRI: Bridge Programs, including: BFP: Bridge Fornuila Program, BLP: Bridge Investment Program; BRR: Bridge Replacement and Neighborhood Access and Equity programs)
and Rehabilitation Program RLICP: Railway-Highway Crossings (Section 130) Program
CMAQ: Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality lmprovement Program RRIF: Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (loans)
CRP: Carbon Reduction Program RIP: Recreational Trails Program

FLIP: Federal Lands and Tribal Transportation Programs: Feder! Lands Access Prograr is Transportation SMART: Strengthening Mobility and Revolutionizing Transportation (SMART) Grants Program

Program, Tribal Transportation Program, Federal Lands Piasming Program and related ie 3 Federal and Tribal lands such | SRTS; Safe Routes to School Program (and related activities)

ote Ninian Searabiones Fein hence seek Loe Cimeedts rogers SS4A: Safe Streets and Roads for All



© TASA (23 U.S.C. 133(h)): Broad eligibility for pedestrian, bicycle, and micromobility projects. Activities marked “$SRTS” means eligible only as an SRTS project benefiting schools for kindergarten through 12" grade.

© RIP (23 U.S.C. 206): Projects for trails and trailside and trailhead facilities for any recreational trail use. RTP projects are eligible under TA Set-Aside and STBG

¢ SRTS (23 U.S.C. 208): Projects for any SRTS activity. FY 2012 was the last year for dedicated - funds, but funds are available until expended. SRTS projects are eligible under TA Set-Aside and STBG.

© PLAN (23 U.S.C. 134 and 135): Funds must be used for planning purposes, for example: Maps: System maps and GIS; Safety education and awareness: for transportation safety planning; Safety program technical assessment: for
transportation safety planning; Training: bicycle and pedestrian system planning training. Transportation planning associated with activities would be eligible, SPR and PL funds are not available for project implementation or construction,

* NSBP (23 U.S.C. 162): Discretionary program subject to annual appropriations. Projects must directly benefit and be located on or near an eligible designated scenic byway.

a Ww
ELIT 7 (23 U.S.C. 201-204): Projects must provide access to or within Federal or Tribal lands. Seana include: — Lands and Tribal ae Programs (Federal Lands Access Pro: Federal Lands Transportation Program,
federal Lands Planning Program) and related programs for Federal and Tribal lands such as the N Tr ‘ojects (NSFLTP) program.

© Federal Lands Transportation Program (23 U.S.C. 203): For Federal agencies for projects that — access me Federal lands.
o Federal Lands Access Program (FLAP) (23 U.S.C. 204): For State and local entities for projects that provide access to or within Federal or Tribal lands.
© TIP(23 U.S.C 202): For federally recognized Tribal governments for projects within Tribal boundaries and public roads that access Tribal lands
© TIPS (23 U.S.C 202(e1) and 23 U.S.C. 148(a)(4)): Grants available to federally recognized Indian Tribes through a competitive, discretionary program to plan and implement transportation safety projects.

OST Grant Programs
e JNERA (WJA § 11110): Funds projects that improve safety, generate economic benefits, reduce congestion, enhance resiliency, and hold the greatest promise to eliminate freight bottlenecks and improve critical freight movements.

© RAISE (ILA § 21202): Funds capital and planning grants to he!p communities build transportation projects that have significant local or regional impact and improve safety and equity

© RCN: Combines RCP (IIA § 11509 and div. J, title VIII, Highway Infrastructure Programs, para. (7)), which provides funds for planning grants and capital construction grants that relate to a transportation facility that creates a barrier to
community connectivity and Neighbor Access and Equity Grant Program, Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) § 60501; enacted as Pub. L. 117-169, 23 U.S.C. 177, which provides funds for projects that improve walkability, safety, and
affordable transportation access and funding for planning and capacity building activities in disadvantaged or underserved communities.

® SMART (JA § 25005): Provides grants to eligible public sector agencies to conduct demonstration projects focused on advanced smart community technologies and systems in order to improve transportation efficiency and safety.

© SS44 (JA § 24112): Discretionary program funds regional, local, and Tribal initiatives through grants to prevent roadway deaths and serious injuries. Projects must be identified in a comprehensive safety action plan (§ 24112(a)(3))

© hrve (Department of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2022 (Pub. L. 117-103, div L, title [) Technical assistance, planning, and capacity-building support in selected communities.

OST Loan Programs

© RRIF (Chapter 224 of title 49 U.S.C.): Program offers direct loans and loan guarantees for capita] projects related to rail facilities, stations, or crossings. Pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure components of “economic development”
projects located within '2-mile of qualifying rail stations may be eligible. May be combined with other grant sources.

© TIFIA (Chapter 6 of title 23 U.S.C.) Program offers secured loans, loan guarantees, or standby lines of credit for capital projects. Minimum total project size is $10 million, multiple surface transportation projects may be bundled to meet
cost threshold, under the condition that all projects have a common repayment pledge. May be combined with other grant sources, subject to total Federal assistance limitations.

uu A Programs

FLA (49 U.S.C. 5307): Multimodal 6 aoe funded with FTA Sasi — _ toe Pasig —_ See Bicycles and Transit, Flex Funding for Transit Access, the FTA imal Policy Statement on the Eligibility of Pedestrian and
Pucycle Improvements Under Federal Transit Law, and ortunsties.

© Bicycle infrastructure plans and projects must be within a Sale 5 of a waned ae or gn If more than 3 miles, within a distance that people could be expected to safely and conveniently bike to the particular stop or station.
© Pedestrian infrastructure plans and projects must be within a '4 mile radius of a transit stop or station, If more than ‘4 mile, within a distance that people could be expected to safely and conveniently walk to the particular stop or station.
© FTA funds cannot be used to purchase bicycles for bike share systems.

¢ FTA AoPP (Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Pub, L. 116-94); Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Pub. L. 116-260)); Promotes multimodal planning, engineering, and technical studies. or financial planning to improve
transit services, facilities, and access in areas experiencing long-term economic distress, not for capital purchases.

¢ ETA TOD: Provides planning grants to support community efforts to improve safe access to public transportation, services, and facilities, including for pedestrians and cyclists. The grants help organizations plan for transportation projects
that connect communities and improve access to transit and affordable housing, not for capita! purchases.

NET

e NHTSA 402 (23 U.S.C. 402): Project activity must be included in the State’s Highway Safety Plan. Contact the State Highwav Safety Office for details

e NHTSA 405 (23 U S.C. 405). Funds are subject to eligibility, application, and award. Project activity must be included in the State’s Highway Safety Plan. Contact the State Highwav Safety Office for details. The Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law expanded the eligible use of funds for a Section 405 Nonmotonzed Safety grant beginning in FY 2024. See 23 (S.C. 1300.36. For prior year grant awards, FAST Act eligible uses remain in place.

¢ Project agreements involving safety education, or any other positions must specify hours of eligible activity required to perform the project. Project agreements may not be expressed in terms of full or part time positions


HSIP: Highway Safety Improvement Program LASA: Transportation Alternatives Set-Aside (formerly Transportation Altematives Program, Transportation Enhancements)
UJ: Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Pub. L. 117-58), also known as the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Thaye: Thnving Communities Initiative (TA: Technical Assistance)

CNERA: Infrastructure for Rebuilding America Discretionary Grant Program TIELA: Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (loans)

NAE: Neighborhood Access and Equity Program TOD: Transit-Oriented Development

NHPP: National Highway Performance Program ITP: Tribal Transportation Program

NHTSA 402: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration State and Community Highway Safety Grant Program TLPSE: Tribal Transportation Program Safety Fund
NHTSA 405(g)° National Highway Traffic Safety Administration National Prionty Safety Programs (Nonmotorized safety)

NSBP: National Scenic Byway :

Cross-cutting notes

This table indicates likely chgibility for pedestrian, bicycle, and micromobility activities and projects under U.S. Department of Transportation surface transportation funding programs. Activities and projects must meet program cligibility

requirements. See notes and links to program information below. Although the primary focus of this table is stand-alone activities and projects, programs can also fund pedestrian and bicycle facilities as part of larger projects. Project sponsors

are encouraged to consider Complete Streets and Networks that routinely integrate the safety, accessibility, equity, and convenience of walking and bicycling into surface transportation projects. The Federal-aid eligibility of the pedestrian and

bicycle elements are considered under the eligibility criteria applicable to the larger highway project. Pedestrian and bicycle activities also may be characterized as environmental mitigation for larger highway projects, especially in response to

impacts to a Section 4(f) property or oe zone safety, mobility, and accessibility impacts on bicyclists and pedestrians

© See FHWA’s Policy on Using Infrastructure Law ces to Build a Better America.

e See FHWAB and Pe 1 7 o and Project Deve! ent (Guidance), Publications, Pedestrian and Bicyclist Safety, and Bicycle transportation and pedestrian walkways statute at 23 U.S.C. 217.

© Bicycle Project Purpose: 23 U.S.C. 217(i) requires that bicycle facilities “be principally for transportation, rather than recreation, purposes”, However, 23 U.S.C. 133(b)(7) and 133(h) authorize recreational trails under STG and TASA.
therefore, 23 U.S.C. 217(i) does not apply to trail projects (including for bicycle use) using STBG or TASA funds. Section 217(i) applies to bicycle facilities other than trail-related projects, and section 217(i) applies to bicycle facilities
using other programs (NHPP, HSIP, CMAQ). The transportation requirement under section 217(i) only applies to bicycle projects, not to any other trail use or transportation mode.

« Signs, signals, signal improvements includes ensuring accessibility for persons with disabilities. See Accessible Pedestrian Signals, See also Proven Safety Countermeasures, such as Crosswalk Visibility Enhancements, Leading Pedestrian
Interval signals, Lighting, Pedestrian Hybrid Beacons, and Rectangular Rapid Flashing Beacons

e Technical Assistance includes assisting local agencies and other potential grantees to identify pedestiea and bicycle safety and re issues, and to help them develop and implement successful projects. Technical assistance may be
authorized under a program or sometimes as a limited portion of a program. See FHWA links to

© The DOT Navigator is a resource to help communities understand the best ways to apply for grants, and to plan he and deliver caelnadins infrastructure projects and services.

© Aspects of DOT initiatives may be eligible as dividual projects. Activities above may benefit safe, comfortable, multimodal networks, environmental justice; and equity

¢ Occasional DOT or agency incentive grants may be available for specific research or technical assistance purposes.

© Operation costs: In general, ongoing and routine operation costs (such as ongoing costs for bike sharing or scooter sharing) are not eligible unless specified within program legislation. See links to program guidance for more information.

Program-specific notes
DOT funding programs have specific requirements that activities and projects must meet. Eligibility must be determined on a case-by-case basis. See links to program guidance for more information

© ATIIP (IISA § 11529): Subject to appropriations. Projects costing at least $15,000,000 to develop or complete active transportation networks and spines, or at least $100,000 to plan or design for active transportation networks and spines

. mn BE. (JA, Div. J, title VIH, para. (1)), BIP (23 U.S.C. 124), BRR (Department of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2022): For specific highway bridge projects and highway bridge projects that will replace or rehabilitate a bridge;
project must consider pedestrian and bicycle access as part of the project and costs related to their inclusion are eligible under these programs.

¢ CRP (23 U.S.C. 175): Projects should support the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from on-road highway sources.

¢ CMAQ (23 U.S.C. 149): Projects must demonstrate emissions reduction and benefit air quality. See the CMAQ guidance for a list of projects that may be eligible for CMAQ funds. CMAQ funds may be used for shared use paths, but not
for trails that are primarily for recreational use,

e HIP (23 U.S.C, 148); Projects must be consistent with a State’s Strategic Highway Safety Plan and (1) correct or improve a hazardous road location or feature, or (2) address a highway safety problem. Certain noninfrastructure safety
projects can also be funded using HSIP funds as specified safety projects

¢ RCP (23 U.S.C, 130): Projects at all public railroad crossings including roadways, bike trails, and pedestrian paths.

e NHPP (23 U.S.C. 119): Projects must benefit National Highway System (NHS) cormdors and must be located on land adjacent to any highway on the National Highway System (23 U.S.C. 217(b)).

¢ PROTECT (23 U.S.C. 176): Funds can only be used for activities that are primarily for the purpose of resilience or inherently resilience related. With certain exceptions, the focus must be on supporting the incremental cost of making
assets more resilient.

e SURG (23 U.S.C. 133): Broad eligibility for pedestrian, bicycle, and micromobility projects under 23 U.S.C, 206, 208, and 217 (23 U.S.C. 133(b)(7)). Activities marked “SSRTS” means eligible only as an SRTS project benefiting schools
for kindergarten through 12 grade. Nonconstruction projects related to safe access for bicyclists and pedestrians (such as bicycle and pedestrian education) are eligible under STBG (23 U S.C. 217(a)).

