ORDINANCE NO. 24-25

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 17.64.020 AND 17.64.090 OF
THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO RESIDENTIAL
FENCING REGULATIONS AND SETBACKS AND FENCING BETWEEN
RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Sections
17.64.020 and 17.64.090 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to residential
fencing regulations and setbacks and fencing between residential and non-residential
zoning districts.

Section 2. Amend Sections 17.64.020 and 17.64.090 of the Murray City
Municipal Code. Sections 17.64.020 and 17.64.090 of the Murray City Municipal Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

17.64.020: RESIDENTIAL FENCING REGULATIONS:

A. Front Yard Setback Area: Fences, walls, hedges, or other screening materials are
allowed in the front yard area subject to the following standards:

1. Amaximum of four feet (4’) in height when utilizing nonsolid fencing which is
seventy-five percent (75%) open and presents no visual barriers to adjoining
properties and streets.

2. Amaximum of three feet (3') in height when utilizing solid or opaque type
fencing, walls, hedges, or screens.

B. Interior Side Yard Area: In a side yard area, fencing may be constructed to a
maximum height of six feet (6') with standard type fencing material up to the minimum
required front setback line within the zoning district that the property is located, or the
front of the dwelling, whichever is less.

C. Corner Side Yard Area fences, walls, hedges, or other screening materials are
allowed up six feet (6') in height except in the following situations:

1. When located within ten feet (10’) to a driveway on an abutting property,
fencing may not be located within a triangular area formed by the property lines
and a line connecting them at points ten feet (10’) behind the sidewalk.

a. If sidewalk is not present, the setback shall be measured from the
property line. If the property line extends into the established right-of-way,
the setback shall be measured from the right-of-way line.

2. Fencing may be allowed in the ten foot (10’) triangular area subject to the
following:


a. Three feet (3°) in height for solid or opaque material; or

b. Four feet (4’) in height for nonsolid material that is seventy-five percent
(75%) open and presents no visual barriers.

D. Rear Yard Area: Fencing may be constructed to a maximum height of six feet (6’)
with standard type fencing material except in the following situations:

1. When located within ten feet (10’) to a driveway on an abutting property,
fencing may not be located within a triangular area formed by the property lines
and a line connecting them at points ten feet (10’) behind the sidewalk.

a. If sidewalk is not present, the setback shall be measured from the
property line. If the property line extends into the established right-of-way,
the setback shall be measured from the right-of-way line.

2. Fencing may be allowed in the ten foot (10’) triangular area subject to the
following:

a. Three feet (3’) in height for solid or opaque material; pr

b. Four feet (4’) in height for nonsolid material that is seventy-five percent
(75%) open and presents no visual barriers.

[NOTE — Current Drawings of Example 1 and Example 2 as shown in Section 17.64.020
shall be replaced with. the new Drawings attached hereto as Exhibit A]

17.64.090: FENCE HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS:

A. When not located on a property line, fence type uses such as tennis court
enclosures, sport court, and swimming pool enclosures, ball diamond backstops, etc.,
may be erected to a height greater than six feet (6'), but shall not exceed a height of
eighteen feet (18).

B. Properties abutting the interstate freeway system may erect a fence to a height
not exceeding ten feet (10') on the property line adjacent to the freeway right-of-way.

C. Residential zoned properties adjacent to the UTA light rail commuter rail tracks
may erect a fence to a height not exceeding ten feet (10') on the property line adjoining
the UTA light rail right-of-way subject to all fencing permit requirements and traffic
visibility setback requirements.

D. Residentially zoned properties that abut non-residentially zoned properties may
construct a fence to a maximum height of eight feet (8') and must meet any setback
requirements.

E. Residential and nonresidential properties abutting a collector or arterial street on a
side or rear property line may erect a fence to a height not exceeding eight feet (8') on
the side or rear property line adjacent to the collector or arterial street right-of-way.



F. Properties exceeding one-half ('/2) acre in size may erect a fence to a height not
exceeding eight feet (8').

G. Residential and nonresidential properties located between Fontaine Bleu Drive
and Wheeler Historic Farm that are adjacent to the Jordan and Salt Lake City Canal
right-of-way may erect a fence on the property line adjacent to the right-of-way to a
height not exceeding eight feet (8') subject to all building permit requirements and any
traffic visibility setback requirements.

H. Fences over seven feet (7') in height shall be subject to all building permit
requirements. (Ord. 17-28)

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on this

12 day of November, 202dany,

ili MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
ATTEST: WQORATE Le

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this \3 day of
VW, 2024.

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

DATED this [ 3 day of Xfpvlevabe m™ _, 2024.

rett A. Hales, Mayor


ATTEST:

ez Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance was published according to law on the {2
day of Nisvou 4.

s ae A cK ~
Brooke Smith, City Recorder

