ORDINANCE NO. 25-37

AN ORDINANCE ENACTING SECTION 12.28.070 OF THE MURRAY
CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO COLLECTION FEES FOR
OUTSTANDING BALANCES OWED TO THE CITY AND AMENDING
SECTIONS 7.04.030, 12.30.010, 13.04.040 AND 13.48.050 OF THE
MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO THE SAME.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to enact Section 12.28.070
allowing collection fees for outstanding balances owed to the City, and to amend
Sections 7.04.030, 12.30.010, 13.04.040 and 13.48.050 of the Murray City Municipal
Code relating to the same.

Section 2. Enactment of Section 12.28.070 of the Murray City Municipal Code.
Section 12.28.070 shall be enacted to read as follows:

12.28.070: GOLF COURSE COLLECTION FEES:

A. In the event credit cards, electronic funds transfer (EFT), or other payments
cannot be properly processed, the customer shall be responsible for making valid
payment to the City for all use of City services and venues. Starting twenty-five (25)
days after request from the City to pay any unpaid balances, a late fee will be charged
against the unpaid balance at an interest rate of 18% per annum (1.5% per month) until
paid in full.

B. If the City uses a collection agency to collect any unpaid balance owed to the
City, the customer shall pay a collection fee equal to the lesser of the City’s actual cost
for use of the collection agency in collecting the unpaid balance or forty percent (40%)
of the customer’s unpaid balance. In the event a lawsuit is brought to collect the unpaid
balance, the customer shall pay all other costs of collection, court costs and reasonable
attorney fees, in addition to the collection fee.

Section 3. Amendment of Sections 7.04.030, 12.30.010, 13.04.040 and

13.48.050 of the Murray City Municipal Code: Sections 7.04.030, 12.30.010, 13.04.040
and 13.48.050 shall be amended to read as follows:

7.04.030: CHARGES FOR SERVICES TO RESIDENCES:

A. Amonthly charge for general solid waste management services provided to
residences other than residences in the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District
shall be in accordance with the following rate schedule. The monthly rates shall go into
effect on July 1, 2019, and July 1 each year thereafter. Every residence shall at


minimum pay the monthly base fee except where power, water, sewer and waste
management services to the residence are properly terminated.

July 1, 2019 To July 1, 2020 and continuing
June 30, 2020 thereafter until amended
Base fee (garbage) $9.75 $10.50
Base fee (recycling) $9.75 $10.50

Additional refuse or $9.25 $9.75
recycling container fee

B. If aresidence wants more than two (2) automated refuse containers or one
automated recycling container, the residence must submit a written request to the City's
Public Works Director, or designee, stating with specificity the reasons supporting the
need. The determination to provide additional automated refuse containers or additional
recycling containers to a residence shall be made at the sole discretion of the City's
Public Works Director, or designee.

C. The fee for each reservation of the green waste trailer shall be forty dollars
($40.00).

D. The fee for reservation of each neighborhood roll-off box shall be as determined by
the City's Public Works Director provided, however, that in no event shall the fee exceed
the City's actual costs to: 1) deliver and pick up the neighborhood roll-off box; and 2)
dispose of the contents. (Ord. 19-15: Ord. 18-06: Ord. 16-01)

E. Starting twenty-five (25) days after a balance is due, a late fee will be charged
against the unpaid balance at an interest rate of 18% per annum (1.5% per month) until
paid in full.

F.  f the City uses a collection agency to collect any unpaid balance, the residence
shall pay a collection fee equal to the lesser of the City’s actual cost for use of the
collection agency in collecting the unpaid balance or forty percent (40%) of the
residence’s unpaid balance. In the event a lawsuit is brought to collect the unpaid
balance, the residence shall pay all other costs of collection, court costs and reasonable
attorney fees, in addition to the collection fee.



12.30.010: FEES:

K. Fees for miscellaneous services, including facility rental, locker rental, merchandise
sales, classes and programs and special events, shall be established by the Parks and
Recreation Director pursuant to a written schedule, provided, however, that such fees
shall not be more than necessary to recoup the City's cost for the services charged.

L. Inthe event credit cards, electronic funds transfer (EFT) or other payment cannot
be properly processed, the owing individual shall be responsible for making valid
payment to the City for all use of City services and venues. Starting twenty-five (25)
days after request from the City to pay any unpaid balances, all unpaid balances will be
charged an interest rate of 18% per annum (1.5% per month) until paid in full.

M. If the City uses a collection agency to collect any unpaid balance owed to the City,
the owing individual shall pay a collection fee equal to the lesser of the City’s actual cost
for use of the collection agency in collecting the unpaid balance or forty percent (40%)
of the owing individual's unpaid balance. In the event a lawsuit is brought to collect the
unpaid balance, the owing individual shall pay all other costs of collection, court costs
and reasonable attorney fees, in addition to the collection fee.

N. From time to time, the City is authorized to offer discounts and promotions as long
as the discounts and promotions are first approved in writing by the Parks and
Recreation Director, the Mayor and the Director of Finance and Administration;
provided, however, that no such discounts or promotions shail be in violation of section
10-8-2 of the Utah Code, and that, at a minimum, all such discounts or promotions shall
cover the costs of running the discounts or promotions. (Ord. 19-05: Ord. 18-06: Ord.
17-05)

13.04.040: ACCOUNT BILLING:

D. Late Payment Charge:

1. After twenty five (25) days from the billing statement date, a late payment
charge of 1.5 percent shall be assessed against any unpaid delinquent balance. A
customer may be granted a waiver of the late payment charge if:

a. The customer makes a written request with the Director of Finance and
Administration or designee within thirty (30) days from assessment of the late payment
charge;


b. The customer has incurred no late payment charges on their account in the
twelve (12) consecutive months prior to the assessment of the late payment charge the
customer wants waived;

c. The Director of Finance and Administration or designee has determined that
good cause exists to waive the late payment charge.

2. No other charge, whether described as a finance charge, service charge,
discount, or net/gross charge, may be applied to any account for failure to pay an
outstanding bill by the statement due date. This section does not apply to reconnection
charges, return check service charges, collection costs and fees, costs of court or
attorney fees.

F. Collection Fee: If a payment is made after a collector or other City employee has
been dispatched to disconnect the service of a customer, a collection fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00) shall be added to customer's account. If the City uses a collection
agency to collect any unpaid balance, the customer shall pay a collection fee equal to
the lesser of the City’s actual cost for use of the collection.agency in collecting the
unpaid balance or forty percent (40%) of the customer’s unpaid balance. In the event a
lawsuit is brought to collect the unpaid balance, the customer shall pay all other costs of
collection, court costs and reasonable attorney fees, in addition to the collection fee.

13.48.050: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:

F. Starting twenty-five (25) days after request from the City to pay any unpaid
balances, all unpaid balances will be charged at an interest rate of 18% per annum
(1.5% per month) until paid in full.

G. If the City uses a collection agency to collect any unpaid balance owed to the
City, the customer shall pay a collection fee equal to the lesser of the City’s actual cost
for use of the collection agency in collecting the unpaid balance or forty percent (40%)
of the customer's unpaid balance. In the event a lawsuit is brought to collect the unpaid
balance, the customer shall pay all other costs of collection, court costs.and reasonable
attorney fees, in addition to the collection fee.

H_ Policies: The Public Works Director may adopt policies to assist applying,
administering, and interpreting this chapter or other provisions related to the stormwater

utility.

| Appeals: Any person or entity that believes that this chapter, or any stormwater utility
fee or impervious surface measurement, was interpreted or applied erroneously may
appeal to the Public Works Director ("Director"). The appeal shall be in writing, shall

4


state any facts supporting the appeal, and shall be made within ten (10) days of the
decision, action, or bill being appealed. The Director may elect to hold a hearing on the
appeal. The Director shall decide the appeal within ten (10) days of when the appeal is
filed. Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Director may appeal to the
Mayor within ten (10) days of receiving the decision from the Director. The appeal to the
Mayor shall follow the same procedure as the appeal to the Director. The Mayor's
decision shall be final and binding on all parties.

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 9'" day of December 2025.

a Nt

ao \
Fi cM oT MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

io. ".
Ze: i= ay (\
42: ma)
'a? ay
‘ a fae Pam Cotter, Council Chair
or i903 “fF

ATTEST: = “WOe eR
fl WCoRATE
Waarss™

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this | _ of
2025.

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this | t day of evdnto I 2025.
aE

Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

i Brooke wl City Recorder

5


CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby, certify that,this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according

to law on the ||__ day of Decemleetes.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

