ORDINANCE NO. 25-20

AN ORDINANCE REPEALING CHAPTER 17.170 (MURRAY CITY CENTER
DISTRICT MCCD) OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, ADOPTING
AND ENACTING CHAPTER 17.171 (MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED
CODE CC-FBC) TO ESTABLISH THE MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED
CODE, AND MAKING OTHER NECESSARY LANGUAGE CHANGES TO THE
CITY CODE TO REFLECT THE CHANGE FROM THE MCCD TO THE CC-FBC.

PREAMBLE

In May 2024, the Murray City Municipal Council adopted the Murray City Center
District Strategic Plan. This Strategic Plan built upon the City’s existing planning
documents including the City’s 2017 General Plan and the Murray City Center District
Guidelines adopted in 2022. These documents contain goals and initiatives for the City
Center area including the recommendation of establishing and implementing a form
based code. The form based code is intended to support those goals and help achieve
the City’s vision for the long-term development of the City Center Area.

The development of the City Center Form Based Code (“CC-FBC”) was
overseen by a steering committee that was made up of outside consultants, City
Planning Staff, and City Council and Planning Commission members. As part of the
development process, the steering committee met regularly and held a public open
house, and the outside consultant made frequent presentations to both the Planning
Commission and the City Council to receive comments and further refine the direction of
the CC-FBC throughout the drafting process.

The proposed CC-FBC Zone would replace the City’s existing Murray City Center
District (MCCD) Zone, and the boundaries of the CC-FBC would then be expanded to
cover existing properties within the MCCD and three additional properties currently
located within the C-D (Commercial Development) Zone.

These proposed changes will further the objectives of the 2017 General Plan to
provide a variety of housing types and to revitalize critical areas of the City, and will help
stimulate reinvestment in deteriorating areas of the City to support growth, enhance the
image of the community, and support quality mixed-use development in the City Center.

NOW, THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

Section 1. | Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to repeal Chapter
17.170 (Murray City Center District MCCD) of the Murray City Municipal Code and
adopt and enact Chapter 17.171 (City Center Form Based Code) of the Murray City
Municipal Code establishing the Murray City Center Form Based Code, and to make
other necessary language changes to the City Code to reflect the change from the
MCCD to the CC-FBC.


Section 2. Repeal. Chapter 17.170 (Murray City Center District MCCD) of the
Murray City Municipal Code is hereby repealed.
section 3. Adoption and Enactment. Chapter 17.171 (City Center Form
Based Code) of the Murray City Municipal Code establishing the City Center Form
Based Code as set out in Attachment A (incorporated fully herein by this reference) is
hereby adopted and enacted.

Section 4. | Necessary Language Changes. As a result of repealing Chapter
17.170 and enacting Chapter 17.171, all references to the MCCD throughout the Murray
City Municipal Code shall be amended to reflect the new CC-FBC district as follows:

2.41.070: HISTORIC SITES INVENTORY AND REGISTER:

C. Historic Sites Register:

1. Established: The Murray City History Advisory Board shall compile a Historic
Sites Register of significant buildings, objects, structures, sites, or districts. The purpose
of the register is to educate the community about the City's past and its historic
resources, encourage preservation of historic structures and sites, and recognize
owners of historic properties for their contributions to protecting and preserving the
community's heritage.

D. Alterations And Demolitions:

1. Applicants requesting land use approval, building permit, or a demolition permit
for buildings or sites which qualify for the inventory or are listed on the Historic Sites
Register must complete a form provided by the board which describes the proposed
action including demolition or alterations of the following historical features of
designated historic sites: exterior finish materials, window dimension and placement,
rooflines, and additions or removals which change the existing building footprint.

F. Relationship Of the City Center Form Based Code (CC-FBC) To Historic
Sites Register: Buildings within the CC-FBC may be recorded on the register
individually or as a district; but shall follow all policies as outlined in title 17, chapter
17.170 of this Code regarding alterations and demolition.



17.04.130: FEES:

Fees may be charged applicants for subdivision, rezoning, building, occupancy, and
conditional use permits, design review and planned unit development approval, City
Form Based Code District review, certificate of appropriateness review, and Smelter
Site Overlay District permit review, Planning and Zoning Commission and Appeal
Authority hearings, and such other services performed by the City pursuant to this title.
Such fees shall be established by the Mayor in a written schedule and shall be in
amounts reasonably necessary to defray costs of processing the applications. The
written schedule of the fees shall be available for public inspection in the Public Works
Department and City Recorder's Office. (Ord. 18-06)

17.16.040: SCOPE AND STANDARD OF REVIEW:

D. 1. Except as provided in subsection D2, the hearing officer shall determine
whether the record on appeal includes substantial evidence for each essential finding of
fact.

2. For appeals under the CC-FBC review approval process , the hearing officer
shall uphold the decision so long as the decision was not arbitrary or capricious.
17.43.010: DEFINITIONS:

A. "Primarily Residential" for the purposes of this chapter and any applicable state
law means the following zoning districts:

Mixed Use Development District M-U

Transit Oriented Development District TOD

City Center Form Based Code District CC-FBC
17.48.180: TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT, CITY CENTER FORM BASED
CODE DISTRICT AND MIXED-USE ZONE SIGNS:

In the Transit Oriented Development, City Center Form Based Code District and Mixed-
Use Zones, on premises signs are permitted as follows:


B. Detached Signs:

1. Pole Signs:

a. Shall only be allowed for developments which provide a plaza, outdoor
dining area, or other similar area and shall be located adjacent to said area.

b. Shall have a minimum clearance of eight feet (8') and shall not exceed
a maximum height of fifteen feet (15').

c. The maximum sign area shall be limited to twenty four (24) square
feet.

d. If externally illuminated, the shielded light sources must be directed
solely onto the sign without causing glare.

2. Street Light/Banner Signs:
a. Banners may be attached to banner arms on light standards between

sixteen feet (16') and twenty three feet (23') in height within the CC-FBC Zone
(see figure 21 of this subsection B2a).

17.62.040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:

C. Aresidential condominium project shall have a minimum lot area of one acre. The
condominium project is also subject to the land use regulations of the specific zone in
which the condominium project is located. (The CC-FBC, MU, and TOD mixed use
zones have specific regulations for development and are excluded from this minimum
residential lot area requirement.)

M. Each multi-family residential project shall meet the following standards for open
space and recreational areas:

All residential condominiums require a minimum area of one acre and adequate usable
area open space shall be provided which shall not be less than ten percent (10%) of the
site area. The required open space shall be a usable common area not occupied by
dwellings and accessory structures, parking areas, streets, alleys, wetlands and similar
uses. Common area open space shall include recreation uses such as playground,
sports court, gazebo, landscaped park, and/or similar facilities as approved by the
planning commission. (The CC-FBC, MU and TOD are mixed use zones which have
other development regulations and are exempt from this area requirement.)



17.68.040: REQUIREMENTS:

i A. Perimeter:

1. Front Setback Areas:

c. Inno case shall the front landscaped area be less than ten feet (10")
behind the back side of sidewalk or street right of way line, except in the TOD, M-
U and CC-FBC districts,

17.72.100: ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:

C. Other Than Residential Lots: For other than residential lots, access shall be
provided to meet the following requirements:

4. Landscaping Required: Landscaping shall be provided along the entire
frontage of the property to a minimum depth of ten feet (10'), except for permitted
driveways. Sprinkling systems shall be installed and permanently maintained within the
landscaped area. The landscaped area shall be surrounded by an eight inch (8") high
poured concrete curb. Landscaping setbacks in the TOD, M-U, and CC-FBC districts

i shall comply with the TOD, M-U, and CC-FBC regulations respectively.

17.80.120: WHERE ALLOWED:

D. Aconditional use permit for the relocation of an existing, legal nonconforming
monopole in the CC-FBC Zone District to another location within the CC-FBC Zone
District may be granted only if the Planning Commission finds:

1. The monopole otherwise meets the requirements of subsection 17.80.040B3
of this chapter and does not exceed one hundred feet (100’) in height;

2. The monopole will be placed on a parcel which is occupied by a civic or
nonresidential use, such a school, fire station, church, or other use which is legally
located in the CC-FBC Zone District;

17.82.050: ALLOWED FACILITIES:

i E. Zoning Districts:


districts which emphasize the design of public improvements. As a condition for
approval in these zones a provider shall consider the aesthetics of the existing street
lights and other city infrastructure near proposed SWF locations and shall adhere to
reasonable design or concealment measures to include the following where technically
and economically feasible consistent with Title 54 Chapter 21 of the Utah Code:

2. The CC-FBC, TOD and M-U zoning districts of the City are mixed-use i

TABLE 1
SUMMARY OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES AS ALLOWED

BY ZONING DISTRICT AND MOUNTING TYPES

Zoning | SWF SWF SWF SWF SWF SWF SWF Attached | SWF Attached
District | Attached to | Attached Attached To | AttachedTo | Attached Ground To Utility Line to Traffic

Existing To New Existing New Utility | To Light Equipment | (Micro- Signals And
Monopole Monopole Utility Pole Pole Pole : Wireless Street Signs
Facility)

‘roo fp fe hh
fccrec_[P [pp hfe i
a LC Oc OO

17.84.010: ZONES ESTABLISHED:
For the purposes of this title, the territory of the City to which this title applies is divided
into the following Zoning districts:

Transit Oriented Development District TOD

City Center Form Based Code District CC-FBC

Business Park District B-P

17.168.090: PARKING REGULATIONS:

C. Parking structures and decks should provide the majority of parking in the TOD
Zone.



Section 5. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on

this 17" day of June, 2025.

eA, MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

ATTEST: iss wee

NAAAneee™

‘ss =: a Pam Cotter, Chair

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

[ Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on tris 20, of

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this 22 day of XZ ito, 2025.

Brett A. ales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder


CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published

according to law on the Day of OWN, 2025.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder



ATTACHMENT A

MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE


CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER
FORM BASED CODE FBC



TABLE OF CONTENTS

17.171.010 PLACE TYPE 4 3. GENERAL STREET LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS. 24
1. INTRODUCTION. 4 4. STREET TYPES. 26
2. PLANNING FRAMEWORK 5 5. POTENTIAL FUTURE CONNECTIONS 31
3. ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY. 5 17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES. 32
4. CITY CENTER PLACE TYPE. 5 1. INTRODUCTION 32
17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS 7 2. FRONTAGES. 32
1. INTRODUCTION. 7 3. LOT TYPES. 34
2. CIVIC CENTER FORM DISTRICT (CC). 8 4. BUILDING TYPES. 35
3. BOULEVARD FORM DISTRICT (BD). 9 5. BUILDING TYPE GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 35
4. NEIGHBORHOOD CORRIDOR FORM DISTRICT (NC) —s.11 6. GENERAL BUILDING 39
5. TRANSIT NEIGHBORHOOD FORM DISTRICT (TN). 12 7. LIMITED BAY BUILDING 44
6. RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION FORM DISTRICT (RT), 13 8. ROW BUILDING 48

9. YARD BUILDING. 53
17.171.030 USE 14

10. CIVIC BUILDING. 56
1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 14

11. ENTRANCE TYPES. 61
2. SPECIFIC USE RESTRICTIONS, 17

12. ROOF TYPES 63
17.171.040 STREET TYPES. 20 13. LIGHTING STANDARDS. 65
1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 20 14. ADDITIONAL DESIGN STANDARDS. 66
2. GENERAL STREET TYPE STANDARDS . 20

=> Worksheet & Glossary 2 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.060 OPEN SPACE 68 5. WINDOW SIGNS 96

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 68 6. WAYFINDING SIGNS. 97
2. POCKET PARK, 72 7. MONUMENT SIGNS. 98
3. TOWN SQUARE, 23 8. DIRECTORY SIGNS. 99
4. BTZ PEDESTRIAN SPACE, 74 9. MARQUEE SIGNS. 100
__ a 17.171.100 ADMINISTRATION 101
17.171.070 LANDSCAPING 77 1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 101
1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 77 2. SCOPE OF REGULATIONS. 101
2. LANDSCAPING INSTALLATION, 78 3. NON-CONFORMANCE. 102
3. STREET TREES 81 4. REVIEW AND APPROVALS. 103
4. LANDSCAPE AREAS. 82 17.171.110 GLOSSARY 105
17.171.080 PARKING 85 1. GRAPHICS. 105
1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 85 2. WORD DEFINITIONS & USES. 105
2. PARKING REQUIREMENTS. 85 3. DEFINED TERMS. 105
17.171.090 SIGNAGE 90 FORM BASED CODE WORKSHEET 1
1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. 90

2. WALL SIGNS. 93

3. AWNING SIGNS. 94

ed by VODA Landscape + Planning
aplan.com

4. HANGING/PROJECTING SIGNS. 95

= Worksheet | 3} Glossary 3 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.010 PLACE TYPE

17.171.010 PLACE TYPE

1. INTRODUCTION

Murray City is centrally located in the Salt Lake
valley. It is well-connected to public transit with
three light rail (TRAX) stations and one commuter
tail (FrontRunner) station. Interstate 15, Interstate
215, and State Street all connect through the city,
giving residents convenient access to the region's
transportation and street networks.

Notable features within the city include the Jordan
River, Big and Little Cottonwood Creeks, Wheeler
Historic Farm, and Murray Park. The Intermountain
Medical Center (IMC) campus is the largest employer
in the city and provides medical services to residents
from all over Utah and the surrounding states. State
Street is the city's largest commercial corridor and
includes the Fashion Place Mall, IMC, The Orthopedic
Specialty Hospital, and many other regionally
significant businesses

Murray's City Center is located near the geographic
center of the city, and is well connected to State
Street and the UTA transit network. With IMC directly
to the south of the City Center, and a significant
amount of redevelopable land, the City Center has
great potential for change over the next few decades.

Figure 1.1 - Murray City Center form based code area

Table of = )
bs snl = Worksheet Glossary 4 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.010 PLACE TYPE

2. PLANNING FRAMEWORK in the long term. These buildings and places remain

a stable part of the neighborhood as uses and

Murray's existing planning documents contain many :
users change over time. This continuity enhances

goals and initiatives for the City Center area. This
neighborhood identity, a sense of place, landmark
form based code is intended to support the goals
and achieve the vision for the City Center that the

community has developed in these documents:

recognition, intergenerational experiences, and it
reduces the frequency of the physical and economic
disruptions caused by construction. This FBC is

1. Downtown Strategic Plan (2024) designed to require high quality buildings that are

2. Murray City center design guidelines (2022) meant to last through future changes

3. General Plan (2017/2022) - aes Bi
4. CITY CENTER PLACE TYPE Figure 1.2 - View toward State Street from within the Murray
City Center area, 2024
3. ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY The Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) describes
Many of these existing planning goals can be a hierarchy of 9 place types in their FBC template and
supported by an increase in economic sustainability supporting documents. Within that hierarchy, Murray's
This FBC is designed to produce a built environment city center district is identified as an “urban center” :
; 7 . For Murray's City Center, alignment with goals and
that improves long term economic sustainability by place type but for the purposes of the Murray City
building & 4 igelaiioastst - 4itErE mee ‘ vision from the community is a key piece of the
requiring building forms and spatial relationships Center and this FBC we will refer to it as a “city center”
quTing 9 e “ e = ¥ form based code. This area could develop as a more
that can meet the needs of a wide variety of uses and place type. This puts Murray's city center district ;
significant job center for the city and region, bringing
users both now and in the future in context with the many other centers along the

n more housing and office space, multi-story

Wasatch Front region.

Single use buildings may not be economically development, and community open space such as

sustainable in the long term. Use changes in a A. DESCRIPTION AND INTENT plazas and parks.
building, or broader economic changes, can require

The cit lace t itended fi in th 1. FOR E
a single use building to sit vacant because it cannot Cyn a es a ee MAND USES

fairly intensive centers of activity, particularly historic This place type typically includes two or more

accommodate other uses or to be demolished and ;
downtowns of cities within the region. This place type

intersecting major street mixed use corridors with
allows for a range of building intensity and a wide mix ground floor commercial uses and office or residential
of uses, and is served by one or more modes of transit uses in upper stories, Stoop buildings typically

The limits of the city center place type, unlike those of surround these corridors, housing multiple family

the metropolitan center, typically include some lower
Buildings and spaces that are designed for a wide intensity edges

either rebuilt to meet the spatial needs of another
use, or sit as a vacant lot. These situations degrade
the experience, quality, and economic value of a

neighborhood.
units or offices, graduating down to edge subdistricts,

including row type housing or live work units. Some

variety of uses are more economically sustainable ; ;
yard building single family units may also be included.

Table of = Worksheet f= Glossary § CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents



17.171.010 PLACE TYPE

2. TRANSIT

The city center should be served by at least two
modes of frequent transit, including bus, bus rapid
transit, streetcar, light rail, or commuter rail with at
least fifteen minute headways. Major streets should
be designated at the transit stops, at least in one
direction, following the transit lines when possible.

3. PUBLIC SPACE

City center place types can support higher quality
public spaces due to the intensity of use and
incorporation of dense development in a limited area.

With the development of a city center for Murray,
public space can provide residents and visitors to Figure 1.3 - A ‘city center’ place type mixes different uses and various types of buildings and can integrate new development
the area a unique experience to Murray that will with historical structures to support existing development patterns.
further support business viability and desirability for

living and working in the City Center. Additionally,

connections to natural features such as Little
Cottonwood Creek can support quality of life for the
City Center.

Table of = [a-2|
Tableot (5), worksheet Chaaay 6 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

1. INTRODUCTION

A form district is a defined area to which the same set
of requirements are applied in the Form Based Code
(FBC). Multiple form districts provide a hierarchy of
forms and uses that work together to make a diverse
and cohesive City Center. This FBC describes five form
districts. The form district configuration for the Murray
City Center is customized to its unique characteristics

and goals of the community

A. MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM
DISTRICTS

The adjacent map shows the boundaries and
configuration of five form districts.

1. Civic Center (CC)

2. Boulevard (BD)

3. Neighborhood Corridor (NC

4. Residential Transition (RT

5. Transit Neighborhood (TN)

Sf
i A

Figure 2.1 - Murray City Center form districts map

Table of (= wisrkatinet g Gioxseiy 7 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

2. CIVIC CENTER FORM DISTRICT
(CC)

This form district is applied to the geographic and

are heavily mixed. Civic, gathering, and entertainment
spaces are conveniently located for workers, residents

and visitors

Characteristics:

1. Community gatherin

3. Restaurant, Recreation

Minimum Height: 3 stories

Maximum Height: 6 stories

Uses: Open space, civic, restaurant, reta

entertainment, hospitality, office, housing, structured

parking

Contents mY ¥

Table of Worksheet 8 Glossary 8 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

3. BOULEVARD FORM DISTRICT | Fe =i

(BD) wel =. s tL) 3
This form district addresses the conditions and 44 a ~ — | a | ie

|
goals along the State Street corridor. It is designed aise

to continue, or fill in, the street wall with buildings , i

that are of a scale and form that enhance the historic

character of this portion of State Street. This form
district recognizes that the spatial character of State

Street is different than that of 4800 South or Vine

Street

Characteristics:
1. Historic State Street character
2. Vertical mixed use
3. Active streetscape
Minimum Height: 2 stories
Maximum Height: 3 stories (5 stories if top floor(s)
are stepped back 30'-0" min. from front facade)

Uses: Retail, entertainment, restaurant, office, housing

Table of £5 worksheet 1S} Glossary 9 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
ontents


17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

A. HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE STATE
STREET CORRIDOR

1. Additional design requirements for buildings

fronting State Street are required by Murray City

The intent is to ensure

State Street reflect the historic context of existing

buildings along the corridor

2. Materials: Buildir des along State Street

should primarily be faced with historically

appropriate materials, finis colors. Figure 2.4 - Historically context sensitive new development,
illustrating appropriate materials, window inset, strong roof
termination, and pronounced entries.

3. Windows & Doors: Buildings should use a

ical window and door type, witt

windows recessed into the facade to create
historically appropriate window ledge depth
al requirements: Traditional elements

4. Add

provide norizonta

vertical modulation. For

example

(a) Pronounced entries

(b) Architectural banding,

(c) Primary verticals (windows),

(d) Strong roof termination (cornice) Figure 2.5 - Historically context sensitive new development,
illustrating appropriate materials, window patterns, ground
floor awnings and strong roof termination.

5. Architectural details: Additional det,

appropriate to historic architecture are

encouraged including awnings, light fixtures

blade signage, public art, etc

Table of
Contents

=), Worksheet 8 easy 10 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

4. NEIGHBORHOOD CORRIDOR
FORM DISTRICT (NC)

The Neighborhood Corridor form district is similar to

the Boulevard Form District alo’ Street but the

requirements are calibrated for the smaller scale of

development along 48

Characteristics:

1. Neighborhood supportive businesses
2. Residential focus
3. Horizontal mixed use

Minimum Height: 2 stories

Maximum Height: 3 stories

Uses: Office, retail, restaurant, housir

Figure 2.6 - Neighborhood Corridor form district map i &

Table of 11 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents

Is Glossary


17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

5. TRANSIT NEIGHBORHOOD | |
FORM DISTRICT (TN)

ae 2 ee ee: a) t---——
The two halves of the Transit Neighborhood (TN) % ta | | |} \ i i | i
ho - call —— oa a t ;

form district are unique in that they are the largest ate

areas not bisected by any roads and they both have
a“back” edge facing away from the City Center area.
The existing uses along these “back” edges, railway
and industrial to the west and the IMC campus to the
south, do not suggest a step down in building height

or use intensity.

This form district will have a high concentration of
development, including high quality office space and
housing, and will help activate the City Center with a
large daytime population of office workers and a large
nighttime population of residents. Adjacency to the
IMC campus could attract more office development
to this area, and proximity to the Front Runner and

TRAX stations could support a high concentration of
housing.
Characteristics:

1. Office concentration

2. Residential concentration

3. Vertical mixed-use
Minimum Height: 4 stories
Maximum Height: 8 stories

Uses: Office, housing, retail, restaurant, hospitality,
entertainment, structured parking

ide of S Worksheet 8 Glossary 12 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
ontents



17.171.020 FORM DISTRICTS

6. RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION
FORM DISTRICT (RT)

This form district provides a transition between the

existing single family neighborhood to the east and
the State Street scale developments to the west. It is
primarily residential with a variety of housing types.
Characteristics:
1. Step down in density from State Street corridor
2. Residential focus
3. Horizontal mixed densities
Minimum Height: 2 stories
Maximum Height: 3 stories

Uses: Housing, office

Table of (= warkenaet Gwsary 13 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.030 USE

17.171.030 USE

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 1. Unlisted Similar Use. If a use is not listed but is

similar in nature and impact to a use permitted

A. GENERAL PROVISIONS within a form district, the city may, through
This Form Based Code (FBC) does not use the Murray written determination, interpret the use as
City Standard Land Use Code permitted

The following provisions apply to the uses outlined in (a) The city may require traffic studies, impact

this chapter studies, or other such inquiries as part of the

\ unlisted similar use determination process
1. Permitted Mixed-Uses. Individual buildings . p

may contain more than one use. Use can vary (b) The unlisted use will be subject to any
between ground and upper floors of a building. development standards applicable to the
i 5 acl per similar permi e
2. Form District Permissions. Within each form ar permitted us
district, each use is either permitted by right (with 2. Unlisted Dissimilar Use. If a use is not listed Figure 3.1 - Lodging use example
some uses limited to upper floors only) or is not and cannot be interpreted as similar in nature
permitted. and impact to a permitted use within a form

distri 1 n rmit a vay only be
3. Building Type Permissions. Each use shall be sist. Sheree Fenok perreitied and May oly Ge a building, i.e. not in the ground floor. They are
Wo ; ip, as approved through an amendment of this code SES eee Dae
located within a permitted building type on a vey

P INDE ndicated with a“U" in the table

permitted floor. See Chapter 5.0
C. USE TABLE 3. Not Permitted. These uses are not permitted and

B. ORGANIZATION Table 3.1 outlines the uses in each form district as are indicated by an“N"in the table

permitted by one of the following three designations

Uses are grouped into seven general categories and Retail and service uses are further divided into

several subcategories 1. Permitted, These uses are permitted by right and General” and "Neighborhood" categories based on

lf a proposed use is not listed in the use tables, the indicated with a"P"in the table the use’s spatial scale and its typical service area size.

following shall apply 2. Permitted in Upper Stories Only. These uses are These provide longer lists with much more specific
permitted by right, but only in upper stories of use types. See Tables 3.2-3.5

Contents

Table of = Wortahaet 8 Glossary 14 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.030 USE

Table 3.1 - Murray City Center: Use by Form District Table 3.1 (continued) - Murray City Center: Use by Form District

a eee
[2Hospitaity ed
ie sa

4. Assembly (Public & Private) ee ee
[s.transit station | Ph Pe] ef ee
[6 Library/MuseumvPost fice] P| ON | ON [ON | ON |
[7.PublicSafety | eT] Pe
fa EducationTaining | op | pe | lp Pe

cso
Mi.OrveTwoughSS«dC AN 'o7 ON pee ON |

12. Medica! Cannabis* or Specialty ma N
Tobacco**
[i3.itinerant Merchants | Pe TP ee NY

P =Permitted | U = Permitted in Upper Stories Only | N = Not Permitted
*Pursuant to Utah Code 4-41a “*Pursuant to Utah Code 10-8-1-41.6

P = Permitted | U = Permitted in Upper Stories Only | N = Not Permitted

Form District Abbreviations
CC = City Center

BD = Boulevard

NC = Neighborhood Corridor
RT = Residential Transition

TN = Transit Neighborhood

Table of = Worksheet Glossary 15 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.030 USE

“Table 3.2- Neighborhood Service Uses

10. Fitness, Dance Studio, & Gym

[Table 3.4- Neighborhood Retail Uses

1. Alcohol & Liquor Sales 2. Antique Shop
3. Apparel & Accessory Store 4. Art & Education Supplies
5. Bakery, Retail 6. Bicycle Sales & Repair

7, Book, Magazine, & Newspaper 8. Building Materials, Hardware, and
Store Garden Supply

29, Smoke Shop 30. Specialty Food Market (Butcher,

(on-site processing permitted) for alcoholic beverage requests)

25. Training Center 26. Travel Agency & Tour Operator
27Neterinaan OE

Candy, Fish Market, Produce, etc.)
| 35.Wine &LiquorShop |

Ss

‘Table 3.3 - General Service Uses

1. All Neighborhood Service Uses | 2. > Animal Boarding (interior only) |
3. Aquatic Facilities 4. Batting Cages
5. Bowling Alley 6. Concert Hall

rvice
9. Miniature Golf Course 10, Recreation, Commercial
Indoor
11. Repair of Small Goods & 12. Shooting & Archery Ranges
Electronics (indoor only)

13, Skating Rink

15, Performance Theater 16. Medical Clinic
17. Dental Clinic | Cd

"Table 3.5 - General Retail Uses

1. All Neighborhood Retail Uses 2. Motorcycle & Motor Scocter Sales

4, Heating, Alr Conditioning & Plumbing
Rentals Supplies, Sales, & Service

Tete ae Se Worksheet 8 Glossary 16 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.030 USE

c Safety. The business location shall not
mpede auto and/or pedestrian traffic or create
auto/pedestrian conflicts. Private sidewalk clear

ths shall not be reduced below 5'-0" and the

itinerant business shall not interfere with the
internal parking lot circulation

6. Power. All electrical wiring must be in compliance
with the National Electrical Code and approved

by the Murray City Building Department

Generators and extension cords are permitted.

fae oie Figure 3.3 - Housing use example 7. Temporary Only, All aspects of the business shall
Figure 3.2 - Retail use example be temporary in nature with no permanent

ilities constructed on sit e, with the exception

2. SPECIFIC USE RESTRICTIONS 2. Impervious Surface. The business must be of the required permanent power source.

located on a hard surface with no portion of the ‘ j
F 8. Maintenance. The area around the business shall
A. ITINERANT MERCHANTS business located in a landscaped or unimproved A

be kept clean and orderly. A trash receptacle

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS afea shall be provided for patrons. The merchant is
itinerant uses shall not be permitted unless the 3. Setbacks. The business must be located a responsible to clean up all trash, litter, spills, etc,,

inimum of 5'-0" from combustible walls, roof within a minimum 20'-0" radius of the business.

following general and applicable specific criteria

are demonstrated as part of the business license eave lines, awnings, etc; 10-0" from any building 9. Business Conduct. The business may not solicit or
application: openings (.€.,, doors, windows, vents, etc); and 5 conduct business with persons in motor vehicles
0" from any fire hydrant, driveway, ADA accessible

1. Location on Private Property. The business and _ - or use any
parking spate and loading area e fOr motion-producing devices to attract attention to

ashing lights, noise, sound or other

any activity associated therewith must be located

queueing shall be provided on private property, seration
on private property and only as a secondary use = y its operatior

to another primary commercial use. The business 4. Lease. There must be a valid lease or written 10. Regulatory Compliance. All applicable local and

shall not be located on public property (including permission from the private property owner state regulations (i.e., food permit, tax numbers,
expressly allowing the use of property for the

public sidewalks, public streets, public parking registration, etc.) shall be met

business that is the subject of this section. The

areas of other public places as defined by the

11. Business License. All requirements of Murray City

merchant shall demonstrate the ability to utilize

city) or on vacant or residentially used property, Municipal Code shall be met.

regardless of the form district an existing rest room facility on o by the

property.

Table of
Contents

Worksheet okssary 17 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.030 USE

2. Vending Carts. Each bt cense application C. RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY
for a vending cart must comply with the BUSINESSES

following:

Retail tobacco specialty related uses are permitted in
(a) There shall be a minimum separation of 100'- a

‘orm districts with the following conditions.

0" between all vending cart locations. This 1

. Retail tobacco specialty businesses must comply

separation shall be measured as a radius ir with Utah Code 10-8-1-41.6 Rea
Wil Vu - “eo oa " ~

all directions. with the venaina cart locatior 7 c fs
all directions, with the vending cart locatio obacco Specialty Business

being the center point

2. Where allowed by S s subject to

ted no closer

Figure 3.4 - Public library civic use example (b) The vending cart mus
than 30'-0" mily residential

zone } D. OUTDOOR DINING

e requirements.

the applicable form distric

12. Site Plan. A site plan, drawn to scale, showing

the exact location of the itinerant merchant (¢) Any vending cart selling food items shall Outdoor dining uses shall comply with the following
} 100'-0’ of ar\ > j Wk
(including all components of the business) not be located within 100'-0” of the primary 1. The dining area shall be located on private
with setbacks to buildings, sidewalks, roadways, public entrance of an existing restaurant use property or leased public property and shall not
The exception to this is an existing restaurant diminish parking or landscaping

driveways, parking, fire hydrants, and other
is allow 9 operate a vending cart within
mportant features shall be provided. A s allowed to operate ding cart wit 2. Outdoor dining areas must be approved by the
this area, provided all other provisions of this yerage Services

photograph or illustration showing components Utah Department of Alc

of the business, including cart and awning ern Se eS DABS) in order to serve
dimensions, trash receptacles, coolers, signage B. MEDICAL CANNABIS 3. The dining area shall no
electrical plans, etc., shall be provided, as well as circulation

Medical Cannabis Pharmacies are a permitted use

other information required to show compliance
p

n the BD and NC form districts with the following 4. The dining area shall not impede emergency
with the applicable requirements contained . - =
CONGITIONS ~~

cess or circulation

nerein

The outdoor furnishings shall be compatible with

1. Medical Cannabis Pharmacies must comply 5.
2. SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS with Utah Code 4-41a: Cannabis Production the streetscape and associated building

1. Food Trucks. For food truck requirements, see Establishments and Pharmacies 6. No music or noise shall be in excess of the city

Murray City Code of Ordinances Chapter 17.44 noise ordinance, Title 8.01

2. Where allowed by State la

signage is subject to
Seasonal Uses

the applicable form district signage requirements

Table of

coal Worksheet 8 Gliascary 18 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.030 USE

7. No use after 10:30 p.m. and before 7:00 a.m. G. HOME OCCUPATION
8. In the Residential Transition (RT) form district, Home occupation uses shall comply with Murray City
no part of the outdoor dining area shall be Municipal Code and Qualifying Rules And Regulations.

located within 100'-0" of any existing residential

use (measured from the edge of the outdoor H. PROHIBITED USES

dining area to the closest property fine of the The following uses are prohibited throughout all form
residential use), unless the residential use is part districts:

of a mixed use building or the outdoor dining 1. Sexually Oriented Businesses

area is separated from the residential use by a
commercial building.

2. Automobile Sales and Automobile Service Uses

3. Medical Cannabis Production Establishment
9. Cooking facilities shall be located within the

primary building. No cooking facilities, including
grills, shall be permitted in the outdeor dining
area,

10, The outdoor dining area shall be kept in a clean
condition and free of litter and food items which
constitute a nuisance to public health, safety and
welfare.

E. PAWN SHOPS

Display areas are limited to those shown on the
approved site plan and may not exceed a combined
100 sq. ft. in size.

F, TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES

Telecommunication facility uses shall comply with
Murray Municipal code.

4. Outdoor Storage/Storage Facilities
5. Check Cashing Businesses
6. Drive Through Facilities

Table of (5 worrsheet Glossary 19 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.040 STREET TYPES

17.171.040 STREET TYPES

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS sections for any vehicular realm changes are 2. GENERAL STREET TYPE
determined by the Public Works Department and STANDARDS
subject to Murray Fire Department approval
A. STREET TYPES
C. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

1. Create complete streets that address all modes of Street types defined in this chapter describe the
All proposed streets, landscape or furnishings zones,

A. INTENT

The standards outlined in this chapter are intended to

travel, including pedestrian traffic, bicycle traffic, acceptable street configurations for the Form Based
‘ ra and sidewalks shall be | ed in icated vehicular - rec
transit:and vehicular traffic d sidewalks shall be located in dedicated vehicu Code (FBC) districts.
; rights-of-way. _ _

2. Address all features of the street right-of-way, he street type map for the City Center FBC area is

' 1. All new vehicular rights-of-way shall match one
ncluding sidewalks, parkways, traffic lanes, fe 9 ” : shown in Figure 4.1
ws , of the street types as described in Chapter 4.4 :

bicycle lanes, and medians us ; 1. Street type configurations are to be implemented
Street Types, whether publicly dedicated or F

3. Provide adequate access to all lots for vehicles privately held, when reconstructing existing streets or building
and pedestrians ; new streets.

4. Create streets that are appropriate for their D. STREET CONSTRUCTION (a) The city may require changes to the right-
context in each of the form districts and are SPECIFICATIONS of-way, pavement width, or additional
designed to encourage travel at appropriate 1. All construction in the right-of-way shall follow street elements depending on unique site
volumes and speeds specifications defined by the City and by UDOT characteristics

5. Create streets and public rights-of-way that aid in for State Street (b) The city may permit modifications to street
the safe and efficient management of stormwater 2. The street standards within this chapter are widths and required improvements. Any
runoff intended to be minimum requirements. The City modifications shall be approved by the

B. APPLICABILITY may use alternative designs when reconstructing relevant city departments and personnel

streets provided the general intent of street
This chapter defines pedestrian realm requirements construction specifications of the neighborhood
but does not regulate the vehicular realm. Cross-

2. The hierarchy of street types, from the most
major to the most minor street type is

s maintained (a) State Street

(b) Avenue

(c) Connector Street

Table of =
Tableot (5) worksheet Giossary 20 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.040 STREET TYPES

(d) Neighborhood Street
(e) Pedestrian Street
(f) Lane

B. GRAPHICS

The graphics in this chapter are illustrative examples
Exact street sections are subject to city review and
approval. When applying the described standards to
actual streets other configurations are possible.

C. TYPICAL STREET ELEMENTS

Typical elements of a right-of-way are divided into
vehicular and pedestrian realms. Generally, the

vehicular realm will be designed and controlled by
the city. The pedestrian realm will be designed and

improved by property owners, in coordination with
the city.

1. The vehicular realm is the space between the
curbs on both sides of a street. It may include
features like travel lanes, parking lanes, turn lanes,
transit stopping areas, bike lanes, and medians,

per the city's transportation master plan STREET TYPE |

2. The pedestrian realm is the space between the j
HRM State Street Neighborhood Street

back of a street curb and the property line of the {

adjacent parcel. It is typically subdivided into two MR Avenue GM Pedestrian Street

spaces, the park strip and the sidewalk. Some WRENS Connector Street Potential New Street

street sections may only have enough space for a

sidewalk. Figure 4.1 - Murray City Center street type map |

(a) The sidewalk is the paved area along the edge
of the right-of-way. Sidewalks are designed for

Table of ‘= [2-2]
bo meet = worksheet Glossary 21 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.040 STREET TYPES

the movement of pedestrian traffic in the clear zones, and all other reasonable
sidewalk, such as sitting and gathering. accommodations.

Furnishings zones may include street trees (b) All public transit facilities shall be coordinated
in grates, street furniture, lighting, signage, with the Utah Transit Authority.

bicycle parking, bollards, public art, and 2. Truck loading spaces (TLS) provide on-street

short term loading spaces for delivery trucks to

D. VEHICULAR TRAVEL LANES prevent them from parking in travel lanes and

pedestrian areas.

transit stops

The number and width of vehicular travel lanes, a

parking lanes, and bike lanes are described here by (a) Each TLS must be located in and fit within
. = - 1 1e5, '
Fighie a.2 =Street ype eenidering earl ; the width of an on-street parking lane. Street
street type, but are ultimately determined by the city's

s without on-street parking lanes may not
Public Works Department ‘ype is 9 .

the movement of pedestrian traffic along the have any TLSs.
street and pedestrian access to buildings. E. BICYCLE LANES (b) TLS pavement markings should clearly
(b) The park strip is the space between the Bicycle lanes and paths shall be constructed in define the size of the TLS and be adequate to
sidewalk and the curb. It acts as a buffer area accordance with existing plans, such as the city’s accommodate the length of a typical delivery
between the sidewalk and street. Park strips Parks, Trails, and Open Space Master Plan, the vehicle. This may require a longer space than
can be used in two different ways, described Midvalley Active Transportation Plan, Wasatch Front the standard on-street parking space
as two use zones, the landscape zone and Regional Council Beehive Bikeways Plan, and be (c) Each TLS shall include signage that:
Suse zone. These two use zones are coordinated with the city's public works plans and (i) Clearly posts the maximum time that a
intermixed along the length of each street requirements. delivery vehicle may occupy the space
based on the street type requirements. ‘
~ F. TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES and the times of day and days of the
(i) The landscape zone is where the park ; week when the TLS is reserved for delivery
strip is unpaved and landscaped with Transportation facilities include those for public transit vehicle loading activities
’ ’ and delivery trucks. a
EMO ai PUNE “ue i oo (ii) Indicate that regular on-street parking is
trees. It may also include swales, lighting, 1. Public transit facilities should be included at each allowed during non-loading times.
public art, and signage. transit stop according to the following criteria ;
" f h , ‘ (iii) The idling vehicle regulations in the
(ii) — ings zone is a paved (a) Public transit facilities are located in the Murray Municipal Code shall apply to
Im. | } .
of the pedestrian realm. It is designe furnishings zone of the park strip and may vehicles using a TLS
for the pedestrian uses that would block include loading areas, landings, ramps,

(d) The quantity and location of each TLS shall

transit shelters, benches, lighting, pedestrian : :
be determined by the Architectural Review

22 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Table of S
Contents mg Worksheet



17.171.040 STREET TYPES

Committee (ARC) and based on the demand
for loading space adjacent to existing
buildings and uses. The specific location of
each TLS shall be indicated on the street and/
or streetscape plans for each street

G. ON-STREET PARKING

On-street parking requirements and permissions

Eferteccecnresere see

$ H a

are determined by street type. See street type Ponnenns, SD ecepeee=-gagsain’ oy.
: rf | a
3 3 a

descriptions

H. STREETSCAPE LANDSCAPING

1. Streetscape designs shall be prepared for each

a5
a

street as part of a new or reconstructed street.
(a) Streetscape plans shall meet the requirements
in the pedestrian realm section of the
applicable street type requirements table
(i) The streetscape plan shall define the
size and spacing of the landscape and
furnishings zones

(ii) Planting plans shall be included for all
landscape zones and planted medians STREET TREES

2. Street trees are required along all street fronts Japanese Tree Lilac gE Common Hackberry 4]
' . . 1 u
'a) Street trees shall be located in the park strip or :
(a) ii WM Eastern Redbud Northern Acclaim , Bee i!
bulb-out. Honeylocust 5 1 FS by
(i) In furnishings zones, trees shall be located ae reer ee @«=e> Overhead Utilities 5 3
in tree wells, covered by tree grates, and MMMM Green Vase Zelkova  mnantas manennannadiais
planted in either structural soil or soil cells ' ¥y 3
. Figure 4.3 - Street trees species plan t ;
(ii) In landscape zones, trees shall be planted 12% :

eed

with the ground plane vegetation. |

,

Table of =
Contents Wortsnest

Glossary 23 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.040 STREET TYPES

being interrupted by or dead

ng at the

Table 4.1 - Street Tree Species

COMMON NAME BOTANICAL NAME
c
.

feature
2. The street network shall form an interconnected
pattern with multiple intersections
Vase Zelkova Zelkova serrata ‘Green Vase 3. The arrangement of new or reconstructed
Syringa reticulata streets shall provide for the continuation of

Northen Aceh Gleditea triscanthos Inert existing streets from adjoining areas into new

Honeylocust Northern Acclaim' subdivisions.
Wahoch Figure 4.4 - Using the same tree species on both sides of the
Wire 21KO' ZeiKO e ta Wire . . .
= ve street creates a stronger streetscape identity and experience B. INTERSECTIONS

1. Marked crosswalks are required at all intersections

and mid-block pedestrian crossings.

(iii) Where the park strip has a width of 4'-0" furnishings zones, and are very strongly encouraged,
or less, street trees may be planted in the All stormwater management structures and LID (a) Crosswalk dimensions and markings shall
adjacent property along the ROW line practices shall be coordinated with and meet the meet the requirements of the Manual on
(b) Street trees shall be regularly spaced at 25'-0" City’s Public Works Department standards anc Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD)/
on center and, where possible, coordinated requirements. APWA standards, per approval of the Public
with the sj inh - re Works department
with the location of light poles and utility wore
sone J. FIRE ACCESS ‘
poles in order to maintain consistent street (b) Crosswalk markings shall be clearly located on
Ctr confia | have been calculatec provide
tree spacing. Street tree locations shall meet Street configurations have been calculated to provide the finished street surface and where required
AASHTO sight triangle requirements emergency vehicle access. Plans for the constructior in parking and access areas. Crosswalks
or reconstruction of streets shall be reviewed by the shall be marked with textured or colored

(c) Along State Street, city planning staff may
Fire Department

yement, thermopla lications, or

conditionally approve a modification to

another marking approved by the city.

street tree location if the 25'-0" requirement 3. GENERAL STREET LAYOUT

impedes building facade visibility. (c) Crosswalks with creative markings are allowed

REQUIREMENTS
A. GENERAL LAYOUT STANDARDS

Low Impact Development (LID) is encouraged. This d) C
The f 5 only to new-ctreete or newh (d) ¢
ollowing standards apply to new streets or newly

as a form of public art, with approval from the

|. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT

rage pedestrian

ncludes incorporating stormwater management best vity. The required bulb-outs decrease

, platted vehicular rights-of-way

practices. Park strip features that help with stormwater - unprotected crosswalk lengths which

management include bioswales, slotted curbs in the Va: SEES stall Cie esigried ta reSpeCt natal increases pedestrian safety and comfort
fos “hh +) yy follow by

landscape zones, and permeable pavement in the eatures, such as slopes, by following rather than

Contents

abe of S Worksheet Glossary 24 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.040 STREET TYPES

(e) Accessibility features such as ramps and
warning panels, per the City’s design
standards, are required where all sidewalks
terminate at a crosswalk or curb.

{f) Ramps shall be oriented perpendicular to
traffic, requiring two ramps per corner at
intersecting streets.

2. Bulb-Outs shall be constructed at all intersections
and mid-block crossings unless prohibited by the
city.

(a) The depth of the bulb-out shall match the
depth of the adjacent on-street parking lane
{if any).

(b) The radius of each bulb-out shall match the
radius requlrements per the city Public Works
Department.

(c) Bulb-outs shal! be planted with low-
maintenance water efficient live plants, which
may include trees, that have a low mature
height to provide unobstructed safety sight
lines without requiring constant pruning.

C. STREET LIGHTING

1. INTENT
1. To provide a safe and secure environment for
motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians.
2. To reduce glare from street and pedestrian lights
on adjoining residences.

Table of
Contents Worksheet Glossary

3. To contribute to the quality of each streetscape
by integrating street light spacing and street tree
spacing.

4. To respond to and further neighborhood
character through the selection of light
poles, bases, and fixtures appropriate to the
commercial, residential ox civic nature of
surrounding uses.

5. To select consistent light poles, fixtures, lamp
types, finishes and colors for all pedestrian and
street lights.

25

CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.040 STREET TYPES

4. STREET TYPES

A. STATE STREET
7-0" sidewalk on both sides of the street

LINTENT

This special street type is based on the vision for

State Street from Murray City General Plan. The Evenly spaced to achieve desired light coverage
configuration would be coordinated between the Ci F and per fixture manufacturer's guidelines; street

9 . . Y 4. Street Lights light spacing shoutd be coordinated with street tree
and UDOT with the goals of achieving lower traffic locations wherever possible

speed, wider pedestrian realm, on-street parking, and Required: raised curb planters, street trees located
street lights. in planters, water efficient low-maintenance

5. Landscape Zone omamental plants, street lights, no lawn

This street type also includes elements that were not As Needed: street signage, utilities, public art,
part of the original historic State Street streetscape. bollards

Some of these elements are currently installed

Required: trees in tree wells with grates, seating, bike
along portions of the street and include street trees, 6. Furnishings Zone rack garbage can, lighting
aoe . As Needed; street signage, utilities, public art,
street furnishings, and ornamental plantings. These bollards

elements create a more pedestrian oriented street The State Street park strips are predominantly

and help set State Street apart as a special street furnishings zones with landscape zones limited to

within the neighborhood and city. 7. Zone Spacing all bulb-outs. The frequency/spacing of furnishings,
9 Bs trees, and street lights are to be defined ina

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS streetscape plan.

When State Street is newly constructed or
feconstructed, in whole or in part, the pedestrian
tealm shall be built according to the standards in
Table 4.2. Measurements shown in these standards
may need to be adjusted to actual dimensions on the
ground. The installation of new streetscape elements
shall emulate, and provide continuity with, the This street type only applies to the section of State
streetscape elements already installed on State Street. Street within the FBC boundary.

3. APPLICABILITY

Table of Worksheet B Glossary 26 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
onten 4



17.171.040 STREET TYPES

B. AVENUE STREET TYPE

1. INTENT

Table 4.3 - Avenue Street Requirements

The avenue is a medium to high capacity street for

higher speeds with a wider r -way. It serves
’ 5 3. Street Trees
all types of development and provides crosstown

V yaced to achieve desired

=
connections, er Ire manufacturer's a
g should be coordin
ever possible

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Required:

Avenues shall be developed using the standards in }
dlanters, water efficien

Table 4.3

3. APPLICABILITY wees
5. Landscaping

This street type applies to the section of Vine Street
that is within the FBC boundary.

Figure 4.5 - Avenue street example

Table of (&} worksheet 8 Glossary 27 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17,171,040 STREET TYPES

C. CONNECTOR STREET TYPE  etcaot B.

Tabie 4.4 -:Connector Street Requirements
PEDESTRIAN REA! San So
1. Sidewalk 7'-0" min. sidewalk on both sides of the street
2. Width 5'-0" park strip on both sides of the street
Evenly spaced at 30'-0" on center

Evenly spaced to achieve desired light coverage
and per fixture manufacturer's guidelines; street
light spacing should be coordinated with street tree
locations wherever. possib!e

Required: at-grade planters, street trees located
in planters, water efficient low-maintenance
ormamental plants, street lights, no lawn

As Needed: street signage, utilities, public art,
bollards

Neighborhood Street park strips are all landscaped.
The spacing of trees and street lights are to be
defined in a streetscape plan.

1.INTENT

The connector street is a medium capacity street for
slow speeds with a standard right-of-way. It primarily
serves as a through street within the neighborhood
and connects neighborhood streets to avenues.

4. Street Lights

Park Strip
S. Landscaping

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Connector streets shall be developed using the
standards in Table 4.4.

3. APPLICABILITY

This street type applies to 4800 South and Hanauer
Street.

ele of (S Worksheet Glossary 28 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.040 STREET TYPES

D. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET TYPE Table 4.5 - Neighborhood Street Requirements

1. INTENT JPEDESTRIAN\REAL 1} cr cc
The neighborhood street is a low capacity street 1. Sidewalk 5'-0" sidewalk on both sides of the street
2. Width 6'-0" park strip on both sides of the street

Evenly spaced to achieve desired light coverage
and per fixture manufacturer's guidelines; street

4. Street Lights + . .
light spacing should be coordinated with street tree
2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS tocations wherever possible

Park Strip Required: at-grade planters, street trees located
in planters, water efficient low-maintenance
omamenta! plants, street lights, no lawn

F As Needed: street signage, utilities, public art,
5, Landscaping bollards gnag P

designed for slow speeds with a standard right-of-
way. It primarily serves those residences or businesses
directly adjacent to it.

The neighborhood street shall be developed using
the standards in Table 4.5.

3. APPLICABILITY

This street type applies to Box Elder Street, 5th
Avenue, 4th Avenue, Poplar Street, Brown Street,
Center Street, Court Avenue, Arlington Avenue, and
Jones Court.

Neighborhood Street park strips are all landscaped.

The spacing of trees and street lights are to be
defined in a streetscape plan.

If the potential new streets, as shown on the
street type map, will be built, they will also be the
neighborhood street type.

Tableof —— Epworkshect [ESP ctossary 29 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.040 STREET TYPES

E. PEDESTRIAN STREET TYPE
1. INTENT

 Table4. 6 - ‘Pedest! an Street Requirements

IVEHICUTAR REALM (exarm tc)
1 Typical Right-of-Way
2. Emergency/Delivery Lane 1 lane, 22'-0" wide, in the center of the ROW

[PEDESTRIAN REA SS

4. Sidewalk 8-0" sidewalk on both sides of the street
5. Width 6'-0" park strip on both sides of the street
Evenly spaced at 30'-0" on center

Evenly spaced to achieve desired light coverage
and per fixture manufacturer's guidelines; street
light spacing should be coordinated with street tree
locations wherever possible

The pedestrian street is designed primarily for
pedestrian use. The majority of the right-of-way is
designated as pedestrian realm. The vehicular realm
is limited to shared use lanes in the center of the
right-of-way. Vehicular use of these lanes is limited
to delivery vehicles, emergency vehicles, and event
related vehicles such as food trucks. The shared use
lanes are separated by a barrier that permits the flow
of pedestrians but is impermeable to vehicles.

7. Street Lights

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS Required: trees in tree wells with grates, seating,

bike rack, garbage can, lighting, pedestrian
permeable barrier/transition features to identify the
edge of the shared use lanes

As Needed: street signage, utilities, public art,
bollards

Pedestrian street park strips are all furnishings zones.
The layout and design of the pedestrian street
features are to be defined ina streetscape plan.

Park Stri
The surveyed width of the Poplar Street ROW may omen

be closer to 54-0" in which case the additional width
sha!l be added to the Emergency/Delivery lane.

8. Furnishings Zone

The pedestrian street shall be developed using the
standards in Table 4.6.

3. APPLICABILITY

Poplar Street is the only street that is designated as a

pedestrian street.
F, LANE STREET TYPE (FUTURE) I Table 4. 7- Example f Lane ean reguemens

1. INTENT
The Lane street type is intended for providing
connectivity within block interiors.
2- GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
The lane street shall be developed using the a
standards in Table 4,7.

Table of Worksheet Glossary 30 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.040 STREET TYPES

5. POTENTIAL FUTURE
CONNECTIONS

As the City Center is redeveloped there will be
increased demand for pedestrian and active
transportation connections. There are some
opportunities to improve these connections and
create more walkable and efficient street and
pedestrian networks

1. Potential Vehicular Connections

(a) Extend some existing streets in the areas west
of Box Elder St. and south of Vine St

(b) Use the 2 existing lanes that provide vehicular
access to the interior of the blocks and
consider improving pedestrian access.

2. Potential Pedestrian Connection

(a) A pedestrian bridge across Little Cottonwood

Creek on the south central edge of the FBC

area will create a pedestrian link between the a

City Center and Murray Park. Any bridge and '
path must meet requirements for building reese)

inside the riparian area
Pedestrian Connection

(b) A pedestrian path from Sth Ave. and Box Elder
SOBSBE Vehicular Connection
St. that parallels the existing railroad tracks

Existing Interior
S
and connects to 4800 S. Cc) Block Connection

Figure 4.6 - Potential future connections map

Table of 31 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents



17,171,050 BUILDING TYPES

17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

1. INTRODUCTION

Buildings are one of the most prominent components
of the built environment and collectively define much
of the character of a streetscape and neighborhood
These building type requirements define the

building forms within certain limits such that they
meet the goals of each district. The parameters are
location-based so the building requirements for each
development will be specific to its site location.

2. FRONTAGES
A. INTENT

Frontages determine where the front facade of the

building is located and define the spatial relationship
between the front of a building and the street.
Frontage requirements are designed to create both

connections and transitions between the private

space in a building and the public space of a street:

Frontage types are assigned by street so that both ERONIAGE THPES

ma Primary Frontage
mmm Secondary Frontage
Tertiary Frontage
mums No Frontage
===" Double Front Street Condition

sides of the street have the same public/private
spatial characteristics. Building requirements vary by
the frontage and form district assigned to the lot (or
project site). The location of a building lot determines

the form district, frontage type(s), and lot type

Figure 5.1 - Frontage types map

Table of ‘Ss Wortsneet Glestaiy 32 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents —



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

B. FRONTAGE TYPE HIERARCHY 2. DESIGN STANDARDS spatial relationship types may vary with each block
Frontage types form a hierarchy, similar to the Requirements for primary frontages are defined per and development but maintain the pedestrian realm.
hierarchy of street types, that intentionally vary building type and form district in the Part 2: Primary Tertiary frontages are intended for the local streets
different elements of the Form Based Code (FBC) Frontage tables for the applicable building types. where most of the driveways and intersections are.
such as use intensity, building forms, and transition to D. SECONDARY FRONTAGE These streets are the final destinations within much
adjacent areas. of the City Center Area. The values of the various
Three frontage types are defined and applied to 1. INTENT parameters provide the most flexibility of the frontage
specific streets, as shown in the frontage type.map, Secondary frontages accommodate medium intensity types.
Figure 5.1. The primary frontage is applied to the State development. The purpose is to transition from the The tertiary frontage is applied to Box Elder Street,
Street. The secondary frontage is applied to 4800 more urbanized spatial relationships of major roads to Hanauer Street, Sth Avenue, Poplar Street, Brown
South and Vine Street. The tertiary frontage is applied less urbanized building/street spatial relationships. Street, Center Street, Court Avenue, Jones Court, and
to all other streets within the form districts. Secondary frontages are intended for medium width/ Arlington Avenue. See Figure 5.1 - Frontage Type Map.
C. PRIMARY FRONTAGE capacity streets with more driveways and focal street 2. DESIGN STANDARDS
intersections. The values of the secondary frontage .
: ; , Requirements for tertiary frontages are defined per
1. INTENT parameters provide more flexibility than the primary ap peas :
. . oo building type and form district in the Part 2: Tertiary
Primary frontages accommodate more intense frontage, allowing for increased spatial diversity and Frontage tables for the applicable building types.
development and maintain more urbanized types of development styles. Secondary frontage is applied to
spatial relationships between buildings and streets. 4800 South and Vine Street. See Figure 5.1 - Frontage F. NO FRONTAGE
Buildings are located very close to the right-of- Type Map. 1. INTENT
ae . io a consistent street wall and prioritize 2. DESIGN STANDARDS The no frontage designation is used to identify
Requirements for secondary frontages are defined streets where the front facade of a building is never
Primary frontages are intended for wider, higher per building type and form district in the Part 2: permitted, Side and rear facades are permitted along
speed/capacity streets with fewer driveways and Secondary Frontage tables for the applicable building ano frontage street. 4th Avenue is the only street with
intersections. The values of the various parameters types. ano frontage designation.
provide less flexibility than secondary frontages. The
primary frontage is applied only to State Street. See E. TERTIARY FRONTAGE 2. DESIGN STANDARDS
Figure 5.1 - Frontage Type Map. INTENT Ano frontage street will always be designated as

either a side street and side property line or a rear
street and rear property line, depending on the
specific lot/frontage configuration. Side or rear

Tertiary frontages accommodate various scales of
development intensity. The purpose is to provide
pedestrian and vehicular access at the block scale. The

Table of Worksheet Glossary 33 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Side Street Front Street (iii) The 2 side property lines are adjacent to
the front property line.

(iv) The rear property line is opposite the front
property line.
(b) Lot Type 2 is a corner lot that has two
frontages which are different types.

(i) The street with the higher frontage is the

front street.

1 1 }
i i i . Front Line a) Th ith t! wer front2 is th
n rt ——-——+#--+H (1) interior Lot LF | Property (ii) The street with the lower frontage is the
: : : a Side Property Line side street.
Hi u oO ua 2% (2) Corner Lot: Different Frontage Types a ial
=z (3 (3) ' (2) ‘ BE pam Rear Property Line (iii) The front property line is located along the
5s i i i {3} Comer Lot: Same Frontage Type : front streat
v (C855 (4) Through tot Se eee
& Mmmm = Secondary Frontage (iv) The 2 side property lines are adjacent to
rE . SH
py rapier on (5) End Through Lot Tertiary Frontage the front property line, one of which is

; located along the side street
Figure 5.2 - Frontage, lot, street, and property line types example diagrams. Note the variation of lot type 5 based on a different

frontage configuration. (v) The rear property line is opposite the front
property line

requirements in the building type tables apply to development project. Each lot has one or more (c) Lot Type 3 is a corner lot that has two
buildings on a no frontage street. frontages. There are 5 lot types, each defined by frontages which are the same type. All the
its unique configuration of frontage type(s), street instances of this type of lot have tertiary and
3. LOT TYPES type(s) and property line type(s) tertiary frontages.
The site-specific parameters of frontage and lot (a) Lot Type 1 is an interior lot, meaning it is (i) The front street is the north-south street.
type are used to determine a lot's front street(s) located on in interior of the block betweer (ii) The side street is the east-west street.
and its property line types. These location based corer lots. It has 1 frontage. (iii) The front property line is along the front
characteristics are used to vary parameter values in (i) The street along the frontage is the front street
the building requirements. The use of some of these street (iv) The 2 side property lines are adjacent to
terms will differ from how they are used outside of (ii) The front property line is located along the the front property line, one of whichis
saninies front street located along the side street

1. Frontage and Lot Type. A lot is defined as one

or more parcels that are included in the same

Table of ‘— la-z))
bs ote f= Worksheet Gloxsney 34 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

(v) The rear property line is opposite the front (iv) The front property line is located along the | i i Comer Lot: Same
property line. front street. ! i kromiage (iit
(d) Lot Type 4 is a through lot, meaning it extends (v) The 2 side property lines are adjacent to | (3) Ls Fi | ve ‘i
z z > Property Line
from street to street through the entire block the front property line. One or both are 5 ! '
2 ees EB Rear Property Line
It has 2 frontages located on opposite sides of located along the side street(s), depending Sean _ seers gy 8 :
the block. on the location of the front street Front Street
(i) The street with the higher frontage is the (vi) The rear property line is opposite the front Figure 5.3 - Double front street condition diagram
front street. property line, which may or may not be
(ii) The street with the lower frontage is the located along the rear street, depending
the minimum width as a standard, and the
rear street. on the location of the front street.
ee ; _ remaining frontage shall be covered by a
iii | , . Double Front Street Condition. A conditional
(iii) The front property line is located along the woe mons relia building or Build to Zone (BTZ) pedestrian

requirement for Lot Type 3 (a corner lot where

front street space, as otherwise allowed within this FBC.

(iv) The 2 side property lines are adjacent to the two frontages are of the same type). Where

the front property line applied, both streets are designated as front 4. BUILDING TYPES

streets and the iding has 2 front street/
(v) The rear property line is located along the einai nul ana ae _— This FBC describes 5 building types
primary facades. There are 2 front property lines, .

rear street. ; G ,;
2 side property lines, and no rear property lines. 1. Genera

. | :
(e) Lot Type 5 is an end through lot, meaning it Se @amiplediagram ih Figuie 53: This tonaitian 2. Limited Bay
extends through the entire block and is on -
applies only where indicated on Figure 5.1 - 3. Row
the end of the block. It has 3 frontages which
Frontage Type Map 4. Yard
can be configured in different ways so 2 ; .
3. Minimum Frontage Coverage Reduction. The 5. Civic

examples are shown in Figure 5.2
; minimum frontage coverage may be reduced, Suite — -
i h the high is th uilding types are permitted by form district. Table 5.1
ti) om cacti mains mane with the approval of the Architectural Review . * id “2 . 4 de
" lists which building types are permitted in each form
font street Committee (ARC), to allow for an access driveway ap p

i ; : district.
(ii) The street(s) adjacent to front street is when no other frontage is available for vehicular tri
the side street. There may be 1 or 2 side access
streets, depending on the location of the (a) When frontage coverage is reduced using 5. BUILDING TYPE GENERAL
front street. , REQUIREMENTS
this provision, the provided driveway shall
(iii) The street opposite the front street is the be limited to the minimum width required Before applying the requirements in this chapter to

rear street. If there are 2 side streets there for access, as determined by the ARC using a proposed building or development, first the form

is No rear street district and frontage type(s) for the development lot

a of =} sacriaiiees 1S) Gloseaiy 35 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
contents :


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.1 - Building Type by Form District (c) Accessory hospitality uses, such as lobbies, (b) When required, al! of the BTZ pedestrian
meeting rooms, gyms, mail rooms, etc. are space shall be designated as public open
permitted both within and outside of the space.

ee oe oe i occupied space as required along the front (c) When permitted, BTZ pedestrian space
LimitedBay | NTN | P | NN | street facade. may be designated as public open space
ee ee ee 4. Build to Zone (BTZ). The build to zone identifies or as private open space associated with
Scatieiiean the area, or zone, on the ground where the the adjacent building facade, per the

building facade must be located. All property development’s site plan and design. Public
P= Permitted | N = Not Permitted lines abutting a public right-of-way have a BTZ and private designations may vary along the
requirement. The BTZ is expressed as the area facade(s) e.g. at public entrances and private
are to be determined based on the lot's location in between a minimum offset and maximum offset, entrances.
the form district and frontage type area maps. SS TIN ITC ETT TNR epee oly praerty (d) When not permitted, BTZ pedestrian
All building types must meet the following ane SPOR Sieh oe PeaONen aS Ene eee
onlentinei (a) The entire front face of building facades must associated with the adjacent building facade.
be located within the BTZ. For architectural! Private BTZ pedestrian space may be enclosed

1. Form District. Each building type shall be buitt variety and facade articulation, such as vertical by a fence no more than 3'-0" tall
sis hae eniidmeniadiibaragies ior facade divisions, the setback distance for (e) Public BTZ pedestrian spaces shall meet the
explicitly allowed, as shown in the individual different parts of the building should vary enitinnacinal ea Utl cana take
building type tables and summarized in Table 5.1. withinithexrnininurnandiresarunysethacks pen space We ae aeneaa WHERIGO:

2. Use. Each building type can accommodate a of the BTZ. 6. Required Occupied Space. Occupied spaces are
salam suan"s rea niahmeaa es iia 5. BTZ Pedestrian Space. The BTZ pedestrian space interior building spaces regularly occupied by the
SER ae OT 2 SEEN SB OT requirement applies to any space, inside a BTZ, building users such as retail shops, offices, gyms,
building type. See individual building type tables. between the building facade and right-of-way celia eaaaaaaE hapa ak

3. Ground Floor Residential and Hospitality Use property line. BTZ pedestrian space is visually and include storage areas, utility space, bathrooms,
Restriction. spatially connected to the pedestrian realm of or parking. The occupied space requirement only
(a) Residential units are permitted on the ground the adjacent sidewalk. applies to the required frontage area

floor in some building types and form (a) BTZ pedestrian space is located on private 7. Blank Wall Limitation. A restriction of the amount
ce property and is part of each project's site plan of contiguous windowless area permitted on a
(b) Hospitality units are not permitted on the and design drawings. facade that fronts on a street. When required the
ground floor. following shall both be met for each story:
36 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Table of al
pancho => Worksheet



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

(a) No rectangular area greater than 30% of a The following shall never be permitted to canopies, parking structure, storage, utility, and
story's facade, as measured flocr to floor, may encroach into the ROW: maintenance sheds, etc. ,
be windowless. (a) Structural footings (a) Structures attached to the principal building

(b) No rectangular segment of a story's facade (b} Stairways are considered part of the principal building
with a horizontal width great er than 15’-0" () Access ramps and are not accessory structures.
may be windowless. (d) Window wells (b) Detached accessory structures are permitted

8. Vertical Facade Divisions. Vertical sections of {e) Door swings according to each building type (see
the facade that are separated by varying facade individual building type tables) and shall

11. Corner Facade. On cornex lots only, the new

comply with all setbacks except the fallowing:
facade plane created when the two facade

features such as BTZ location (setback), materials,
fenestration, articulation, vertical expression lines, . (} Detached accessory structures are not
ncctan ct planes that meet at the corner of a building are an
- etc. The purpose of the divisions is to break up ; . . permitted in the front yard, side yard of
chamfered. The Architectural Review Committee

long facades into smaller sections. One vertical ; ; corner lots, or any space between the
eet a hae (ARC) may allow alternative corner designs
facade division is also referred to as a “bay” or

“facade bay? ifa finding is made that the proposal meets

poll { Facade Divisions. Horizontal secti the intent of the code and is architecturally " ° ;
9. Horizontal Facace Divisions. rrorizontal sections prominent and clearly visible from both abutting located in the side yard or behind the

of the facade that are visually separated by a streets. principal building in the rear yard.

horizontal expression line that runs the length of 12. No Other Building Types. All constructed (iii) Detached accessory structures shall

principal bullding and the right-of-way.
{ii} Detached accessory structures shall be

Secon facade or one or more vertical facade buildings must meet the requirements of one of not exceed the height of the principal
the building types permitted within the given building.
10. Enctoachments. An encroachment refers to form district. (c) Accessory structures shall be built in a manner
any portion of a building that projects over a compatible with the principal building and

13. Permanent Structures. All buildings constructed
shall be permanent construction without a

chassis, hitch, wheels, or other features that make
the structure mobile. (d) Accessory structures must be located a

minimum distance of 6-0" from primary

property line and into the pedestrian realm area
of a public ROW. All encroachments must provide
adequate vertical clearance from the pedestrian
realm below. Encroachments are permitted, by
building type and form district for:

shall use the same or similar quatity materials
as the principal building.

14, Accessory Structures are structures located on

the same lot as, but detached from, the principal buildings.
(a) Roof overhang _ wee @
building(s) with use(s) that are incidental (e) Accessory structures are permitted in any
(b) Balcony to the use(s) of the principal building(s). single-use residential development, regardless
(c) Awning Examples include a garage, ADU, parking tot of the building type or form district.
(d) Canopy 15. Building Length. Maximum and minimum

Contr 37 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
fal Contents Worksheet 8 Glossary


17,171.050 BUILDING TYPES

16.

17

18.

19.

20.

building lengths, as measured along the right-of-
way property lines, are determined by frontage
coverage and setback distances,

Grade Separation. Ground floor residential units
are recommended to be vertically separated by
no more than 4’-0" above or below the sidewalk
level.

. Theme and Unity. The architectural design within

a single development that includes multiple
structures shall be organized around a consistent
architectural theme in terms of the character,
materials, texture, colar, and scale of buildings:
Restaurants, retail chains, and other franchise-
style structures shall adjust their standard
architectural theme to be consistent with the
development's overall architectural character.
Active Streetscape. Variation in architecture

is encouraged to create a more appealing
streetscape. Variety can be achieved through:
porches, terraces, plazas, stoops, awnings,
galleries, arcades, balconies, and canopies.
Primary entrances for all building types shall be
located along the front street facade.

Vehicle Access Type. Parking lots and parking
structures are accessed from the street via
driveway(s). Driveways may be one-way or two-
way, which includes right turn in/right turn out
driveways. A portal is an opening in the ground
floor of a building through which the driveway

Table of
Contents Worksheet 8 Glossary

21.

22.

Passes to connect to a parking lot/structure
inside or behind the building.

Driveways shali maintain a sight triangle with a

minimum side length of 15’-0"as measured from

the face of the curb perpendicular to the street:

Police and fire facilities require a special use

permit. The facilities shall be housed in a

permitted building, but shall have the following

additional allowances:

(a) Garage doors are permitted on the front
facade.

(b) Exempt from maximum driveway widths.

Pursuant to Utah Code 10-9a-534 (effective

1 November 2024}, and superseding the FBC

requirements where applicable, a requirement

for any of the following building design elements

shall not be imposed on’a one- or two-family

dwelling:

{a} exterior color;

(b) type or style of exterior cladding material;

(c) style, dimensions, or materials of a roof
structure, roof pitch, or porch;

(d) exterior nonstructural architectural
ornamentation;

(e) location, design, placement, or architectural
styling of a window or door;

(f) location, design, placement, or architectural
styling of a garage door, not including a rear-
loading garage door;

38

(g) number or type of rooms;
(h) interior layout of a room;
(i) minimum square footage over 1,000 square
feet, not including a garage;
(i) rear yard landscaping requirements;
(kK) minimum building dimensions; or
() a requirement to install front yard fencing.
23. Pursuant to Utah Code 10-9a-538 (effective 1
November 2024), for residential buildings, no
municipal ordinance, resolution, or policy shall
prohibit, or effectively prohibit, the following
structures from being built within the rear
property line building setback:
(a) a landing or walkout porch that Is:
() no more than 32 square feet in size; and
(ii} used for ingress to and egress from the
rear of the residential dwelling;

(b) a window well.
Landing is defined as an uncovered, above-

ground platform, with or without stairs,
connected to the rear of a residential dwelling.

Walkout Porch fs defined as an uncovered
platform that is on the ground and connected to
the rear of a residential dwelling.

CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

6. GENERAL BUILDING
A. INTENT

building type is ir

be a mixed

e genere

ont and corner

use building located clos
property lines. This siting location adds to the street

O passing pedestrians

wall and provides e

and transit riders.

Parking may be provided in the rear of the lot, interna

~ Wi Figure 5.5 - General building example with storefront
a Z

ng structure a ae entrances, horizontal and vertical facade divisions, and

driveway portal

the rear or side

Vehicular access should be

the front

of the lot, or ror side does not

abut a public ROW. Access f of the lot

may include one-way, two rn in/right

turn Out ariveways. ON ore than one street

frontage, vehicular access must be located on the side

or rear street

ty of sizes and

This building can be scal

use mixes as needed for any given parcel and in eact t
= _ ~ >
B. REGULATIONS

Figure 5.4 - General building examples with stoop entrance
(top) and storefront entrance (bottom)

Figure 5.6 - Example of general buildings around a public
The general building type is permitted in all form open space

ia)
districts. Regulations for the general building type are

Table of
Contents

Gissary 39 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.2 - General Building Requirements Part 1

residential,
retail, office, retail, office, service
service

residential, lodging, retail, office, service
Se a

rincipal Building Minimum a | | =
Principal Building Maximum 3 stories(4258)| __4stories_ | Sstories | 3 stories_ |
Figure 5.7 - General building street facade diagram shown 9. Accessory Structure Max not permitted

with corner tower, stoop entry type, and parapet roof type. - -
Not to scale. 10. Ground Floor Height Se dais 12-0" min. / 24-0" max. Gulla chim
; 30'-0" max. i 30'-0" max. 14’-0" max

9-0" min / 14-0" max

residential,
retail, service

fon facade rece
13, Principal Entrance Type(s) STF_ARC, STP
1 per each vertical facade division min. / 1 per — floor unit min

15. Ground Floor Transparency 20% residential 35% 35%

Minimum 40% non-res.

16. Upper Fioor(s) Transparency | 20% residential .
Minimum 30% non-res. rr sie aa

17. Blank Wall Limitation required per floor

18. Vertical Facade Divisions 25'-0" to 40'-0" of facade width a O"to 30-0
of facade width

Fi 5.8-G | building heigh' i ih
ena ss hap isaac rome use singe aaa within 3'-0" of top of ground floor AND every third floor above first floor

with basement and rear building interior parking, stoop
entry type, and parapet roof type. Not to scale.
PAPLE eee

+258 permits up to 2 additional stories if they are stepped back a minimum of 30'-0" from the front facade

Leotull = workshiset Glossaty 40 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.3 - General Building Requirements Part 2: Primary Frontage

TE

23. Side Yard Setback Minimum

Street Facade(s)

28, Occupation of Corner

5 a a SE a a \.
Front Street os

Figure 5.9 - General building siting diagram shown with
corner tower and rear vehicular access. Not to scale.

G
balcony, C=canopy, R=roof overhang

22] :
——— B39) Front Street

Figure 5.10 - Building placement example diagram. Not to scale.

Contents

Table of f=} sidcatshiek 1S) eeazy 41 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

= or eee

TY

22. Front Build to Zone 0-0'to 10-0"
26 Side Street Facade a ee ee ee

lable required

27. BTZ Pedestrian Space

CORNER LOT BUILDINGS

28. Occupation of Corner
9-0"t0 5-0"

30_Front Street Facade(s)

31_Side Street Facade

fear yard, rear yard,

side yard

reat yard, side yard

36. Upper Floor(s) 5-0" max.
PROJECTION TYPES: A=awning, B=balcony, C=canopy, R=roof overhang

Front Street

Figure 5.11 - General building siting diagram shown with
corner tower and rear vehicular access. Not to scale.

33. Parking Location Parking Tabie

34. Loading/Service Entry Location

39

Front Street

Figure 5.12 - Building placement example diagram. Not to
scale.

40. Side Street/Rear Street

Table of = Worksheet Glossary 42 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.5 - General Building Requirements Part 2: Tertiary Frontage

0'-0’ to 5'-0" 0-0"to 10'-0"
Ft
3
27.8 7 Table required
ccupation
31, Side Street F 30-0" min.

Front Street

Figure 5.13 - General building siting diagram shown with
corner tower and rear vehicular access. Not to scale.

finteriog Lor Tomeriot 29 ‘
- ss ¢

FRONT STREET

35. Ground Floor not permitted

pe
Font Ste

bid Front Street
Figure 5.14 - Building placement example diagram. Not to
scale.

Coe, Ep Worksheet Glossary 43 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

7. LIMITED BAY BUILDING

A. INTENT

This building type is intended to be built close to

the front and corner property lines allowing easy
access to passing pedestrians and transit riders, and
continues the street wall. A wide range of uses can be
accommcedated within this building type, including

craftsman uses. Figure 5.15 - Limited bay building example with one
vehicle bay and driveway, muitiple entrances, and different
The limited bay building type permits a maximum of entrance types

one vehicle bay per each facade division along each
street facade. Parking may be provided in the rear of
the lot or internal to the building,

B. REGULATIONS

Limited bay buildings are permitted in the NC form
district. Regulations for the limited bay building type
are defined in Figures 5.16 to 5.21 and Tables 5.6 to
58.

eee f Worksheet 8 Glossary 44 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Figure 5.16- Limited bay building street facade 7 Pcp Bulding Minimum

diagram shown with vehicle bay, storefront entry 8, Principat Building Maximum

(ype and parapet roofype. Noto scale 9. Accesory Stuctue Maxum
10. Ground Floor Height 12'-0" min. / 20’ oro

11. Upper Floorts) Height

“STREETFACADE{S “gy STE.= storefront; ARG = arcat SeadatS TPE eon PORE = porch

12 Principal Entrance Location
re 13, Principat Entrance Type(s)

25'-0" to 35’-0" of facade width
BS ‘=pa SS paepeeae i=pitched’F=fat seavestopece ee
Rear

Bee =<
a

Figure 5.17 - Limited bay building height and use diagram shown with
basement and rear building interior parking, starefrant entry type, and
parapet roof type. Not to scale.

dleof Bp worksheet (E} ctossary 45 CHAPTER 17,171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

[

E~ 22. ed eS -— Table 5.7 - Limited Bay Building Requirements Part 2: Secondary Frontage

i]
33
me :

mee

23. Side Yard Setback Minimum ee eee ae
25. Front Street Facade(s)
27. 8TZ Pedestrian Space Table
28. Occupation of Corner
29. Comer Build to Zone
30. Front Street Facade(s
32. Vehicle Access Type
33. Parking Location Parking Table
34. Loading/Service E :

PROJECTION TYPES: A=awning, B=balcony, C=canopy, R=roof overhang
39. Front Street

26. Side Street Facade

a | see 34 a

Front Street

Figure 5.18 - Limited bay building siting diagram shown with rear
vehicular access and the vehicle bay on the front street. Not to scale.

Interior Lot Comer Lot
-—

i

Front Street

Figure 5.19 - Building placement example diagram. Not to scale.

yas of Ss Worksheet Glossary 46 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
‘ontents —



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

L —_ 22. ee. _— Table 5.8 - Limited Bay Building Requirements Part 2: Tertiary Frontage

RAs
Figure 5.20 - Limited bay building siting diagram shown with rear
vehicular access and the vehicle bay on the front street. Not to scale. 2 weet =

Interior Lot Comer Lot on
—+=

ns a

Front Street

Figure 5.21 - Building placement example diagram. Not to scale.

Tableof (5) worksheet 8 casmaty 47 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

8. ROW BUILDING
A. INTENT

ertica

the street
nmhouses or

ses, or it could ncorporate live/work

nits, or individual units for multiple businesses,

where such uses are permitted

a be | d in the rear yard

and may be either an attached or detached garage

s shall be accessed from a single shared

driveway. For an attac

a minimum leve

e front facade to

Figure 5.23 - Mixed-use row building examples with different

oe oo roof and entrance types

Figure 5.22 - Row building examples. Pitched roof stoop
entrance example (top) and parapet roof stoop entrance
with visible basement (bottom)

Figure 5.24 - Residential row buildings with different roof
types around a shared open space

Table of
Contents

Woaahios 8 Cssly 48 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.9 - Row Building Requirements Part 1

3 : ; retail, service,
retail, service, office retail, service a

pti laa acl alana P ae
Principal Building Maximum testi
Not to scale, 8. Principal Building Maximu 4stories | 3 stories (+258)} 4 stories 4st 3 stories
9. Accessory Structure Maximum not | Ee neepermitted agi

0. Ground Floor Height 12-0" min. / 16'-0" max. woe

per F Bors) § Height 9-0" min. / 14-0" max.

esidential,

Mo <= =m:

Figure 5.26 - Row building height and use diagram shown oo. — _ for buildings aver 3 stories within 3-0" of top of
with basement and rear building interior parking, porch 19. Horizontal Facade Division anyv visible basement or ground floor

entry type, and pitched roof type. Not to scale. ;
tted Roof Type _PAPLE
not pernited

+258 permits up to 2 additional stories if they are stepped back a minimum of 30’-0’ from the front facade

Table of Ee Worksheet Glossary 49 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents ——


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

r all “Ty | aha ~

Table 5.10 - Row Building Requirements Part 2: Primary Frontage

between buildings between buildings
24, Rear Yard Setback Minimum
5. Front Street Facade(s)
27.872 Pedestrian Space __Table
28. Occupation of Comer
30. Front Street Facade(s}
34. Loading/Servic

[36 UpperFloors) Sie
137. Ground Floor ee

es

23. Side Yard Setback Minimum

~

26. Side Street Facade

iy, 12 B 2g 12
ILE:

‘\
Front Street bw

Figure 5.27 - Row building siting diagram shown with detached
garages and rear vehicular access. Not to scale.

Front Street
Figure 5.28 - Building placement example diagram. Not to scale. O. side Straet/near Stree

Table of Ss Worksheet Glossary 50 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.11 - Row Building Requirements Part 2: Secondary Frontage

22
0-0" per unit & 20’-0" between

buildings

Front Street
Figure 5.29 - Row building siting diagram shown with
attached garages and rear vehicular access. Not to scale. 9 Build to Zone

31 40% min.

3

3. Side Yard Setback Minimurr 0'-0" per unit & 15'-0" between buildings

FRONT STREET

Front Street
Figure 5.30 - Building placement example diagram. Not to
scale.

Table of =} sWoikictioes 8 Gary 51 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.12 - Row Building Requirements Part 2: Tertiary Frontage

aE

23. Side Yard Setback Minimum 0-0" per unit & 20'-0" between buildings
24. Rear Yard Setback Minimum | Oe
25. Front Street Facade(s)
a
27.BTZ Pedestrian Space _—_ Table not permitted
10-0°to 15-0"
36. Upper Floor(s) 5'-0" max.

PROJECTION TYPES: A=awning, B=balcony, C=canopy, R=roof overhang

12 | 12 12 12}

Front Street

Figure 5.31 - Row building siting diagram shown with
attached garages and rear vehicular access. Not to scale.

7 Front Street
Figure 5.32 - Building placement example diagram. Not to
scale.

Te f
able of f=}, worksheet

52 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents Glossary



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

9. YARD BUILDING
A. INTENT

2 residential OUIGING,

inding all sides

of the building are limited to the

The yard building can be utilized in newly

developing locations to create somewhat denser Figure 5.33 - Example of multiple yard buildings of different
t onal neighborhoods, or as a buffer to existing sizes

Figure 5.34 - Multiple 2-story yard buildings around a central

neighborhoods
open space

B. REGULATIONS

The yard building is only permitted in the RT form

district aiong

39

yard building type are defined in Figures 5.36 to 5

and Tables 5.13 and 5.14

Figure 5.35 - Multiple small yard buildings around a central
open space

Table of
Contents

Frere Glaszary 53 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Figure 5.36 - Yard building street facade 90" min. / 14’-0"max.
reautements 9-0" min, / 14-0" max

CREE ERCADE(S SA ANEOEBE STF storefront?@ARG= arcade STR= stoop POR = porch
7ROORAYPENMES Men ataeret = Sak PAS parapet, PlZpitched? F=fat aye :

aaa

Figure 5.37 - Yard building height and use
requirements

Table of x2]
a nae Worksheet Glossary 54 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17,171,050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.14 - Yard Building Requirements Part 2: Tertiary Frontage

22. Front Build to Zone 10-'0" to 15-0"
23. Side Yard Setback Minimum
24. Rear Yard Setback Minimum

FRONTAGE COVERAGE

25. Front Street Facade(s)

Building Building
2 P fae Footprint Footprint
26. Side Street Facade

CORNER LOT BUILDINGS

Corner Build to Zone 10-'0" to 15’-0"

Front Street

Figure 5.38 - Yard building siting 5

Front Street Facade(s
VEHICULAR FACILITIES

32. Vehicle Access Type 1 driveway per street frontage
c lot 29] 3 ear yard, side yard
34. Loading/Service Entry Location rear yard, side yard
f a a . =

TFRONTSTREET = STREET — sn

35. Ground Floor

os

=

Interior Lot

36. Upper Floor(s)

SIDE STREET/REAR STREET

39] Front Street

Figure 5.39 - Building placement example diagram. Not to scale.

40. Side Street/Rear Street

Table of (SS, worksheet Glossary 55) CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents A


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

10. CIVIC BUILDING
A. INTENT

The civic building type has the most flexibility in
building form and placement and is intended only for
civic and institutional types of uses. These buildings
are distinctive within the urban fabric that is created
by the other building types and could be designed

as iconic structures. In contrast to most of the other
building types, a minimum setback line is required
instead of a build to zone, though this setback is

required to be landscaped

; Figure 5.40 - Civic building example
Parking is limited to the rear in most cases

B. REGULATIONS

Civic buildings are permitted in the CC, BD, NC, and
TN form districts. The civic building type is only

permitted on primary frontages. Regulations for the
civic building type are defined in Figures 5.43 to 5.50
and Tables 5.15 to 5.18

Figure 5.42 - Civic building example with tower and street-
facing public space

Table of
Contents

56 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

oie a Table 5.15 - Civic Building Requirements Part 1

a aa!
a. Le, o a a

Figure 5.43 - Civic building street facade diagram 1. Upper Floor(s) Heig

shown with parapet roof type. Not to scale.
18. Vertical Facade Divisions not required

19 ke zonta! Facade Divisio: not required

+25B permits up to 2 additional stories if they are stepped back a minimum of 30'-0" from the front facade

street

Figure 5.44 - Civic building height and use diagram shown
with basement and rear building interior parking and
parapet roof type. Not to scale.

Table of & Worksheet Glossary 57 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

bi | ree Te = : Table 5.16 - Civic Building Requirements Part 2: Primary Frontage
Rear Property Line

22. Front Build to Zone(s)
10"

25, Front Street Facade's)
Peo
31, Side Street Facade EME i Be
34. re ce Eney. Location

PROJECTION TYPES: A=awning

26. Side Street Facade

30. Front Street Facade(s)

Front Street

Figure 5.45 - Civic building siting diagram shown
with side vehicular access and tower at entry. Not
to scale.

Interior Lot Comer Lot 29 a
pocarra —
g =

———

40. Side Street/Rear Street

Front Street

Figure 5.46 - Building placement example diagram. Not to scale.

Table of — =)
il = Worksheet Glossary 58 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.17 - Civic Building Requirements Part 2: Secondary Frontage

So fa
2. F es 5-0't0 15-0"
| a ee

26. Side Street Facade 50% min.

Front Street

Figure 5.47 - Civic building siting diagram shown VEHICULAR FACILITIES
with side vehicular access and tower at entry. Not 1 driveway per street frontage

to scale. ; rear yard

rear yard, side yard

PROJECTION TYPES: A=awning, B=balcony, C=canopy, R=roof overhang

39, Front Street

40. Side Street/Rear Street

Front Street

Figure 5.48 - Building placement example diagram. Not to scale.

Tableof 5), worksheet 2 Gicmsary 59 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

Table 5.18 - Civic Building Requirements Part 2: Tertiary Frontage

CL ———_

py, R=roof overhang

Front Street

Figure 5.49 - Civic building siting diagram shown
with side vehicular access and tower at entry. Not
to scale.

40. Side Street/Rear Street

Table of
Contents

60 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

11. ENTRANCE TYPES B. STOREFRONT ENTRANCE

ground story treatment designed to serve primarily

as the display area and primary entrance for retail or
service uses, See Figure 5.52

1. Intent. To guide the design of the ground story of
all buitdings to relate appropriately to pedestrians
on the street. Treatment of other portions of the
building facades is detailed in each building type
table.

1. Transparency. Minimum transparency is required
per building type.
2. Horizontal facade division feature shall define

2. Applicability. The entire ground story street-
the ground story facade from the upper story

facing facade(s) of atl buildings sha!l meet the

requirements of at least one of the permitted facades.
entrance types, unless otherwise stated, 3. Visible Basement. A visible basement is not
3. Measuring Transparency. Refer to the individual permitted.
building type tables for information on 4. Entrance. All entries shail be recessed from the
transparency. front facade closest to the street.
4, Visible Basements. Visible basements, permitted {a) Recess shall be a minimum of 3'-O"and a
by entrance type, are optional. The visible maximum of 5'-0" deep, as measured from the
basement shall be a maximum of one-half the front facade.
i , b) The entrance shall not be recessed into the
height of the tallest story, (b) . . Figure 5.53 - Arcade entrance example
lot further than the maximum Build to Zone
(BTZ) depth.

C. ARCADE ENTRANCE

An arcade recesses the entrance back into the ground

floor, creating a covered pedestrian area beneath the

second story. See Figure 5.53

1. Arcade, The arcade space is recessed into the

building a minimum of 8-0" and a maximum of
15'-0" from the front facade. The arcade space is
permitted to be recessed into the lot beyond the
maximum BTZ depth.

Figure 5.51 - Height measuring diagrams

Table of Worksheet Glossary 6t CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

2. Build to Zone (BTZ). For arcade entrances, the D. STOOP ENTRANCE
front facade is the implied plane created by the
front face of the arcade columns. The location of
this implied plane must be within the required
BIZ.

3. Transparency. Minimum facade transparency
applies to the recessed entry facade and is
required per building type.

A stoop is an unroofed, open, elevated platform. The
doors ona stoop entrance are accessed from the
stoop. See Figure 5.54
1. Transparency. Minimum transparency is required
per building type.
2. Horizontal facade division feature shall define
the ground story facade from the upper story

4. Horizontal facade division feature shall define facades.

the ground story facade from the upper story
facades.

a

3. Stoop Size. Stoops shall be a minimum of 3’-0
deep and 6-0" wide.

4, Elevation. Stoop elevation shall be located a
maximum of 2’-6" above the sidewalk without a
visible basement and a maximum of 4’-6"above

5. Recessed Facade Entrance Type. The entrance
type at the facade recessed into the arcade
shail be a storefront entrance type with one
modiftcation: the door location shall be flush with

he sidewalk with a visible b; t.
the adjacent windows and nat recessed. the sigewa'k with a visibie basemen

5. Visible Basement. A visible basernent is permitted
and shalt be separated from the ground story by

-_ an expression line.

7. Column Width. Columns shail be a minimum of (a) The facade of the visible basement must have Figure 5.55 - Porch entrance example

a minimum transparency of 15%.

6. Column Spacing. Columns shall be spaced from
10'-0"to 16'-0" on center.

1-6" and a maximum of 2'-6"in width.

8. Arcade Opening. The top of the opening shall be
lower than the interior arcade ceiling (not flush
with the ceiling) and may be arched or straight.

(b) A visible basement does not count as a

building story. 1. Transparency,

6. Entrance. All entries shall be located off a stoop. (a) Minimum transparency per building type is

9. Horizontal Facade Division. The ground story required.
facade shall be divided fram the upper story E. PORCH ENTRANCE (b) If enclosed, a minimum of 40% of the
facades with a horizontal architectural expression. Aporch isa ratsed, roofed platfrm that may or may enclosed porch shall be comprised of highly
10, Visible Basement. A visible basement Is not not be enclosed on alt sides. If enclosed, the space transparent, low reflectance windows.
permitted, shall not be climate controlled, See Figure 5.55 2. Porch Size. The porch shall be a minimum of 5'-0"
deep and 8'-0" wide.

Table of Worksheet 8 Glossary 62 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

3. Elevation. Porch elevation shall be located a 3. Measuring Height. See Figure 5.51 for information
maximum of 2'-6" above the sidewalk without a on measuring roof height. a
visible basement and a maximum of 4'-6" above 4. Other Roof Types. Requests for other building — = a
the sidewalk with a visible basement. caps not listed here as a specific roof type may L ck [ HH

4. Visible Basement. A visible basement is permitted be submitted to the ARC for evaluation, with the —L_iL| & “|
and shall be separated from the ground story by following requirements: Oe
an expression line. (a) The building is deemed as one having special Figure 5.56 - Parapet roof example
(a) The facade of the visible basement must have significance to Murray City or the overall area.

a minimum transparency of 15%. (b) The shape of the roof type shall be
(b) A visible basement does not count as a significantly different from those defined in (ARC) may allow additional height if a finding
building story. this chapter, e.g. dome, spire, vault. is made that the proposed height extension

5. Height. The porch structure shall not be tall 5. Solar Energy. Solar panels are permitted for all meets the intent of the code and is consistent
enough to obstruct the windows on the second roof types. with the architectural standards of the form
story. 6. Appearance. Roofs shall provide an attractive district.

6. Porch Roof. The roof of the porch may be flat or appearance considering that they may be {b) The parapet shall be high enough to screen
pitched. The roof may include a balcony that is viewed from above as a fifth facade. Equipment the roof and any roof appurtenances visible
accessed from the second story. projections and access towers must be set back a from the street.

7. Entrance. All right-of-way facing entries shall be minimum of 10'-0°from the edge of the roof. i) _ on ai facade eile

are in front of adjacent divisions shall return
located ona porch. B. PARAPET ROOF to the adjacent division parapets without any
12. ROOF TYPES A parapet is a low walt projecting above a building's gap between parapets.
roof along the perimeter of the building. It can be 2. Horizontal Expression Lines. An expression line
A. GENERAL PROVISIONS utilized with a flat or low pitched roof and also serves shall define the parapet from the upper stories of
The following provisions apply to all roof types: to limit the view of roof-top mechanical systems fram the building and shall also define the top of the

1. Intent. To guide the design of the caps of all the street. cap.
buildings. 1. Parapet Height. Height is measured from the 3. Occupiable Space. Outdoor (unenclosed) roof

2. Applicability. All buildings shall meet the outermost roof membrane or structure to the top deck/terrace occupiable space is permitted in
requirements of one of the roof types permitted of the parapet. this roof type. Such occupiable spaces must
by building type. (a) Minimum height is 42”and maximum height meet fire code egress standards. The parapet

is 6-0" The Architectural Review Committee wall may act as the perimeter barrier if it meets

rec
Table of (5) worksheet Glossary 63 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17,171.050 BUILDING TYPES

safety standards, otherwise an additional barrier front lat tine. See Figure 5.58
is required. 4. Mansard Roof. A double-pitched hipped roof
4, Rooftop Enclosures. Rooftop enclosures are where the lower pitch is a very steep angle and
Permitted in this roof type. Occupiable space the upper pitch is a very shallow angle. See
may not exceed 10% or 400 square feet of the Figure 5.59
roof footprint, whichever is larger. Enclosures 5. Transparency. The upper floor transparency
must maintain applicable roof setback. and blank wall limitation requirements apply
5. Green Roof. Green roof systerns are encouraged. to gable ends when the space within the roof
These systems retain/detain stormwater, help is occupiable. Gable ends are exempt from
to insulate a building's roof area, and reduce these transparency requirements if there is no
the urban heat island effect. These are shallow occupiable space within the roof.
substrate vegetation systems, not roof gardens 6. Roof height, measured from the ridge line down
for human use. to the top of the uppermost story.
C. PITCHED ROOF 7. Occupfable Space. Occupiable attic space, the

void within the roof trusses, may be used with

This roof type is sloped, or pitched. Slope is measured this roof type and does not count as one story.

Figure 5.58 - Parallel ridge line with gable example with the vertical roof height, or rise, divided by the
horizontal with, or run. D. FLAT ROOF

1, Pitch Measure. For non-mansard roofs, the pitch This roof type has a flat roof with or without
slope may not be less than 1:3 (rise/run) or more overhanging eaves. See Figure 5.59
than 1:1. For mansard roofs, the lower pitch angle
must be no less than 70° and no greater than 80°
and the upper pitch angle must be no less than
30° and no greater than 35°.

1. Configuration. Roofs with no visible slope are
acceptable. Eaves are required on all street facing
facades,

2. Eave Depth. Eave depth is measured from the
building facade to the outermost element of the
eave. Eaves shall have a minimum depth of 0-18"

2. Configurations. Hipped, gabled, and combination
of hips and gables with or without dormers are

mmitted, . A
permitted 3. Eave Thickness, Eave thickness is measured at

the outside edge of the eave, from the bottom of
the eave to the top of the eave. Minimum eave

3. Parallel Ridge Line. A gabled end or perpendicular
ridge line shall occur at least every 100-0" of roof
length when the ridge line runs parallel to the

Figure 5.59- Mansard roof example

Snack Worksheet Glossary 64 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE F8C



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

building type on which it is located.
5. Application. May be combined with all other roof
types.

6. Tower Cap. The tower may be capped by the
parapet, pitched, or flat roof types.

Figure 5.60 - Flat roof example with interrupting vertical wall 13. LIGHTING STANDARDS
onlefrside These standards apply to light fixtures that are located
Figure 5.61 - Tower example outside the building and which are not architectural
height is 0-8" lights that illuminate the building itself
4. Interrupting Vertical Walls are facade walls below 1. Light Source. Light sources shall be at least
the eave that extend upwards through and only allowed on permitted building types and on as efficient as LED and no greater than 3500K
above the top of the eave with no discernible corner lots. For lots with two corners, the tower is only (3000K in single-family zones) in conelated color
cap. permitted on the corner with the front street. A stair temperature (CCT). All outdoor light fixtures that
(a) No more than one-half of the front facade can _ tower used for emergency and roof access is exempt house lamps radiating more than 500 lumens
consist of an interrupting vertical wall. from this limit. See Figure 5.61 shall be full cutoff and oriented as intended per
{b) Vertical walls shall extend no more than 4’-0" 1. Quantity. All building types, with the exception manufacturing instructions, In no case shall the
above the top of the eave. of the civic building, are limited to one tower per total lumens emitted for a single site exceed
5. Occupiable Space. Occupied space shall not be building. 43,560 lumens per acre.
incorporated within this roof type. 2. Tower Height. Maximum height, measured from 2. Parking Lot Lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be
6. Green Roof, Green roof systems are very strongly the top of the lower parapet or eave to the top designed and constructed to comply with the
encouraged. These systems retair/detain of the tower, is limited to 1.5x the height of the following standards:
stormwater, help to insulate a building's roof area, upper floor of the building on which the tower (a) Pole Height/Design
and reduce the urban heat island effect. These is located. The tower is not included in the count (i) Luminaire mounting height is measured
are shallow substrate vegetation systems, not for maximum number of stories. from the parking lot or driveway surface
roof gardens for human use. 3. Tower Width. Maximum width along all facades and may range from ten 10'-0" to 25'-0%
is one-third the width of the front facade or 30'-0" based on review of site plan, proposed
E. TOWERS whichever is shorter. land uses, surrounding land uses, parking
A tower is a rectilinear or cylindrical, vertical element, 4. Occupiable Space. Towers may be occupied by area size, building massing, topography of
that must be used with other roof types; towers are the same uses allowed in upper stories of the

Tablet Worksheet Glossary 65 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

site, and impacts on adjacent properties. {d) Street lighting fixtures shall either be STANDARDS
(ii) Poles and fixtures shall be black, dark chosen from the city’s approved street light This section outlines the town center design
brown, or another neutral color approved | list or installed to match a theme set by standards that affect a building's appearance and
by the city. developments within the zone or area. quality. The intent is to improve the physical quality of
(iii) All attempts shall be made ta place the 4. Upgrading Pre-Existing Lighting buildings, enhance the pedestrian experience, protect
base of light poles within landscape areas. (a) An applicant must bring pre-existing lighting the character of the neighborhood, create visual
(iv) Light poles in parking areas shall not into compliance with this code in conjunction _ interest, and contribute to its sense of place.
exceed 25'-0" in height. Poles exceecin with an application for a building permit for
20'-0’ in height are aptoptiate only ior any alteration, remodel or expansion of any A. MATERIALS AND COLOR
parking areas exceeding two hundred structure on the site, or in conjunction with 1. Front Street-Facing Facade Materials. A minimum
stalls and not in close proximity to changes to the approved site plan. of 80% of each facade shall be constructed of

primary materials. For facades over 100 square

residential areas. 5. Lighting Plan Submission Requirements. A
3. Other Outdoor Lighting Standards lighting plan is required for all developments and feet, more than one material shall be used to

(a) Wall-mounted lighting fixtures shall not be must contain the following: meet the 80% requirement oo
located above eighteen 18'-0"in height unless (a) Lighting plans indicating the location on the (a) Permitted primary building materials include
being used as building accent lighting. Fixture premises, and the type of illumination devices, high quality, durable, natural materials, such
styles and finishes shall compliment the fixtures, lamps, supports, reflectors, installation as stone, brick; wood lap siding; fiber cement
building exterior. and electricat details; board lapped, eee 01 Pane! sing

(b) Lighting located along pedestrian pathways (b) Description of illuminating devices, fixtures, o hneeing othe: high att synthetic
cr in areas primarily dedicated to human lamps, supports, reflectors, and other devices vnaterals may be approved by the ARC during ’
activity shalt be bollard style lighting or that may include, but is not limited to, the site plan process
down-directed lighting not to exceed manufacturer catalog cuts and drawings, ; ; ; _—
12-0"in height. Pedestrian lighting shall be inctuding section where required; and 2. Side Street-Facing Facade Materials. Side street
coordinated through each project and shall Photometric data, such as that furnished by materials on front street-facing facades are
complement adjacent projects to the greatest manufacturers, or similar showing the angle limited to details and accents and include
extent practical of the cut off or light emission. gypsum reinforced fiber concrete for trim and

(c} In order to avoid light pollution, backlit (€) Apoint-by-point light plan to determine the ean for Beams, lintels tim,
awnings, up light spotlights, and flood lights adequacy of the lighting over the site. ; , ,
ate prohibited. (a) Exterior Insulation and Finishing Systems

14. ADDITIONAL DESIGN

Table of Worksheet Glossary 6 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.050 BUILDING TYPES

(EIFS) are permitted for trim only or on upper 2. Awnings. All awnings shall be canvas, metal, including no-step entries, ADA restrooms and
floor facades, up to 20% of total. glass, or wood. Plastic awnings are not permitted. accessible controls.
i ials i Awnin es and colors for each building face
3. Roof Materials. Acceptable roof materials include 9 typ ; ‘ ‘9 G. STATE STREET CORRIDOR,
300 pound or better, dimensional asphalt shall be coordinated. Awnings shall provide a BOULEVARD FORM DISTRICT
composite shingles, wood shingles and shakes, minimum of 8'-0° vertical clearance above ground _ J ;
. : ; \ 1. Additional design requirements for buildings
metal tiles or standing seam, slate, and ceramic Pane. . . .
; . . fronting State Street are required by Murray City.
tile.’“Engineered” wood or slate may be approved 3. Shutters. If installed, shutters, whether functional | . a.
” ; . ; The intent is to ensure that new buildings along
during the site plan process with an approved or not, shall be sized for the windows. If closed, an .
State Street reflect the historic context of existing
sample, Membrane roofs ate acceptable for flat the shutters shall not be too small for complete aoe .
: - . buildings along the corridor.
roofs with no surface visible from the street. coverage of the window. Shutters shall be wood 2M a eee ee
oct 7 . Materials: Building facades along State Street
4. Color. A building's dominant colors shall be or metal. “Engineered” wood may be approved Should egiman ia feced ith an wvihs
complementary to existing building stock, where during the site plan process. P y

historically typical finish and color.

spplicable C. DRIVE-THROUGH STRUCTURES 3. Windows & Doors: Buildings should use a
5. Appropriate Grade of Materials. Commercial

quality doors, windows, and hardware shall be
used on all building types with the exception of

Drive-through structures are not permitted in any historically typical window and door type, with
form district or with any building type. windows recessed into the facade to create
historically appropriate window ledge depth.

the row building type. D. METERS AND EQUIPMENT
a ads . LACEMENT 4. Additional requirements: Traditional elements
6. Prohibited Materials List (subject to Utah State P . . . :
: provide horizontal and vertical modulation. For
regulations): Equipment shall be screened from view and not example:
(a) Vinyl or aluminum siding, highly reflective located on a public frontage.

. . . (a) Pronounced entries,
metal, mirrored windows, plain cement block.

E. WASTE CONTAINERS (b) Architectural banding,

(b) Stucco is an allowable facade material only ; ; ;

when used on facades that do not face public Waste containers shall be located out of public view (c} Primary verticals (windows),

. - A and screened with landscaping and/or a structure (d) Strong roof termination (cornice)
streets, adjacent residential areas, or open ° : ; "
space. that is compatible with the theme of the adjacent 5. Architecturat details: Additional details
w TERS building. appropriate to historic architecture are
B. WINDOWS, AWNINGS, AND SHUT - F. RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT encouraged including awnings, light fixtures,
1. Windows. Transparency requirements vary REQUIREMENTS blade signage, public art, etc.

by building type and story. See building
requirements tables Residential rentat developments shall include:

1. Visitability features far at least 10% of units,

Table of Worksheet Glossary 67 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 2. All open space types shall provide public access
from a vehicular and/or pedestrian right-of-way.
A. INTENT
3. Pocket park, town square, and park open spaces
To provide public open space as an amenity that shall be platted as a parcel or group of parcels

promotes physical and environmental health within or, with permission from the city, may be located | 1.Pocket Park | Peed P fees P|
the community and to provide each household with within a right-of-way | 2.Town Square | P [OP] N foe N |

access to a variety of active and passive open space 4. Unless prohibited, open space types may 3. BTZ Pedestrian
; . ce
types.

incorporate fencing provided that the following Ee oe Ea

B. APPLICABILITY requirements are met: P= Permitted | N = Not Permitted
(a) Fencing shall be a maximum height of

Table 6.1 - Open Space Types by Form District

Open space types are permitted, not permitted, or V = Requirements Vary by Building and Frontage Type

".Q" unl th fi h
limited according to each form district. See Table 6.1 So a epee By ie yr a

circumstances as proximity to railroad right-

ments a . 5. Ownership of all public open space types may be
These open space requirements do not apply to of-way or use around swimming pools, ball = , p = pace ty : i-
j / either pubiic or private. All open spaces shall be
private open spaces such as yards and resident only fields, ball courts, and off-leash dog areas . ° : 4 P : p 7
open spaces in a development. They do apply to pudiicly accessible, regardiess of ownership.

" ; ‘i a ¥ ; ied (b) Fence opacity shall be no greater than 60%

public open spaces regardless of public or private 6. Parking shall not be required for an open space
(c) Chain-link fencing is not permitted, with the

ownership. A pedestrian street is a type of open space type, unless a use other than open space is

exception of dedicated sports field or court determined by the city.

that is defined in Chapter 4.0 Street Types
fencing as approved by the city é ‘ F
ti to existing or pl
Cc. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (d) 7. Continuity of connections to exis g OF pianne

if a fence is built along a street front,
ga street iro trails or open space types shall be made when

All public open spaces shall meet the following Ea eae ee the open space abuts key trail corridors or
general requirements provided on each individual street front with a another open space type
1. All public open spaces within the Murray City minimum spacing of one opening every 100’
Center Form Based Code (FBC) boundary shail 0" or a minimum of one opening on street D. DEFINITION OF REQUIREMENTS
comply with one of the open space types as fronts that are less than 100-0" The meaning and usage of terminology is not
defined in this chapter. universal. Some of the terms in this FBC are used

Table of — [a-z)
» ool S Workshest Cleat 68 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

need vehicular access along the rear or side
property line(s).

differently in other contexts. The definitions provided
in this FBC are specific to how they are used within

the FBC. These definitions are not subject to multiple 1. IMPROVEMENTS

interpretations and shail not be altered
Improvements of the following types may be
The following further explains or defines the

: permitted in any open space:
requirements for each open space type. Refer to
Tables 6.2 to 6.5 for the specific requirements of each
open space type.

1. Dimensions

1. Sports fields are fields or courts that are designed

for one ot mote specific sports,

(a) Sports fields areas are limited in size,

expressed as a maximum percentage of the

(a) The minimum and maximum areas of all open
total park area.

space types is measured within the lot lines of
(b) Paved sports courts do not count toward

the property.
; ; pavement requirements.
(b) The minimum dimension requirement is a Figure 6.1 - Minimum dimension measurement examples :
way to make sure that size of an open space with the longest distance shown in blue and the minimum 2. Playgrounds are defined areas with play
dimension shown in red structures and equipment, such as slides, swings,

is Not too small for its particular open space

type. The miriimumdimension for ail open and climbing structures, typically for children

under 12 years old.

space types is derived from overlaying the (a) The percentage of the total perimeter that

open space plan with two straight lines that must be adjacent to a public right-of-way. 3. Structures

intersect at right angles and whose endpoints (b) The minimum number of and/or spacing (a) Fully enclosed inhabitable structures are
are at the outer property lines. The first line between access points into the open space. permanent structures with a roof and walls

ts placed at the fonigest cistarice sense. thie 3. Adjacent lots are those which are directly with closeable doors that fully enclose the

— space. They are intended for uses such as,
open space. The second line crosses the first adjacent to and directly across the street from an d

F ight ang th t . but not limited to, park offices, maintenance
line at a right angle at the place on the first open space: . P:

line that follows the longest distance in the sheds, community centers, and rest rooms.

(a) The adjacent form district requirement : ;
direction perpendicular to the first line. The (b) Open-air inhabitable structures are
_ determines which open space type(s) may
minimum dimension” is the shorter of these 7 permanent structures with a roof or overhead
7 be located adjacent to lots of the given form : : ;
two lines. See Figure 6.1 covering and partially or fully open sides.
district. The open space type is permitted to

Examples include, but are not limited to,
be adjacent to the listed form district(s). ig

2. The minimum access requirement ensures access

and visibility for the open space. It is described in gazebos, pavilions, pergolas, and shade
(b) The preferred orientation of adjacent lots is :

two ways: structures.
toward the open space. Any such lots would

Tableot £5) worksheet exianiry 69 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
‘ontents =


17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

{c) Landscape structures are permanent of lighting differs with each open space type and along streets, Large areas that need to be
uninhabitable structures that are used for design. The faltowing principles apply to open lit, such as squares and sports fields, may
aesthetic purposes or active uses that are not space lighting: use taller light poles for wider coverage.

a sports field/court or playground. Examples (a) Light Source. Light sources shall be at least as 6. Seating is an important component of all
include, but are not limited to, water features, efficient as LED and no greater than 3500K, open spaces, it encourages people to stop and
monuments, sculptures, splash pads, climbing 3000K in residential areas, in correlated color spend time in the open space rather than just
walls, and skate parks. temperature (CCT). All outdoor light fixtures pass through, and allows people with different
4. The pavement requirements are expressed as that house lamps radiating more than 500 mobility and physica! needs to enjoy the open
percentages of the total area of the open space, lumens shall be full cutoff and oriented as space. Each open space type requires seating

as measured within the lot boundaries. Paved intended per manufacturing instructions. In but the amount and type of seating differs with

areas may use impervious and/or semi-pervious no case shall the total lumens emitted for a each open space type and design. The following

paving materials. Three percentages are given: single site exceed 43,560 lumens per acre. principles apply to open space seating:

(a) The minimum total area is the smallest (i) Wall-mounted lighting fixtures shall {i) Seat counts for manufactured seat
permitted paved area and includes the sum not be located above 18'-0” in height furniture shall be counted according to the
of both impervious and semi-pervious paved unless being used as building accent manufacturer's specifications. For built-on-
areas, lighting. Fixture styles and finishes shall site seating, such as seat walls, steps, and

(b) The maximum total area is the largest compliment the building exterior. benches, each 2-0" of linear seating shall
permitted paved area and includes the sum (ii) Lighting located along pedestrian be considered one seat.
of both impervious and semi-pervious paved pathways or in areas primarily dedicated 7. Landscaping refers to areas that are planted with
areas. to human activity shall be bollard style live plants. These areas are categorized into lawns

(c} The maximum impervious pavement area is lighting or down-directed lighting not to (expanses of turf grass) and planted areas (plants
the largest area permitted to be paved with exceed 12-0" in height. Pedestrian lighting that are not turf grass). Trees can be planted in
impervious paving materials, shall be coordinated through each project both lawns and planted areas. Landscape designs

and shall complement adjacent projects to will vary widely between open space types and

(d) Paved sports courts are not counted in the

pavement requirement percentages. the greatest extent practical. are based on specific site characteristics and
5. Lighting makes open spaces useful after sunset (iii) Light poles for pedestrian areas shall be design goals.
and improves night-time safety. Each open space shorter pedestrian scale light poles, not 8. Bicycle facilities located in open spaces are an
type requires lighting but the amount and type the taller vehicular scate poles. Hybrid important part of the active transportation
poles, with both an upper vehicular fixture network. The amount and type of bicycle facilities

and lower pedestrian fixture, are permitted

Table of | (& worksheet 8 Glossary 70 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

a



17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

differs with open space type and design. The than being directed into a storm drain. They can also
following principles apply to open space bicycle be an ornamental landscape element and create
facilities: unique habitats. Green roofs reduce and/or delay the
(a) Bicycle rack locations shall be convenient amount of runoff that goes into the storm drain from
to rights-of-way or other connections to the roof structures, provide thermal insulation to the roof,
active transportation network, be visible in and reduce the urban heat island effect.
the daytime and wellit at night in order to All stormwater management structures and practices
deter bike theft. shall meet the requirements in the city’s Public Works
(b) Each bicycle rack shall have an appropriate Department standards.

amount of clear space around it so that
loading and unloading a bicycle from the rack
shall not impede any adjacent pedestrian
walkway.

{c) Bicycle racks with permanent coverings are
encouraged.

E. STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
STRUCTURES IN OPEN SPACES

Stormwater management structures, such as storage
and retention facilities, may be integrated into

public open spaces and used to meet stormwater
requirements for surrounding lots. Stormwater
features in open spaces may be designed as formal

or natural amenities with additional uses other than
stormwater management, such as an amphitheater,
sports field, or a pond or pool as part of the landscape
design.

Bioswales and green roofs are very strongly
encouraged. Bioswales provide places where
rainwater can percolate directly into the soil rather

Tableof 6) worksheet Glossary 74 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
‘ontents —|


17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

2. POCKET PARK
A. INTENT

Pocket parks may be appropriate in certain areas

Table 6.2 - Pocket Park Requirements

1 pedestrian entry to right-of-way
4. Minimum Access is ‘i ? gnt-ol-wa)

20'-0" of frontage
5. Adjacent Form District(s)

6. Adjacent Lot Lines side, rear

7. Permitted Sports Fields/Courts not per

8 Playground

9 Parnitiee SHUEKIRES open-air inhabitable, water feature,

monument, sculpture, splash pad

ameter

Pavement Area

50% min. live plant coverage in planted
15. Landscaping od

areas at maturity (Trees not included)

17. Bicycle Facilities 1 rack / 500 sq. ft

of the district. These parks may be very narrow or
otherwise constrained in ways that would make a

more traditional larger park unfeasible.

B. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Pocket parks should be strategically located, if

possible. Pocket parks are a valuable temporary use

on lots that are undeveloped

Regulations for the pocket park open space type are
defined in Table 6.2.

ak
Figure 6.2 - Pocket park example

72 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Table of =
Contents = Worksheet



17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

3. TOWN SQUARE
A. INTENT

A high quality town square space can become the

Table 6.3 - Town Square Requirements

50% of perimeter open to street frontage

‘heart’ of a community, when located effectively and
with the right amount of attention given to how the
space is used and designed. Town squares do not

need to be large in size, but should be well located 5, Adjacent Fo oe ns PAM
in the most highly concentrated and pedestrian-

oriented parts of the community.

B. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Town squares should be well-designed, and located mum open-air inhabitable, water feature
‘ M 9. Permitted structures
in visible, and easily accessed places. Town squares monument, sculpture, kiosk

Permitted Sports Fie ds, /Courts

shail be fronted by public streets or primary building
facades, and surrounded by activity on all sides. Town
squares may not be located behind parking lots.

j ‘or th WN SQuUare C n Cc y re a Ere .
Regulations for the town square open space type are 3. Lightin required, 16'-0" max. fixture height
defined in Table 6.3

50% min. live lh Coverage n pianted
ncluded)

Trees not

1 rack / 500 sq. ft

Figure 6.3 - Public square example

Table of = Worksheet 8 Glossary 73 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

4. BTZ PEDESTRIAN SPACE
A. INTENT

Pedestrian space within the build to zone (BTZ) is

Table 6.4 - BTZ Pedestrian Space Requirements

full width of building facade

n Y | i, = a,
and building facade. These small open spaces provide
distinction to individual buildings, spatial diversity 6. Building Types

within building facades, and functional outdoor

an extension of the public pedestrian space of the

streetscape and is an effective way to improve the

appearance, function, and experience of the street

per building type part 2 tables

per building type part 2 tables

space for amenities and activities like cafes, seating, monument, sculpture, water feature, shade structure, stoop or porch (per

entrance type)

7. Permitted Structures

10. Amenity

gathering, events, and displays.

per pedestrian entrance

required, 1

Paving required, 1 per vehicular entrance

paving between walkways/driveways as needed for amenities/activities

permitted: bollard lights, landscaping lights, pole lights with 16'-0" max. pole
fixture height

planted areas to be 0% min. to 40% max. of net BTZ area
planted areas to be 0% min. to 80% max. of net BTZ area
all planted areas to be enclosed by 6" tall concrete curbing

16. Plant Coverage planted areas to be 50% min. live plant coverage at maturity (excluding trees)
very narrow trees are permitted only with ARC approva

11. Lighting

Landscaping

BTZ Pedestrian Sidewalk Park Strip
Space (shown as
furnishings zone)

Figure 6.4 - BTZ pedestrian space example

Table of
Contents

Worksheet 74 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

B. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS sntesior Lot comer tot we

1. By definition, BTZ pedestrian spaces are located PAT TT ee Oe
on private property and are part of a project's site j
pian and design drawings.

2. Where a building facade is located directly on
the right-of-way property line there is no BTZ
pedestrian space.

3. BTZ pedestrian space is required, permitted, or
not permitted according to building and frontage

type as described in the building type part 2

tables in Chapter 5.0
Figure 6.5 - BTZ shown as diagonal hatch pattern. BTZ pedestrian space

(a) Depth is measured from the right-of-way shown in yellow. Not to scale.
property line to the building facade, along
a line perpendicular to the right-of-way
property line.

(b) Net BTZ area is the total BTZ area (per street
facade) minus the area for required walkway
and driveway pavement.

(c) Must be open to the street and shall only be
enclosed by the primary building facade.

(i) Primary building facade projections and
encroachments requirements apply.

(ii) Shall not be enclosed with any fencing,
walls, hedges, or other vertical barrier.

(d) Shall be open to public use.

Regulations for the BTZ pedestrian space open space
type are defined in Table 6.4

Table of} worksheet Glossary 75 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.060 OPEN SPACE

5. PARK
A. INTENT

Park space is important to every community but it

Table 6.5 - Park Requirements

6. Adjacent Lot Lines front, side, rear

7. Permitted Sports Fields/Courts basketball, tennis, volleyball, picklebal

8 Playground

open-air inhabitable, water feature
monument, sculpture, splash pad

11, Maximum Tota! Area 25%

12. Maximum Impervious .
15%
Pavement Area
13. Lighting required, 16'-0" max. fixture height

. 50% min, live plant coverage
Toi Landscaping in planted areas

must be located and designed in order to be used
by a variety of users at all times of the day and all
days of the week. Park space should be oriented to

pedestrian networks including convenient access to
trail networks.

B. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Parks should be designed to be sensitive to

community limitations on water usage and

9. Permitted Structures

maintenance resources. Parks should be appropriately
scaled to focus on neighborhood usage and be open

to and welcome all users. Paving

Parks are only permitted to be constructed by the city

for county or public use

Requirements for the park open space type are
defined in Table 6.5.

{ ; 1 ee 17. Bicycle Facilities 1 rack / 600 sq. ft
if ¥/] —~
if

Faw iy

Figure 6.6 - Park example

Tableof = Worksheet

4-2) 76 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents A— Glossary



17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

provements include new driveways, new

ficant

new medians nev sdina facilities

1. To provide for healthy, long-lived street trees omplete reorganization of the parking and

treet iffer between (b) A

pedestrian and vehicular travel lanes structure that results in a

the compatit

Figure 7.1 - Example of waterwise landscape with good
plant variety and plant coverage

2. Landscape buffers are required according to
the urban heat island effect (a) Shared Driveways. Buffers shall not be

B. APPLICABILITY

ng, trees, and buffers shall be installed as ts

1. General Compliance. Applic

on of this sectior driveways or other points of access to a lot

to hall occur with the fo

existina uses s }
ex ng USE }

3. These provisions do not apply to temporary uses

developments

niess determined otherwise by the Cit

Figure 7.2 - Low plantings provide adequate visibility at
intersections

Table of

L. Worksheet 8 Glossary 77 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents -



17,171,070 LANDSCAPING

2. LANDSCAPING INSTALLATION 2. Installation. Landscaping shall be fully 4. Compost, mulch, and organic matter may be
installed prior to the issuance of a certificate of utilized within the soil mix to reduce the need for

A. INTENT completeness. fertilizers and increase water retention.

The following provisions aid in ensuring that all (a) If seasonal conditions preclude the complete 5. Establishment. All installed plant material shall

required landscaping is installed and maintained installation, a cash escrow or irrevocable be fully maintained until established, including

properly. letter of credit, equal to the installation costs watering, fertilization, and replacement as

B. APPLICABILITY as estimated by a qualified professional is necessary.

required. Bond calculations should be specific

enough to Include each plant species rather D. GROUND PLANE VEGETATION

These provisions apply to landscape installation as

required by this section. than a lump sum per given area. All unpaved areas shall be covered by planting beds.
C. GENERAL INSTALLATION (b) Complete installation is required within nine 1. Planting Beds
REQUIREMENTS months of the issuance of the temporary (a) Planting beds may include shrubs, ornamental
certificate of completeness or occupancy grasses, ground cover, vines, annuals, or

The installation.of landscaping shall adhere to the

following standards. permit or the cash escrow or letter of credit perennials.

1. National Standards. Best management practices may be forfeited. No temporary certificate of (b) Planting beds shall be planted such that a
and procedures according to the nationally completeness or occupancy shail be issued. minimum of 50% their area is cavered by live
accepted standards shall be practiced. 3. Condition of Landscape Materia!s. The plant material, at plant maturity. Tree canopies
fa) Installation. All landscaping and trees shall be landscaping materials used shall be: are not included in coverage calculations.

installed in conformance with the practices (a) Healthy and hardy with a good root system. (<) Nonliving materials, such as colored gravel or

and procedures established by the most (b) Chosen for its form, texture, color, fruit, pattern organic mulch, are permitted to be visible in

recent edition of the American Standard for of growth, and suitability to local conditions. no more than 50% of a bed area. Mulch depth

Nursery Stock (ANSI 260.1) as published by (c) Tolerant of the natural and man-made should be a minimum of 3.

the American Association of Nurserymen. environment, including tolerant of drought, (d) Annual beds must be maintained seasonally
(b) Maintenance and Protection. All tandscaping wind, salt, and pollution. and replanted as necessary.

and trees shall be maintained according to {d) Appropriate for the conditions of the site, {e) Planting beds should be designed and

the most recent edition of the American including slope, water table, and soil type. maintained to provide adequate visibility.

National Standards Institute, including its (e) Plants that will not cause a nuisance or have (i) Planting plans around known signage

provisions on pruning, fertilizing, support negative impacts an an adjacent property. locations shall select ow growing plants

systems, lighting protection, and safety. (f) Species native or naturalized to the Wasatch to provide long term sign visibility with

Front, whenever possible, minimal maintenance.

Table of Worksheet [3H Glossary 78 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

—



17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

(ii) Planting beds near pedestrian and gravels (made of crushed stone), clay loam, and 4. The irrigation system shall not spray or irrigate
vehicular intersections should be designed a hydrogel stabilizing agent to keep the mixture impervious surfaces, including sidewalks,

to maintain safe sight lines for pedestrians from separating. tt provides an integrated, root driveways, streets, and parking and loading areas.

; and drivers. penetrable, high strength pavement system that 5. All systems shall be equipped with a back-flow

2. Turf grass is not permitted in any of the three shifts design away from individual tree pits. prevention device.

landscape zones described in this chapter. 5. Energy conservation can be enhanced by plant 6. All mechanical systems including contrallers and

E. TREE INSTALLATIONS placement. Plantings shall be designed to back-flow prevention devices shall be properly

reduce the energy consumption needs of the screened from public view.

The installation of trees sha!l meet the following development. 7. Itrigation systems shall be smart and weather-
requirements: (a) Deciduous trees should be placed on the based instead of clock-based. A WaterSense label
1. Tree Measurement. The caliper of new trees shall south and west stdes of buildings to provide is required per the city’s Waterwise Landscaping

be measured at 0-6" above the mean grade of shade from the summer sun and allow heat Ordinance.

the tree's trunk for 0'-4” caliper or less, and 1'-0" from the winter sun to reach the buildings.

above the mean grade of the tree's trunk for (b) Evergreen trees and other evergreen plants G. MAINTENANCE OF LANDSCAPE

calipers above 0'-4", and noted as caliper inches should be concentrated on the north side All landscaping shal! be maintained in good

throughout this ordinance. of buildings to dissipate the effect of winter Condition at all times to ensure a healthy and orderly
2. Tree Maintenance. Tree trimming, fertilization, winds. appearance.

and other similar work shall be performed by 1. All required landscaping shall be maintained to

or under the management of an ISA certified F. IRRIGATION SYSTEMS adhere to all requirements of this ordinance.

arborist. Permanent irrigation, beyond establishment, is 2. Unhealthy plants shall be replaced with healthy,
3. Tree Size. All trees to be installed to meet the required and shall adhere to the following standards. live plants by the end of the next applicable

requirements of this section shalt be a minimum 1. Allirrigation systems shall be designed to growing season. This includes all plant material

of 0'-2" caliper at the time of installation. minimize the use of water. that shows dead branches over a minimum of
4. Structural Soil. When a tree is to be planted 2. Non-tesidential fandscape irrigation shall have an 25% of the normal branching pattern.

within a park strip or paved area such as a automatic clock-activated permanent controller. 3. The owner is responsible for the maintenance,

plaza (and the pavement is not yet installed), Smart controllers with wireless access are repair, and replacement of all landscaping,

structural soil is required underneath the encouraged. screening, and curbing required herein.

adjacent pavement. Structural soil is a medium 3. The irrigation system shall provide sufficient 4, Maintenance shall preserve at least the same

that can be compacted to pavement design and coverage to all landscaped areas. quantity, quality, and screening effectiveness as

installation requirements while still permitting
root growth. It is a mixture of gap-graded

initially installed.

re
Tableot EL worksheet [ESP ciossary 79 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

er barriers shall be

5. Fences, walls, and
maintained in good repair and free of rust, flaking
paint, graffiti, and broken or damaged parts

6. Tree topping is permitted if required for overhead
utilities clearance. It is not permitted as a personal
preference. When necessary, crown reduction
thinning or pruning is permitted

7. All landscaped areas r by this may

inspected by the city

Figure 7.3 - Using the same tree species on both sides of the
street creates a stronger streetscape identity and experience

Table of
Contents

(5 Worksheet 8 Glossary 80 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

3. STREET TREES

A. INTENT a”
r--$¢
To line all streets with a consistent and appropriate ™, ‘ :
planting of trees to establish tree canopy for t . oe
environmental benefit and a sense of identity for eact H =
street { ;

1 :
; oom

B. APPLICABILITY

The requirements herein apply to the reconstruction
q

it
ee:

Seee

and new construction, of all streets. Regulations for
street trees are defined in Figure 7.4 and Table 7.1

ane
eeeeserereee®

C. MINIMUM STREET TREE
REQUIREMENTS
All street trees shall meet the requirements set forth in

the Murray City Code of Ordinances

Table 7.1 - Street Tree Species

COMMON NAME STREET TREES

Common Hackberry

JapaneseTree Lilac (MM Common Hackberry 1 BH

; MME Eastern Redbud Northern Acclaim | z
Japanese Tree Lilac yringa reticulat GEM Wireless Zelkova 5 ? a4

Northern A Socantion @+++) Overhead Utilities ' ; FE

Honeylocust Northern Acclaim MM Green Vase Zelkova | Saovereetarererrrerrrrredt

Wireless Zekkova Zelkova serrata Wireless Figure 7.4 - Street trees species plan \ ¥ ¥
a

Table of = wWoitetieat 1S) Glossary 81 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

4. LANDSCAPE AREAS Table 7.2 - Parking Lot Frontage Buffer
A. INTENT Requirements ss

hi mm ti ly
To increase the compatibility of adjacent uses and

1ineston required where a parking lot abuts a
minimize the adverse impacts created by adjoining ial street frontage
or neighboring uses. This is accomplished by defining

three different types of landscape areas. These areas A

Parking Area

help to screen, separate, and define the edges of a lot required 30'-0" on center where
there is efficient space for a buffer
tree to be planted at the halfway
The three landscape areas are EOITt Detwenn Steet bes: On
street side of fence when a fence is
1. Parking Lot Frontage Buffers present

and the interior of surface parking lots

2. Parking Lot interior Landscape £ Geuind Diana | Duffers are required to be planted
4. Ground Plane : i
with live plants with at least 50%
coverage at maturity

B. PARKING LOT FRONTAGE BUFFERS

1. INTENT 2'-0" offset from parking lot outer
6. Location wns .

1 pedestrian opening allowed per
to reduce the visual impact of vehicular areas on street frontage, 4'-0" minimum

Vegetation

3. Side and Rear Landscape Buffers

Landscaped buffers around parking lots are designed

Front Street
public streets and adjacent properties width

Figure 7.5 - Parking lot frontage buffer diagram. Not to scale.
2. APPLICABILITY
Applies to properties in all form districts where a
parking lot abuts a street frontage
Regulations for the parking lot frontage buffer
landscape area type are defined in Figure 7.5 and
Table 7.2

Contents

Table of = Worksheet 8 Glossary 82 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

C. PARKING LOT INTERIOR LANDSCAPE
1. INTENT 1A

Table 7.3 - Parking Lot Interior Landscape Requirements

Landscaped areas within parking lots are designed sland at the ends of each row/park

to provide shade, reduce stormwater runoff, and AcIUGING parking lot corners

AND 1 island every ten stalls in each row/bay,

improve the appearance of parking lots

2. APPLICABILITY

All surface parking lots with fourteen or more parking ral sollarea; 10%0"r
spaces shall provide landscaping in accordance with ‘ ted fort

the provisions of this section narrower than 15'-0" wi aR

Regulations for the parking lot interior landscape area : ~—

type are defined in Figure 7.6 and Table 7.3 slands aie fequied to be pla

t least 50% coverage at rr

ound Plane Vegetation

a og yg ge ie ors

Front Street

Figure 7.6 - Parking lot interior landscaping diagram. Not to scale.

Table of & Worksheet 8 Glossary 83 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.070 LANDSCAPING

D. SIDE AND REAR LANDSCAPE BUFFERS
1. INTENT 5

4 BeSGRE — along side and rear lot lines (not along street frontages
a f across driveways)

.
adjacent developments and provide softening and
screening between properties .
| tree /30-0 ras and rear lot lines

2. APPLICABILITY A continuous double row of shrubs planted in the space

Table 7.4 - Side & Rear Landscape Buffer Requirements

Landscaping along the rear and sides of a lot are
designed to minimize negative impacts between

between trees. Individual shrubs to have a minimum mature
width of 3-0" and minimum mature height of 4'-0" planted at no
developments within the district more than 3'-0" on center

These landscape buffers are required in all 4. Hedge Option*

Approved shared parking lots are exempt from side An opaque fence with a minimum height of 6'-0" to be installed
adjacent to the lot line. The buffer on the interior side of the
fence is required

parking lot straddles a side or rear lot line. coverage at maturity.

and rear landscape buffer requirements when the 5. Fence Option*

Regulations for the side and rear landscape buffer "Each side and rear buffer must use either the hedge or fence option
landscape area type are defined in Figure 7.7 and
Table 7.4

Interior Lot Comer Lot

Figure 7.7 - Side and rear landscape buffer diagram. Not to scale.

Front Street

bse of = Worksheet Glossary 84 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
ontents A



17.171.080 PARKING

17.171.080 PARKING

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (c) Change in use requiring a change in the addressed in Chapter 3.0, the city is authorized
amount of parking to apply off-street parking standards specified
A. INTENT 2. Damage or Destruction. When a use that has for the use deemed most similar to the proposed
These provisions are established to accomplish the been damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, use. In instances where an equivalent may not
following explosion, or other cause is reestablished, any be clearly determined, the city may require
1. Ensure an appropriate level of vehicle parking associated off-street parking spaces or loading the applicant to submit 2 parking study or
loading, and storage to support a variety of uses facilities must be reestablished based on the other evidence that will help determine the
2. Provide appropriate site design standards to requirements of this chapter appropriate requirements
mitigate the impacts of parking lots on adjacent 3. Site Plan Approval. Parking quantities and parking 3. EV Charging Stations. Charging facilities, or space
uses and form districts design and layout shall be approved through the to accommodate future charging facilities, shall

3. Provide specifications for vehicular site access site plan approval process. be included in multi-family, commercial, and

4. Landscaping Requirements. Side and rear mixed use developments, per city requirements

B. APPLICABILITY ; — so

landscape buffers (see Cnapter 70) are required ~——_B, REQUIRED VEHICULAR AND BICYCLE
This chapter shall apply to all new development in the side and rear parking setbacks PARKING
and changes in use or intensity of use for existing 1. Parking requirements are organized by use and
development, in any form district 2. PARKING REQUIREMENTS i: _

form district
1. Compliance with these required standards

A. GENERAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS (a) Parking requirements are provided by
outlined shall be triggered by the following
aa onan 1. Accessible Parking. Parking facilities accessible for use sub-category and form district; these
(a) Devel ii saver denil persons with disabilities shall be in compliance numbers are applicable for all of the uses
a) Development of all new parking facilities, ee
anna pang with, or better than, the standards detailed in the within each sub-category

loading facilities, and driveways

state Accessibility Code, including quantity, size, 2. The parking requirement columns in Table 8.3
(b) Improvements to existing parking facilities, location, and accessibility indicate maximum or minimum required off-
loading facilities, and driveways, including 2. Approved Unlisted Uses. Upon receiving a site street parking ratios, which may be subject to
sila: nabeat alone selina ivnlesimateaael plan approval, occupancy certificate, or other credits and other reductions, as detailed in this
of curbs, walkways, fencing, or landscape ae ne section

installation

Table of = Worksheet Glossary 85 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents :



17.171.080 PARKING

a | 3. Bicycle parking facilities shall be a bike rack i} Dwelling/Rooming Unit. Parking standards
Table 8.1 - Parking Site Requirements cys P 9 ; @ . 9 . 9 9
——————— ——— or bike locker that is firmly affixed to a wall, for residential uses shall be computed
SETBAGK (surface lot) building, sidewalk, or other permanent structure. using dwelling unit, rooming unit, or room
The number of bicycle parking spaces shall be as the unit of measure, unless otherwise
2 Side Street/Rear Street | s:ormin | equal to the bicycle capacity for which the bike stated.
rarer O”~“‘—*~*é*S*ti‘ OM. rack or bike tocker is designed. The immediate (ii) Net Leasable Floor Area. Unless otherwise
— ————S—— area surrounding bicycle parking spaces shall i
[PARKING] DRIVEWAY Gurface love structured) il ; g Dicycle pi g pe expressly stated, parking standards for
be sufficiently clear to allow convenient and non-tesidential uses shall be computed
fi
5 Two-Way 35-0" max safe access to cyclists. Table 82 indicates the using net leasable floor Area. This means
6, Right tum in/Right turn out minimum bicycle parking ratio for each given gross floor area less the area used for
[onewey terme | common hallway, mechanical and
4. Computation. Off-street parking spaces shall be storage areas, and rest rooms.
calculated using the following information: (iii) Occupancy- or Capacity-Based
oe Distance from Corner 35-0" min. (a) Area Measurements. The following units of Measurements. Parking spaces required
finteiortot —ssi—<‘—sSCSYCY Lot measurements shall be utilized to calculate per available seat or per employee,
10. Location shared driveway, rear parking requirements. student, or occupant shall be based on

street, frant street as last
resort

[BIGYCLE PARKING
11. Bicycle parking to be provided in a secure tocation

_———— —— = =

Table 8.2.- — Parking Ilene

; 2 spaces
5. Office/Professional AND 1/ each additional 10,000 sq. ft.

6. Open Space per the ARC

Front Street

Figure 8,1 - Parking area placement example diagram. Not to scale

able of Worksheet Glossary 86 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
ontents —



17.171.080 PARKING

the greatest number of persons on the

Table 8.3 - Vehicular Parking Requirements by Use & Form District

largest shift, the maximum number of
students enrolled, or the maximum fire-
rated capacity, whichever measurement is

applicable

1. Single Family | 20 fe] 20 fe 20 | erdwellingunit_ (iv) Bench Seating, For uses in which users
2. Multifamily (Studio/1 Bed) a occupy benches, pews, or other similar

3. Multifamily (2 Bedrooms) per ai seating facilities, each linear 2'-0" of such

4. Multifamily (3+ Bedrooms) a Ee 6 per dwelling unit seating shall be counted as one seat
1.0 rf NI ,
sioomty : l ” aii vie ov e ii
_ : of required off-street vehicular parking spaces

results in a fractional number, any result of
0.5 or more shall be rounded up to the next

: ai 3 iz : i Fs . h : ;
7. Assembly (Public & Private) 02 0.25 0.2 02 na per seat (capacity) consecutive whole number. Any fractional
y

result of less than 0.5 may be rounded down

8. Medical/Dental C to the previous consecutive whole number.

9 — /Museum/Post Office i 600 sa. ft (c) When there are multiple uses on a lot, spaces
shall be calculated as an amount equal to the

11. School: Pre-K through combined requirements for all uses on the lot.

Junior High (i) This calculation is not necessary when the

AR a i Ci Y
12. School: High Schoo! & C (Architectural Review Committee) has

Higher Education approved a shared parking agreement
TBD = to be determined by the ARC (Architectural Review Committee) C. SHARED USE PARKING REDUCTIONS
Wa = use is not permitted in the given form district The following reductions may be taken for multiple

non-single family uses:
1. Shared vehicular parking is an arrangement in
which two or more non-residential uses with
different peak parking demand times use the

Tableot 2) worksheet — 87 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
contents : =


17.171.080 PARKING

4. Peak Time Shared Parking Uses. The following

Table 8.3 cont. - Vehicular Parking Requirements by Use & Form District

uses are considered predominantly weekday
uses: office and industrial uses and other similar
uses as authorized by the ARC

The following uses are typically considered

/12.GeneralRetail | 10 5 | 10 Peto] ve | per300sg ft predominantly nighttime or Sunday uses: bars
|13.Neighborhood Retail | 075 J iG] 10 Peage] 05 | per 300saft and eh SRR aE
Fiacewasevce | 0s Pas | 0s Pas | ve | peat | nmayteate
is Neighborhoodsenice | 05 [gm] os Peel os | peraoath | ..

05 05 5. Shared Vehicular Parking Reduction. When two or
“Os : a more categories of non-single family residential
uses share 2 parking lot and are located on the

17. Office/Professional 110° (ee) 1.0 ees per 2505q, ft same lot or adjacent lots, the following applies:
EY) / (a) Reduction Calculations. Shared parking
18. Craftsman - ; / ‘
$0sa per 1,000 sq. ft. production space reductions will be approved in accordance

> with the following:
[19.0pen Space| 780 te | Teo fo] 180 | per the ARC (i) For each applicable use category, calculate
TBD = to be determined by the ARC (Architectural Review Committee) the number of spaces required as if it were
n/a = use is not permitted in the given form district the only use.

(ii) Use the figures for each individual use to
calculate the number of spaces required

same off-street parking spaces to meet their off- on sufficient competent evidence provided by for that use for each time period specified
street parking requirements. the applicant, that there is no substantial conflict in Table 8.4. This table establishes six time
2. General Provisions. After reviewing the site plan, in the principal operating hours of the uses for periods per use.
the ARC may permit up to 100% of the parking which the sharing of parking is proposed. (iii) For each time period, add the number
required for a daytime use to be supplied by the Approved shared parking lots that straddle a side of spaces required for all applicable uses
off-street parking spaces that are also provided or rear lot line, occupying portions of each lot on to obtain a grand total for each of the six
for a nighttime or Sunday use, and vice versa. either side of the lot line, are exempt from the time periods.
3. Approval. In order to approve a shared parking parking lot setback requirements along that lot (iv) Select the time period with the highest
arrangement, city planning staff must find, based line. See Chapter 5.0 total parking requirement. This is the total
88 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Table of &
Contents 5 Worksheet



17.171.080 PARKING

number of parking spaces required for the
mb p 95P; q Table 8.4-- Shared Parking Reduction Calculation Table

shared parking reduction. —- === -——--—. --— _—__

6. Uses in Different Buildings. After reviewing USE CATEGORY, ee ao __|__iaas —_

the site plan the ARC may approve the shared OR TYPE

parking reduction agreement if any of the uses a

are not located in the same structure or building. >.Hospitaity ——*«| 100% ~—+| 65% | 100% | 100% | 65% | 100% |
7. Any shared parking location must be within 500- [3 Rerail&Service | 5% =| 100% =| som =| 5% = 100% =| come

0° from the entrance of the use to the closest 14.PlaceofWorship | 0% | 30% | 50% | om |

parking space within the shared patking lot, -»-‘[S.ThestevEnterainment {5% | 30% | 100m | 5% |

measured along a dedicated pedestrian path. | 60% |
8. Off-Site Shared Parking Agreernent. An [7.ffice/Professional | 5% «| 100% =| 5%] 5% | sm | 5%

agreement approved by the city attorney
providing for cooperative use of off-site parking
spaces, executed by the parties involved, shall
be reviewed by the ARC during review of the site

350'-0" of any property line may be credited
against the parking requirement at a rate of one

Plan. credit for every three public parking spaces.
Off-site cooperative parking arrangements shall 2. Transit Credit. For all uses, vehicular parking
continue in effect only as long as the agreement requirements may be reduced with proximity to
remains in force. any transit line with headways of 15 minutes or
If the agreement is no longer in force, then less. Proximity is measured along a walking path
parking must be immediately provided as from any point along the property line to the
otherwise required in this chapter. platform or transit stop:
(a) Within 400'-0" a reduction of up to 15% of the
D. PARKING CREDITS required off-street parking is permitted.
Vehicular parking standards in Table 8.3 may be (b) Within 800'-0" a reduction of up to 10% of the
reduced by achieving one or all of the following required off-street parking is permitted,
credits.

1. Public Parking Credit. For all non-residential uses,
off- street public parking spaces located within

Table of (B) worrsheet Glossary 89 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.090 SIGNAGE

17.171.090 SIGNAGE

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 4. Sign Quantity. Indicates the number of signs (b) No sign shall be attached to a utility pole,
permitted per unit. traffic pole, tree, standpipe, gutter, drain, or
A. INTENT (a) For the per commercial tenant unit, a other vertical support structure that was not
This chapter seeks to enhance the economic and commercial tenant is the entity that occupies purpose-built to support the sign
aesthetic appeal of Murray's City Center through one or more commercial units in the building (c) Signs shall be erected so as to permit free
the reasonable, orderly, safe, and effective display of and is the owner or lessee of the unit(s) ingress to and egress from any door, window,
signage. Signage should contribute to the identity (b) Different sign types may be used by different the roof, or any other exit-way required by
and brand of each area. commercial tenants on the same building the building code or by fire department
Regulations in the Murray City Code of Ordinances, 5. Sign Location. Unless otherwise specified, signs regulations.
may be substituted if required by the Architectural shall only be located within the boundaries of (d) No sign shall be erected or maintained in
Review Committee (ARC) the lot and not in the right-of-way or on public such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
property vision of, interfere with, or be confused with

B. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

Compliance with the regulations outlined shall be

anv auth tre ig ian >t devic
(a) Certain sign types may project beyond a yauthorined trafhie sign, signal oF device,
property line into the right-of-way or into or where it may interfere with vehicle or train

attained under the following situations line-of-sight

public property.

1. Newly Constructed or Reconstructed Signage
All new signs and structural improvements to
existing signs shall comply with these regulations
2. Change in Sign Type. For existing signage,
whenever the existing sign is changed to a new
sign type, the new sign and content shall comply

with these regulations

3. Maximum Sign Area. Unless otherwise specified

the total area of all permanent signage associated
with any building shall be no more than 15% of Sign Sign Hanging Sen

the area of the primary building facade. Figure 9.1 - Sign types diagram. Not to scale.

Table of Ss Worksheet 90 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents



17.171.090 SIGNAGE

(e) Signs oriented to the pedestrian realm are (e) When an external artificial light source is used Table 9.1 - Sign Type by Form District
required for each entryway on a public to illuminate a sign, the light source (lamp,
street. These signs should be mounted at a bulb, LED array) shall be located, shielded,
comfortable height and be clear and legible and oriented so as to not be visible from any -
from the close range at which a pedestrian public street or private residence. wale ee ee

[awnng | ee]? |e],

encounters the sign. The bottom edge of (i) No receptacle or device housing a 3, Hanging/Projecting fe lele pede |
; sn ir rojectir
each sign should be no higher than 9'-0" from permitted light source which is attached laMonument of Pt ele le] n |
the ground plane, and shall not exceed a total to the sign itself shall extend more than
, 5. Wayfinding Mts
area of 25 square feet 1'-6"from the face of the sign 6.Window  —« | P Pepe] Pp Pepe] ep |
6. \llumination. All signs shall be illuminated (ii) Sign output counts towards minimum 17.Directory «| P | pl P Pope N |

according to the following provisions unless light output per property. See 100k P=Permitted | N= Not Permitted
otherwise stated: lumens/acre limit in Chapter 7.0
(a) ru Se ireeeccbnisiaited be (iii) —— 7 oe — (a) When a double sided sign is permitted the
shercnisterral isk cminaie sign area requirements apply to each side of
— the sign separately.
” peices tethers legos ray Se ietsnally Zs Yemecrant ons. The foteninestanctends apeny 9. Sign Type Requirements. The following pertain to
illuminated as permitted per each sign type; to temporary signage

specific sign types detailed in this chapter.

when this type of lighted lettering is used, no (a) Each non-residential tenant may be allowed (a) Temporary Signs. A-Frame signs constructed
other portion of the sign shall be internally one temporary A-frame sign oialeenennaneiiunicnaails

illuminated
a ‘ (b) Temporary signs shall not be located in the weighted are allowed. Such signs shall be no
¢) Gas-discharge tube signage, common
c 9 nag Y public right-of-way or clear view area greater than 8 square feet per side. No other
known as a “neon sign," is permitted as a .
(c) Temporary sign exposure is limited to three 30 temporary signs are permitted
design element on any sign type, given that .
day periods per year (b) Window Signs shail not count toward
the requirements for that sign type are met
; (d) Temporary signs shall not count toward the the signage quantity and area or size
(d) Electronic message centers, also known as
ae requirements of any other sign type requirements for any other sign type
electronic message boards, digital displays,
; 8. Double sided signs are permitted with certain (c) Signs Facing onto Parking Lots. One parking
or digital marquee signs, are signs that use
sign types. A double sided sign has two sign faces lot facing sign is permitted in addition to the
computer-generated messages or some other , ;
of equal dimensions that are coplanar and face in maximum requirements for other sign types.

electronic means of changing the words.

, , opposite directions.
Electronic message centers are not permitted. PP

Glossary 91 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Table of = ja-2]
Contents = Worksheet


17.171.090 SIGNAGE

(i) Permitted sign types for parking lot facing

(ii) Maximum sign area is 30 square feet

nis ertner 2 side or rear

(iii) Permitted lo

facade that faces a parking lot

(iv) If such signs face existing single family
homes, they may not be illuminated

(d) Iconic ‘

those with a hist

ori¢ ther significant

meaning, Me e discretion

of the city if the lighting of the sign does not

neighbors and

the sign helps to identify the unique area

Such signs shall comply with the following
(i) Symbol or Logo Size. The symbol or logo

may not be larger than 10’-0” across in any

directior

(ii)

ernal illumination

be provided

(iii) The text

of the sign may not

e overall area of

De more th

the sign
(e) Historic Signs. Any existing signs that the
or of local

city has identified as historic

significance, shall be ir the site plan

approval process in order to encourage their

preservation and/or reuse
preservation and/or reuse

Figure 9.3 - Example of a street with sufficient signage

(ny Table of
Contents

| Worksheet 8 Glossary 92 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.090 SIGNAGE

2. WALL SIGNS 3. Painted signs, a type of wall sign painted directly C. CALCULATION
A. INTENT onto the building facade, are permitted. The area of a wall sign is calculated using the

. 4, Nameplate signs indicate the name or following information:
Wall signs, also known as flat, channel letter, or band occupation of the tenant. They shall be subject to 1. For attached signs, area is calculated by drawing
signs, are mounted directly to the building face to all of the requirements of the wall sign type, but the smallest possible square or rectangle around
which the sign is parallel. shall be no larger than 3 square feet maximum the largest letters and/or elements, as illustrated
B. REGULATIONS per tenant. | . in Figures 9.4 and 9.5.

5. No wall signs shall be permitted on any facade . i i i i
Wall signs shall be developed according to the : 9 ssnaus : / ¥ 2. For painted signs, area is calculated by measuring
: facing an existing single family residential zone, the area of the smallest square or rectangle that
standards in Table 9.2. a .
except for iconic sign elements as approved by can be drawn around all of the sign elements,

1, Wall signs shal not cover windows or other the city,
building openings.

including any painted background.

2. Wall signs shall not cover architecturat building
features, and shall be architecturally compatible
with the building.

| Table 9. 2- - Wall Sign Requirements

lt. ‘Permitted D Districts CC, BD, NC, TN

2.0 sq. ft. of sign area / linear foot of facade bay width, 200 sq.
ft. max. area / sign

3 sq. ft. max. / tenant for nameplate signs

3. Height 3'-0" max letter or element height
permitted on frontages

Figure 9.5 - Mounted wall sign example ‘ 1'-0" max. projection from building face
T max. / commercial tenant / frontage

7. Internal 5 ae
flominevon permitted for individual letters and lagos

. solid wood, metal, masonry, and glass are permitted
Figure 9.4 - Sign measuring diagrams: 8. Materials
mounted sign (top), painted sign
(bottom), Not to scale.

plastic and synthetics are permitted only as separate
alphanumeric characters or lago elements

Beco Eb worksheer [Sf ciossary 93 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.090 SIGNAGE

3. AWNING SIGNS
A. INTENT

A sign that is mounted, painted, or otherwise applied

on or attached to an awning.

B. REGULATIONS

Awning signs shall be developed according to

+.

the standards in Table 9.3 and the encroachment

regulations in Chapter 5.0.

Cc. CALCULATION Figure 9.6 - Awning sign example Figure 9.7 - Awning sign diagram.
Not to scale.
The area of the awning is defined as the rectangular

ea of the building facade that is covered by the
awning, i.e. awning height x awning width
The sign area is a percentage of the surface area of Table 9.3 - Awning Sign Requirements

the awning. The surface area is the total area of the 1. Permitted Districts

sides and front of the awning, including both vertical +. Agni Ales 3.0 sq. ft. of awning area / linear foot of primary de bay width,
and sloped or rounded parts of the awning. Sign sites BU sb S

area is calculated by drawing the smallest possible

square or rectangle around the largest letters and/

or elements of the sign portion of the awning, as

ojection from the building faca s determined by

age type, see Cha

illustrated in Figure 9.4

not overlap, block, or cover any wind door, or roof

/ commercial tenant / frontage

wning surface shall be made of canvas, metal, glass, or wood,

pias

all structural supports shall be made of r

Table of = Worksheet 94 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents



17.171.090 SIGNAGE

4. HANGING/PROJECTING SIGNS B. REGULATIONS
A. INTENT Projec

1. Double sided signs are permittec

building face or hangs from a support structure that
projects from the building face. Sign faces are typicaily a =
4 Fr facade facing an existing single family residential

perpendicular to the buildir e, but may be angled

ne, except for icor gn elements as approved

ees, The a

by the «

ty

gns are not permitted Figure 9.9 - Projecting sign example

Table 9.4 - Hanging / Projecting Sign Requirements

nry, and gla

Figure 9.8 - Projecting sign diagram. Not to scale.

Table of [= worksheet Glossary 95 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


17.171.090 SIGNAGE

Il be included in

5. WINDOW SIGNS 3. Temporary window signs sh

the total percentage of sig indow

A. INTENT

calculation

A window sign is f i, placed, or affixed 4. Window signs may not be internally illuminated

to or near the interior surface of a window for public Neon (gas-discharge tube), LED screens and

viewing on the exterior of the window. Window shapes, marquee signs, and other similar

signs should be durable and attached securely to the illuminated signs are not permitted

interior surface.

B. REGULATIONS

Window signs shall be developed according to the

standards in Table 9.5 Figure 9.10 - Window sign example

C. CALCULATION

The total window area is a sum of th

individual windows and glass doors. A continuous
Table 9.5 - Window Sign Requirements

set off windows is a group of one or more windows

or glass doors that are separated by mullions or

frames less than 0’-8" in width. To measure sign area

yy the total

percentage, divide the total sign a

WINGOW area

1. Window signs are not counted toward a site's
maximum signage allowance

2. Address and hours of operation

sare

considered exempt and are not counted in the
vindow sign area calculation

1 individual window or continuous bank of

paint, wood, glass, plastic, metal, and other similar materials

are permitted

Table of

— Worksheet 8 Cissy 96 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.090 SIGNAGE
6. WAYFINDING SIGNS Sign Aree.

A. INTENT ¢— Sign Area.
v :
an @ mounted on one or two poles. Three ; 3

6. Asign mounted on a single pole Set of poles.

7. Asign hanging from a single pole Figure 9.12 - Wayfinding sign diagrams. Not to scale.
B. REGULATIONS
Wayfinding signs are only permitted for wayfinding
purposes for the entire deveiopment, not for
, , Table 9.6 - Wayfinding Sign Requirements
Wayfinding signs shall be developed a rding to the

standards in Table 9.6

Figure 9.11 - Wayfinding sign example

Table of
Contents

sp Worksheet iS Glossary 97 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.090 SIGNAGE

7. MONUMENT SIGNS
A. INTENT

A monument sign is freestanding and located in a

front yard or side yard of a lot

B. REGULATIONS

This sign’s location and quan

ty requirements are

the same as those of the directory sign type and the

maximum quantity is cumulative between the two
sign types. E.g. If each sign type has a maximum of 2 Figure 9.13 - Monument sign Figure 9.14 - Monument sign example

, diagram. Not to scale.
that means 2 total between the types, not 4 total, and 9

can be 2 of either type or | of each type
Monument signs shall be developed according to the
standards in Table 9.7

1. Multiple tenant buildings on a lot with a width

of greater than 300’-0", measured across the Table 9.7 - Monument Sign Requirements

front property line, may have signage with the 1. Permitted Districts | CC, BD, NC, TN

(a) Up to two monument signs on one frontage. oe ’-0" H x 10'-0"W x 3'-0"W max. includ n face(s) and all
tructures

(b) Signs shall be at least 150'-0" apart =

2. Monument Signs may not be pole-mounted

3. Manually changeable text is not permitted for

evelopment / street frontage (cumulatively shared

monument signs
4. May serve multiple purposes such as seating

and logo

5. If placed closer than 5’-0" from the front and
corner side property lines, signs must meet clear
view requirements.

6. Double sided signs are permitted

all structural supports shall be made of meta! or wood

7. Cabinet style monument signs are not permitted

Table of

Contents Worksheet

Glossary 98 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.090 SIGNAGE

8. DIRECTORY SIGNS
A. INTENT

Directory signs are a spec

da monument sign

are located within

They list multiple businesses tha
the same development. The intent is to provide one
collectively shared sign rather than one sign for each

separate business
B. REGULATIONS

The directory sign location and qua

equireme

are the same as those of the monument sign type and :
the maximum quantity is cumulative between the Figure 9.15 - Monument mounted directory sign example
two sign types. E.g. If each sign type has a maximum
of 2, that means 2 total between the types, not 4 tota

and can be 2 of either type or 1 of each type

all be developec ording to the Table 9.8 - Directory Sign Requirements

Directory signs s

requirements in Table 9.8 1. Permitted Districts

1. Double sided signs are p

netics are permitted only as separate

Table of
Contents

wotenet BB canay 99 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171.090 SIGNAGE

9. MARQUEE SIGNS if there is a vertically-oriented hanging/projecting
sign above the canopy it shall be located above,

A. INTENT not adjacent to, the canopy. A hanging/projecting

A marquee sign is a canopy located above the sign shall meet the requirements of the hanging/

main entrance of a theater, cinema, or other type of projecting sign type with one exception: the sign

performance hall. The sides and front of the canopy face and structural supports are permitted to extend

display the name of the establishment in permanent above the roof of the building but not beyond the

text and the name of what is currently playing in hanging/projecting sign maximum height

variable text. The variable text must be manually Marquee signs shall be developed according to the

changeable, not an electronic display or mechanically requirements in Table 9.9
changeable text. The name of the establishment may
also be displayed on a vertically-oriented hanging/

projecting sign immediately above the canopy.

The intent is for marquee signs in the Murray City
Center FBC area to be of a traditional style, not a Figure 9.16 - Marquee sign example

modern electronic message sign style.

Table 9.9 - Marquee Sign Requirements

B. REGULATIONS
1. Permitted Uses performance theater, concert hall, movie theater
—_ ‘ hat encroach as
Marquee sign canopies that encroach into the 2. Permitted Building _ | canopy permissions vary by building type and frontage, see part 2
public right-of-way are subject to the encroachment Types ar 5

requirements and limitations for canopies found in
the part 2 building type tables. See chapter 5.

. 10’-0" min. clearance above the ground plane
6. Placement
shall not project within less than 2’-0” from the back of curb
1 max. / theater, cinema, or performance ha
8. Internal Illumination | permitted for individual letters and logos
solid wood, metal, masonry, and glass are permitted

plastic and synthetics are permitted only as separate

alphanumeric characters or logo elements

9. Materiais

all structural supports shall be made of metal or wood

Table of
Contents

100 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Worksheet Glossary



17.171.100 ADMINISTRATION

17.171.100 ADMINISTRATION "INFORM PROJECT.

PLANNING & DESIGN

PRE-APPLICATION

1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 2. HISTORIC BUILDINGS Fa MEETING

A. INTENT
not subject to
PaO ENS FORMAL PROJECT
APPLICATION
se blliitie SUBMITTAL

City. This code intends to increase c onformity to the

n this code but

greatest extent possibie

PLANNING STAFF
REVIEW & COMMENTS

Any permanent updates or revisions to this FBC must

ARCHITECTURAL
2. SCOPE OF REGULATIONS Jecrmined by city plnningsiatiandheatccwee == oe
. . COMMITTEE (ARC)
A. NEW DEVELOPMENT ecessary a =
CERTAIN THRESHOLDS, =
C. APPROVED DESIGN REVIEW a PRE RRS TRE g
ELIGIBLE a
APPLICATIONS FOR ADAIENSTRATIVE COMMISSION 4:

applicable eguinons® BEeSE bee Figure 10.1 - Proposed FBC application and administration

te, said process

B. CHANGES TO EXISTING BUILDINGS
1. NON-HISTORIC BUILDINGS

1. Work or construction is begun within one year of

ns affecting a tive date of this code

2. Work or construction continues diligently toward

Contents

fal Table of = wiceistiee 8 Glossary 101 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


317.171.7100 ADMINISTRATION

rea aleniener Saas . ————— *

Table 10.1 -Proposed Tier 1 FBC Area Table 10.2-- Proposed Tier 2 FBC Area

Nonconformity Regulations _ Nonconformity Regulations, ____

Wa C—“‘“(MCC‘*U GEE
Newson 1, Expansion where the total floor area

2. Minor facade changes that do not Triggers of the expansion does not exceed 10%
significantly alter the visua! character or of the existing total floor area

function and cost less than 50% of the 1. No expansions that will intrude into
building's appraised value Limitations any FBC required setbacks
1Tatt
3. New accessory structure 2. No expansions that will create a new
ae 1, No change in the number of FBC nonconformity
Limitations , .
dwelling units

Table 0.3 - Proposed Tier 3 FBC Area
WNonconformity Regulations:

1, Major facade changes that
significantly alter the visual character or
function of the building

2. Building facade changes that cost
more than 50% of the building's
appraised value

3. Expansion where the total floor area
of the expansion is more than 10% and
less than 25% of the existing totat floor
area

1. No expansions that will intrude Into
any FBC required setbacks

2. No expansions that will create a new
FBC nonconformity

shall be brought into FBC compliance
closer FBC compliance
3. Architectural massing, features, and

3. NON-CONFORMANCE detailing shall be brought into closer

FBC compliance

After the effective date of this code, existing buitdings

and uses that do not comply with the regulations of 2, Illegal nonconformities were not permitted when Administration |2. Site plan review

Limitations

detailing shall be brought into closer 3. Architectural massing, features, and
FBC compliance detalling shail be brought Into closer

Administration | 2. Site plan review

1. All signage on buildings and on site shall be brought into FBC compliance
Remedies 2. Architectural massing, features; and Remedies closer FBC compliance

3. Use permit

this code shail be considered non-conforming and are they were established and/or are a result of a

subject to the standards of this code. non-permitted, nonconforming change.

Nonconformity means not conforming with the city’s Municipal nonconformity regulations define how

current zoning regulations. There are two types of legal nonconformities are addressed after a zoning

nonconformity: regulation change. The adoption of a Form Based A. DEFINITIONS

1. Legal nonconformities were permitted and Code (FBC) will create legal nanconformities so these 1. Permission: Permitted changes that require no

conforming when they were established but nonconformity regulations are very important for remedy
have become nonconforming due to a zoning current property owners and all future changes to 2. Limitation: Limitations placed on permissions
regulation change. . nonconformities within the FBC area. 3. Trigger: A change that requires a specific remedy

mae of Worksheet Glossary 102 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
‘ontents y —



17.171.100 ADMINISTRATION

4. Remedy: The remedy required by a specific 3. Interior construction that does not result in appeal the decision to the appeal authority following
trigger change of use and is not visible from the exterior the process defined in the Murray City Code of

5. Exemption: Conditions in which the trigger does of the building. Ordinances.
not require a remedy 4. Emergency repairs ordered by a city official in B. CHANGING FORM DISTRICTS

6. Abandoned: A use, structure, or sign that has order to protect health and safety.

A property owner who wishes to change the form
not been continuously and actively operated or property 9

used for a period of 12 months, or more, from 4. REVIEW AND APPROVALS district designation of their property shall go through
‘ the City's standard zone change process.

the time that the use, structure, or sign became 1. All development applications for the City Center
nonconforming, regardless of intent to resume area will be reported to the planning commission = C, MINOR MODIFICATIONS OF AN
operation and city council in staff reports. APPROVED SITE PLAN
7. Change of Use: An existing nonconforming 2. All development applications in the Residential Minor modifications of an approved site plan shall
use that has been terminated and replaced by Transition (RT) districts will be required to appear be evaluated through a letter of application, the
another use. Any change of use in violation of the in a public meeting. provision of the reasoning behind the request, and
FBC is deemed an immediate abandonment of 3. Developments in the CC, NC, TN, or BD form the new, modified site plan. Such requests may be
the nonconforming use. districts that meet one or both of the following made for:
8. Non-conforming buildings that have been criteria will not require a public meeting or 1, Minor modifications to proposed landscaping
destroyed by natural causes may be replaced planning commission review, application plans, pursuant to the modification standards
to their origina! condition within one year of approval will be made administratively: established.
casualty, (a) Development fot is smaller than ? acre 2. Minor modifications to buildings, including
B. EXEMPT ACTIVITIES (b) Structure size is less than 20,000 square feet building placement and materials, pursuant to
The following activities are exempt from the A. APPEALS the modification stands.
ee . . (a) Building materials that reflect the intent of the
administrative requirements: All city decisions which interpret or administer this original material
1, Ordinary repairs for the purpose of regular chapter may be appealed through the existing (b) The ci ifvth . F thi
building, signage, lighting or site maintenance. appeals proceedings. ty may modify the requirements of this
- ; chapter where full compliance is impossible
2. Replacement of existing windows, doors, or Following final action by the applicable land use due to the existing site or building conditions.
fotures that do not change the transparency authority, any person with standing to challenge 3. Minor modifications to parking requirements,
percentage of the building. the decision may, within ten days of the final action,

pursuant to the development of an alternative
parking plan.

Table of Worksheet Glossary 103 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
intents x —


17.171.100 ADMINISTRATION

D. APPROVAL BY DEGREE OF CHANGE

The degree of modification of an approved site
plan determines which body must approve the
changes. The percentage of change is determined
by city planning staff through a review of the letter
of application and a comparison of the original,
approved site plan and the modified site plan.

1. CHANGES LESS THAN 10%

Minor modification of less than 10% of an approved
site plan must be approved by city planning staff.

2. CHANGES FROM 10% TO 20%

Minor modifications of between 10% and up to 20%
of an approved site plan must be approved by CED
staff,

3. CHANGES GREATER THAN 20%

Minor modifications greater than 20% of an approved
site plan must be approved by the ARC.

Table of Worksheet 5) Glossary 104 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
onten 5



17.171.110 GLOSSARY

17.171.110 GLOSSARY

1. GRAPHICS canopies, parking structure, storage, utility, and 8. Blank Wall Limitation. A restriction of the amount

The graphics, tables, and text used throughout this maintenance sheds, etc of windowless area permitted on a facade that

Form Based Code (FBC) are regulatory. In case of a 2. Anirnal. All non-human members of the arial SEAN ETI

conflict, text shall override tables and graphics, and kingdom, including domestic and livestock 9. Block. The aggregate of lots, passages, lanes, and
species alleys bounded on all sides by streets

tables shall override graphics
3. Applicant. The owner of a subject property or the 10. Block Depth. A block measurement that is the

2. WORD DEFINITIONS & USES authorized representative of the owner on which horizontal distance between the front property
The mesning.and usage of terminology is not 2 land development application is being made. line on a block face and the front property line of
universal. Some of the terms in this FBC are used 4. ARC. Architectural Review Committee RE aren aE AIDANI Ay PATRI OER,
differently in other contexts. The definitions provided 5. Assembly. A facility that has organized services, 11. Block Ends. The lots located on the end of a
in this FBC ate specific to how they are used within meetings, or programs to benefit, educate block; these lots are often larger than the lots in
the FBC. These definitions are not subject to multiple entertain, or promote discourse amongst the interior of the block or those at the opposite
interpretations and shall not be altered. When a community residents in a public or private end of the black and can be located on a more
definition is not provided herein, refer to the Murray setting. Assembly includes uses such as a intense street type. They are typically more
City Municipal Code community center, house of worship, and private suitable for more intensive development, such as
clubs and lodges multiple family or mixed use development.
3. DEFINED TERMS 6. Auto-Related Use. An establishment primarily 12. Block Face. The aggregate of all the building
For the purposes of this code, the following terms engaged in the sale or rental of goods, RS ee a Sch
shall have the following meanings merchandise, and services related to vehicles, 13. Block Length. A block measurement that is the
1. Accessory Structure. Structures located on the icici tiated SECS REEL SE OECD
ee ee vehicle and vehicle-related equipment sales of the lots comprising the block
building(s) with use(s) that are incidental _ “ SONOPINEUGE Sut Gismanting 1A IGT eae Foe in wet re Sea
to the use(s) of the principal building(s) salvage, junk yards, and similar uses or comer side facade of a building shall be
Examples include a garage, ADU, parking lot 7. Bay or Facade Bay. Used to refer to one vertical located. The BTZ is expressed as the area, or zone,
facade division. between a minimum offset and a maximum

Table of & Worksheet 105 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents


17.171.110 GLOSSARY

>

offset, as measured from the right-of-way (d) sells or intends to sell a cannabis product to (f} a public playground;
property line(s). a medical cannabis pharmacy or the state (g) a public park;
15. 81Z Pedestrian Space. A type of public open central fill medical cannabis pharmacy. (bh) a youth center or other space used primarily
space that is located between a right-of-way 19, Cannabis Product. A product that: for youth-oriented activities;
property line and adjacent building facade, (a) is intended for human use and (i) a public recreational facility;
within the BTZ. (b} contains cannabis or tetrahydrocannabinol, (j) a public arcade
16. Building Type. A structure defined by the 20. Cannabis Production Establishment. A cannabis {k} a homeless shelter
combination of configuration, form, and function. cultivation facility, a cannabis processing factlity, 24. Courtyard, An outdoor area enclosed by a
Refer to Chapter 5.0 Building Types for more ind d bi ing lab aan ;
or an independent cannabis testing laboratory. building on at least two sides and is open to the
information and the list of permitted Building at +
- 21. Carport/ Storage Building. A private garage not sky.
ypes.
we te net ar . completely enclosed by walls or doors. 25. Comer Facade. On corner lots only, the new
17. Cannabis Cultivation Facility. A person or entity a aa . apa:
that 22. Clinic. A building or portion of a building facade plane created when the two facade
containing an office or offices of medical doctors, planes that meet at the corner of a building are
(a) possesses cannabis, dentists, psychiatiists, chiropractors, physical chamfered.
(b) grows or intends to grow cannabis; and therapists and other members of the medicat 26. Coverage, Building, The percentage of aot
(c) sells or intends to sell cannabis to a cannabis professions which provide facilities and services developed with a principal or accessory structure.
cultivation facility or to a cannabis processing for outpatient care, diagnosis, treatment, and 27. Coverage, Impervious Site. The percentage of
facility. observation of individuals suffering from illness, ‘ eh tt
_ _ _ ; a lot developed with principal or accessory
18. Cannabis Processing Facility. A person or entity injury or other conditions requiring medical, structures and impervious surfaces, such as
that: surgical or therapeutic services. This definition driveways, sidewalks, and patios
(a) acquires or intends to acquire cannabis froma ae not include facilities providing patient beds 28. Craftsman Use. See “Industrial/Craftsman’.
. ; ; or overnight care. °
cannabis production establishment or holder * to . 29. Critical Root Zone, Also referred to as dripline. The
of an industrial hemp processor license; 23. Community Location includes area of soil and roots within the radius beneath
(b) possesses cannabis with the intent to (a) a public or private kindergarten, elementary, the tree's canopy, within the dripline, or within
manufacture a cannabis product; middle, juntor high, or high school; a circular-area of soil and roots with a radius out
{c) manufactures or intends to manufacture a {b) a licensed child-care facility or preschool; from the trunka distance of 1.5 feet for every
cannabis product from unprocessed cannabis (c) a trade or technica! schoo!; inch of the tree's width (measured at 45 feet
oracannabis extract; and (d) a church; above the mean grade of the tree's trunk, noted
fe) a public library; as diameter breast height or DBH throughout this
code).

Table of 106 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE F8C
Contents Se Worksheet



17.171.110 GLOSSARY

30. Dedication. The intentional appropriation of land (<) Awning (b) Up to three persons all of whom are not
by the owner ta the City for public use and/or (d) Canopy (street level only) necessarily related to each other by blood,
ownership. 37. Entrance Type. The permitted treatment types marriage, or adoption, and their children
31. Density. The number of dwelling units located in of the ground floar facade of a building type. living together as a common household unit.
an area of land, usually denoted as units per acre. Entrance types include: {c) For the purposes of this code, an unrelated
32. Drive-Through Restaurant. A restaurant that {a) Storefront family shall not include persons living
includes a window or similar feature which allows (b) Arcade together in a residential care home or
food to be ordered and taken from the premises (c) Stoop transitional treatment facility in accordance
for consumption elsewhere without leaving a with the requirements of this code.
vehicte. (d) Porch 42. Fire, See “Police and Fire’

38. Expression Line. An architectural feature. A
decorative, three dimensional, linear element,

43. Form District. A defined area to which the same
connected together that include facilities for hot | ical di indented set of requirements are applied in the Form Based
living, sleeping, cooking, and eating that are orizontal of vertical, protru ing or indented at Code. Refer to Chapter 2.0 Form Districts
: least two inches from the exterior facade or a _

arranged, designed, or intended to be used as _ . . 44, Front Facade. The building facade along the front
= . building typically utilized to delineate floors or
living quarters for one family, whether owner toties of a buildi property line and front street.

; stories of a building.
occupied, rented, or leased. 45. Front Steet. The street abutting alot which has
the highest frontage type within the frontage
types hierarchy.

33. Dwelling Unit. A room or group of rooms

39. Facade. The exterior face of a building,
including but not limited to the walls, windows,
windowsills, doorways, and design elements
such as expression lines. The front facade is any

34. Easement. A legal interest in land, granted by the
owner to another person or entity, which alfows
for the use of afl or a portion of the owner's land
for such purposes as access or placement of

46. Frontage.

utilities building face adjacent to the front property line. (a) A designation along each street that
° . . determines where the front of a building is
. . |
35. Eave. The edge of a pitched roof, it typically 40. Facade Bay. Synonymous with Vertical Facade located

hangs beyond the side of a buildin Division. See Vertical Facade Division.
overhangs bey u 9. (b) The spatial interface between the public and

36. Encroachment. An encroachment refers to private spaces that exists continuously along
portions of a building that project into, or over, (a) Two or more persons, each related to the both sides of each street
the ROW property line. Encroachments are other by blood, marriage, or adoption

permitted, by building type and form district for: together with usual domestic servants and
not more than one bona fide guest, all living

41. Family. Family is defined as one of the following:

(¢) The portion of a lot’s property line which is
collocated along a public right-of-way.
(a) Roof overhang

together as a common household unit. (d) The horizontal distance between the Side
(b) Balcony Property Lines, measured at the Front
Property Lines.
Table of 07 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents & Worksheet i

sooo


17.171.110 GLOSSARY

47. Gas Station. A retail facility primarily dedicated 52. Hospitality. A facility offering temporary or long (c) Outdoor activities and storage of goods are
to selling gasoline, and other automotive fuels, term lodging to the general public consisting of not permitted.
to vehicles. May include a small convenience sleeping rooms with or without in-room kitchen 56. Itinerant merchant. Any person who engages
store. Does not include automobile repair or facilities. Secondary service uses may also be in a temporary business of selling or offering to
maintenance services. provided, such as restaurants and meeting rooms. sell any goods, wares, merchandise or services
48. Grade. The average level of the finished surface of Rooms shall be accessed from the interior of the from a stand, cart, tent or other structure not
the ground story adjacent to the exterior walls of building. Bed and Breakfasts are permitted. permanently affixed to real property.
a building. 53. Impervious Surface. Also referred to as 57. Landscape Area. Area ona lot not dedicated to
49, Gross Floor Area. The sum of all areas of a impervious material. Any hard surface, man- a structure, parking or toading facility, frontage
building, including accessory storage areas or made area that does not absorb water, including buffer, side and rear buffer, or interior parking lot
closets within sales spaces, working spaces, building roofs, sidewalks, parking, driveways, and landscaping.
o1 living spaces and any basement floor area other paved surfaces. 58. Library/Museum/Post Office. Libraries and
used for retailing activities, the production or 54. Independent Cannabis Testing Laboratory. A museums are open to the general public for
processing or goods, or business offices. It shall person or entity that: housing educational, cultural, artistic, or historic
not include attic space having headroom of (a) conducts a chemical or other analysis of information, resources, and exhibits. May also
seven feet or less and areas devoted primarily to cannabis or a cannabis product; or include food service and a gift shop. A post
storage, balconies, off-street parking and loading (b) acquires, possesses, and transports cannabis office fs a publicly accessed facility for the selling
areas, enclosed porches, roof decks, roof gardens, or a cannabis product with the intent to of supplies and mail related products and the
or basement floor area other than specified conduct a chemical or other analysis of the smallt scale.collection and distribution of mail
above. cannabis or cannabis product. and packages, Large-scale postal sorting and
50. Home Occupation. An occupational use that 55. Industrial/Craftsman Use. A use invalving small distribution is not permitted.
is clearly subordinate to the principal use as a scale manufacturing, production, assembly, and/ 59. Lodging. Specialized residential uses such as
residence and does not require any alteration to or fepair with little to no noxious by-products, hotel, inn, and residential care facility.
the exterior of a building. that includes a showroom or small retail outlet. 60. Lot. One or more parcels that are included in
51, Horizontal Facade Division. A horizontal section (a) These uses may also include associated the same development project. Most of the
of a facade that is visually separated by a facilities such as offices and small scale regulations in this F&C apply to the lot rather than
horizontal expression line that runs the length of warehousing, but distribution is limited. the parcel.
the entire facade or one or more vertical facade {b) ‘The maximum overall gross floor area is (a) Projects that are developed in phases shall
divisions. limited to 20,000 square feet, unless otherwise be considered one lot if only one permitting
noted. application process is required and 2 lots if 2

Eble of SS Worksheet 108 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
‘ontents



17,171,110 GLOSSARY

permitting application processes are required, 69. Medical/Dental Clinic. A facility or institution, 76. Open Space, Minimum Access. This requirement
3 lots for 3 permits, etc. whether public or private, principally engaged in ensures access and visibility for the open space. It
61. Lot, Corner. A lot abutting at least two vehicular providing services for health maintenance and is described in two ways:
rights-of-way, excluding an alley, at their the treatment of mental or physical conditions. (a) The percentage of the total perimeter that
intersection. 70. Museum. See “Library/Museum/Post Office” must be adjacent to a public right-of-way.
62. Lot, End Through. A lot at the end of a block that 71. Nonconformance. A structure, use, lot, or site (b) The minimum number of and/or spacing
abuts a different right-of-way on 3 of its sides and characteristic that was legally constructed between access points into the open space.
adjacent lot(s) on its fourth side. or operated prior to the effective date of or 77. Open Space Type. The permitted and regulated
63. Lot, Flag. A lot having its only access to the Amendment to this code, but that cannot be types of open spaces in this code:
adjacent vehicular right-of-way through a narrow constructed, platted, or operated after the (a) Pocket park
sttip of land, excluding an alley. effective date of or Amendment to this cade.

{b) Town square

64. Lot, Interior. A lot abutting a vehicular right-of- 72. Occupation of Corner. Locating a building's front (c) BIZ pedestrian space

way, excluding an alley, along one (1) property and side facades within the front and corner

line; surrounded by lots afong the remaining build to zanes, respectively. (d) Par

property fines. 73. Occupied Space. Interior building space regularly 78. Open Water. A pond, lake, reservoir, or other
65. Lot, Through. Also referred to as a double occupied by the building users. It does not water feature with the water surface fully

frontage lot. An interior lot having frontage include storage areas, utility space, or parking. exposed.

on two vehicular rights-of-way which are on 74. Office/Professional. A category of uses for 79. Owner. The legal or beneficial title-holder of

opposite sides of the lot, excluding an alley. businesses that involve the transaction of affairs land or holder of a written option or contract to
66. Lot Area. The computed area contained within of a profession, service, industry, or government. Purchase the land,

the property lines; it is typically denoted in square Patrons of these businesses usually have set 80. Parcel. A tract of land that is speciftcally defined

feet or acres. appointments or meeting times; the businesses in legal terms for both taxation and ownership
67. Lot Depth. The smailest horizontal distance do not typically rely on walk-in customers. purposes. tis the smallest Portion of land that

between the Front and Rear Property Lines 75. Open Space. A use of land for active or passive, may be defined in this way.

measured approximately parallel to the Corner public or private, outdoor space, including such 81. Parking Lot. An uncovered paved surface used

and/or Side Property Line. uses as parks and town squares. See Chapter 6.0. solely for the parking of vehicles. Parking lot
68. Medical Cannabis Pharmacy. A retail pharmacy Open space uses may also be utilized to host locations are regulated by frontage type.

where medical cannabis is sold, pursuant to Utah temporary private or community events, such as 82. Parking Structure, Attached. A structure used

Code Title 4-41. a farmer’s market or art fair. solely for the parking of vehicles, intended for use

by the occupants in an adjacent building on the

Table of
Contents Worksheet 109 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENT ER FORM BASED CODE FBC


17.171.110 GLOSSARY

83.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.
90.

91.

same lot. Parking Structures within the buildings
are regulated per building type.

Parking Structure, Detached. A shared parking
structure owned by the city, a parking district,

a government agency, or other public entity
intended to accommodate public and leased
parking.

. Pedestrian. Street, A street type that is designed

and designated primarily for pedestrian use with
secondary use limited to speciftc vehicles.
Pedestrianway. A pathway designed for use by
pedestrians; it can be located mid-block allowing
pedestrian movement from one street to another
without traveling along the block's perimeter.
Pervious Surface, Also referred to as pervious
material, A material or surface that allows for

the absorption of water into the ground or

plant material, such as permeable pavers or a
vegetated roof.

Plat. A map or chart of a division and/or
combination of lots.

Police and Fire. A facility providing public safety
and emergency services; training facilities, locker
rooms, and limited overnight accommodations
may also be included.

Post Office. See “Library/MuseumyPast Office’
Principal Building. They primary building that
contains the dominant use(s} of the lot. Multiple
principat buildings are permitted on some lots.

Professtonal, See *Office/Professional”

Table of
Contents Worksheet

92. Property Line. Also referred to as lot tine. A
boundary line of a parcel of land or lot.

93. Property Line, Front. A property fine located
along the front street of a lot. Front property lines
are always located along a street right-of-way.

94, Property Line, Rear. A property line located
opposite the front property line of a lot. Rear
property lines may be located along a right-
of-way or abutting adjacent property lines,
depending on lot type.

95. Property Line, Side. A property line located
between front and rear property lines. Side
property fines may be located along a right-
of-way or abutting adjacent property lines,
depending on fot type.

96. Residential. Facilities in which people reside.
Often. called “housing‘ this includes several
different building types and configurations of
dwelling units meant for individuals and groups
of people, such as a family. Units are typically
occupied for long periods of time and may be
leased or owner-occupied.

97. Residential Care. A facility offering temporary
or permanent lodging to the general public
consisting of an unlimited number of steeping
rooms with or without in-room kitchen
facilities. Residential care includes such uses as
independent and assisted living facilities, nursing
homes, and residential care homes. Assistance

0

with daily activities may be provided for residents.
Secondary service uses may also be provided,
such as restaurants and meeting rooms. Rooms
shall be accessed from the interior of the
building.

98. Retail, General. Retail uses occupying a space
larger than 12,000 square feet, and engaged in
selling goods or merchandise to the general
public for personal or household consumption
and rendering services incidental to the sale
of such goods, Including, but net limited to,
convenience stores, department stores, grocery
stores, hobby shops, etc.

99. Retail, Neighborhood. Retail uses occupying
a space smaller than 12,000 square feet, and
engaged in selling goods or merchandise to
the general public for personal or household
consumption and rendering services incidental
to the sale of such goods, including, but not
limited to, convenience stores, department
stores, grocery stores, hobby shops, etc.

100, Retail Tobacco Specialty Business. A commercial
establishment in which:

(a) the sale of tobacco products accounts for
more than 35% of the total quarterly gross
receipts for the establishment;

(b) 20% or more of the public retail floor space
Is allocated to the offer, display, or storage of
tobacco products;

CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC



17.171. 110 GLOSSARY

(c) 20% or more of the total shelf space is 106, Service, Neighborhood. Service uses occupying identify a product; and athletic field score boards
allocated to the offer, display, or storage of a space smaller than 12,000 square feet, are are not considered signs.
tobacco products; or primarily engaged in providing assistance, as (a) Wall Sign, A sign attached directly to the

(d) the retail space features a self-service display opposed to products, to individuals, business, building facade and coplanar with the
for tobacco products. industry, government, and other enterprises, building facade.

including, but not fimited to, entertainment
uses, repair of small goods and electronics (not
including vehicles), home furniture, restaurants,
etc. Multiple neighborhood service uses can be
aggregated in one development.

(b) Awning Sign. A sign that is mounted, painted,
or otherwise applied on or attached to an
awning.

101. Right-of-Way. Land dedicated or utilized for a
Street Type, trail, pedestrianway, utility, railroad, or
other similar purpose.

102. Roof Type. The detail at the top of a building that
finishes a facade and encloses the top of the
building. Permitted roof types include:

(c) Hanging/Projecting Sign. A sign that is
attached to and projects from a building
face or hangs from a support structure that
projects from the building face.

107. Semi-Pervious Surface. Also referred to as
semi-pervious material. A material that allows
for at least 40% absorption of water into the
ground or plant materia, such as pervious pavers,

(a) Parapet roof
(b) Pitched roof (d) Freestanding Post Sign. A sign that is

mounted to or hanging from one or two

{c) Flat roof permeable asphalt and concrete, or gravel. freestanding posts
(d) Tower (roof feature, nota roof type) 108. Setback. The horizontal distance from a property . ‘ _
. a. . : a | (e) Monument Sign. A sign attached toa
103. Scale. The relative size of a building, street, sign, line toward the interior of a lot, along a line freestanding structure which is typically
or other element of the built environment. perpendicular to the property line. constructed with brick, concrete, metal, wood,
104, School, An education facility withclassroomsand —-109, Sexually Oriented Business. Nude entertainment or stone.
offices, that may also include associated indoor businesses, sexually oriented outcall services, (f) Window Sign. A sign that is posted, painted
facilities such as ball courts, gymnasium, theater, adult businesses, seminude dancing bars and nlaced, or afied to or near the menor f
and food service. seminude dancing agencies. surface of a window for public viewing from
105. Service, General. Service uses occupying aspace 110. Sign, An object, device, or structure used to the exterior of the window.
larger than 12,000 square feet and are primarily advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract (g) Directory Sign. A sign that lists multiple
engaged in providing assistance, as opposed attention to an object, person, institution, businesses which are located within the
to products, to individuals, business, industry, organization, business, product, service, event, same development in order to provide one
government, and other enterprises, including, or location by such means as words, letters collective sign rather than many individual
but not limited to, entertainment uses, repair figures, images, designs, symbols, or colors. signs. May be mounted on any of the other
of small goods and electronics (not including Flags or emblems of any nation, state, city, or sign type support structures.
vehicles), home furniture, restaurants, etc. organization; works of art which in no way

{nt Table of Worksheet mW CHAPTER 17.17} MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents 4


17.171.110 GLOSSARY

111. Story. A habitable level within a building 119. Streetwall. The vertical plane created by building 126. Tree Canopy Coverage. The area of ground
measured from finished floor to finished floor. facades along a street. A continuous streetwall covered or shaded by a tree’s canopy, measured
112. Story, Ground, Also referred to as ground floor. occurs when buildings are located in a row next in square feet.
The first floor of a building that is level to or to the sidewalk without vacant lots or significant 127. Use. Also referred to as land use. A purpose or
elevated above the finished grade on the front setbacks. activity that may occur within a building or a lot.
and corner facades, excluding basements or 120. Swale. A low lying, naturally planted area with 128. Use, Accessory. A use customarily, incidental,
cellars. gradual slopes that facilitate the transport, and subordinate to the principal use or structure
113. Story, Half. A story either in the base of the absorption, and/or filtration of stormwater. and located on the same lot with such principal
building, partially below grade and partiatly 121. Tobacco Product. use of structure.
above grade, or a story fully within the roof (a) Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette, 129, Use, Principal, The specific, primary purpose for
structure with transparency facing the street. (b) a tobacco product, including: which a lot or building is utilized.
114. Story, Upper, Also referred to as upper floor. (i) chewing tobacco;or 130. Utility/ Infrastructure. A lot that is primarily
The floors located above the ground story of a utilized for the City’s infrastructure needs. Utility

(ii) any substitute for a tobacco product,
including flavoring or additives to tobacco;
and

building.
115. Street Face. The facade of a building that faces a
public right-of-way.

and infrastructure include such uses as electric or
gas services, sewage treatment, water treatment

(iii) Tobacco paraphernalia and storage, and energy conversion systems.

131. Vending Cart. A non-motorized mobile device or
pushcart on wheels that is pushed or putled and
does not move under its own power. It is used for

6. Front, reet wher rim . . .
116. Street, Front. The street where the primary 122. Transit Station, A covered passenger boarding

facade or front of the building must be located. and alighting facility for a bus or other transit
117. Street, Side. The street adjacent to the front mode.
street on a corner or end through Ict. _ the sale of goods.
123. Transparency, Minimum Ground Story . oo . ;
a 132. Vertical Facade Division. A vertical section of

and Upper Floor. The minimum amount of ; ;
transparency required on building facades the facade that is separated by varying facade

Parency req 9 features such as BTZ location (setback), materials,

118. Street Type. The permitted and regulated types
of streets in this code. Street types include:

(a) State Street located along a street frontage. : ete cs ecae oar

tb) Avenue 124. Transparency, Any glass in windows and/ fenestration, articulation, vertical expression lines,
. , etc. One vertical facade division is also referred to

(c) Connector street or doors, including any mullions, that is highly as a*bay” or “facade bay?

{d) Neighborhood street transparent with low reflectance. 133. Vehicle Access Type. The specific structure that

(e) Pedestrian street 125. Tree Canopy. The uppermost area of spreading vehicles traverse when entering a lot froma

(f) Lane branches and Jeaves of a tree. right-of-way.

Table of 17. RRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Table of (S} worksheet 12 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER



17.171. 110 GLOSSARY

134, Visible Basement. A half story partially below
grade and partially exposed above with required
transparency on the street facade.

135. Water Body. A body of water, such as a river,
pond, or lake that may be man-made or naturally
occurring.

136. Yard. The space on a lot which is unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground to the sky by
the principal building.

137. Yard, Corner Side. A yard extending from the
corner side building facade along a corner side
property line between the front yard and rear
property fine.

138. Yard, Front. A yard extending from the front
facade of the principal building along the full
length of the front property line, between
the side property lines or side and corner side
property lines.

139. Yard, Rear. A yard extending from the rear
building facade along the rear property line
between the side yards or, on a corner lot, the
corer side and side yards.

140. Yard, Side. A yard extending fram the side
building facade along a side property line
between the front yard and rear property line.

Table of HAP’ A
Tableof worksheet 13 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


FORM BASED CODE WORKSHEET Gaatou%
Please fill in the charts below with the specific details about the proposed project. City Planning staff will : ALATESE a:

determine if this project is compliant with the Murray City Center Form Based Code (FBC). If this project

does not meet the minimum requirements, please provide a detailed explanation of the non-compliance.

For questions about the FBC please contact:

PROJECT GOALS AND VISION
PLEASE EXPLAIN IN DETAIL HOW THIS PROJECT'S DESIGN FURTHERS THE MURRAY CITY COMMUNITY VISION FROM THE CITY’S GENERAL PLAN

DESIGN GOAL COMMUNITY VISION

1. PROJECT INFORMATION

Table of x 1 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents Glossary



2. STREET STANDARDS STAFF COMMENTS

3. BUILDING STANDARDS

Table of 1} Glossary 2 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


4. PARKING WITHIN
| BUILDING (SELECT)

5. INTERIOR
OCCUPIED SPACE
DISTANCE (FEET)

6. OCCUPYING
t CORNER (IF ANY)

8. SIDE STREET
SETBACK (IF ANY)
(FEET)

9, SIDE SETBACK
(FEET)

10. REAR SETBACK
(FEET}

11. ACCESSORY

N tity:
STRUCTURES (IF ANY) lo Quantity

Rear Yard Side Yard
12, PARKING

LOCATION (SELECT)

13. SERVICE
ENTRANCE LOCATION
(SELECT)

Rear Yard Side Yard

Table of 3 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents Glossary



ove Ground Stories

Table of 1) Glossary 4 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC

Contents


Percentage:

a Quantity Type: Distance (feet)

Quantity Type Distance (feet)

STAFF COMMENTS

Table of : 5 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents Sinseaey



5. LANDSCAPING STAFF COMMENTS

6. PARKING

Table of - 6 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents ney


A STAEICOMMENLS)

4. FRONT STREET
SETBACK (FEET)

5. SIDE STREET
SETBACK (IF ANY)
(FEET)

6. SIDE SETBACK
(FEET)

7, REAR SETBACK
(FEET)

HSTAECOMEENES

8. NUMBER. OF
DRIVEWAYS

9. DRIVEWAY
WIDTH(S) (FEET)

10. LOCATION(S)

11. PLAN FOR ON
SITE STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT

Table of Glossary 7 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents —



7. SIGNAGE STAFF COMMENTS

Janging/Projecting

Wayfinding Directory

Contents

Table of iS) — 8 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC


.

4. BALCONY
DIMENSIONS (IF ANY)
{FEET)

5. FACADE DIVISIONS
OR FENESTRATION
DESCRIPTION

6. METERS AND
EQUIPMENT
LOCATION(S)

7.SOLAR POWER |
| SHADOW STUDY

8. VISITABILITY
REQUIREMENTS MET

Table of , 9 CHAPTER 17.171 MURRAY CITY CENTER FORM BASED CODE FBC
Contents Glossary

