ORDINANCE NO. 25-29

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 17.08.020, 17.68.030,
17.68.040, AND 17.68.060 OF THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
RELATING TO LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Sections
17.08.020, 17.68.030, 17.68.040, and 17.68.060 of the Murray City Municipal Code
relating to landscaping requirements.

Section 2. Amend sections 17.08.020, 17.68.030, 17.68.040, and 17.68.060 of
the Murray City Municipal Code. Sections 17.08.020, 17.68.030, 17.68.040, and
17.68.060 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be amended to read as follows:

17.08.020: TERMS DEFINED:

ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure located upon the same lot
which is customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure.

ACTIVE RECREATION AREAS: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where
lawn may be used as the playing surface (ex. Sports fields and play areas).

ACTIVITY ZONES: Portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function, such
as storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

ADVERSELY AFFECTED PARTY: A person other than a land use applicant who: (a)
owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of a land use application or
land use decision; or (b) will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct
from, that of the general community as a result of the land use decision.

LAND USE DECISION: An administrative decision of a land use authority or appeal
authority regarding: (a) a land use permit; (b) a land use decision; or (c) the
‘enforcement of a land use regulation, land use permit, or development agreement.

LAWN: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.
LIVEAWORK UNIT: A dwelling unit in which a significant portion of the space includes a

nonresidential use that is operated by the owner/occupant. The nonresidential area of
the unit shall be limited to the ground floor and shall not occupy greater than fifty


percent (50%) of the live/work unit total floor area. The live/work unit shall not be greater
than three thousand (3,000) total square feet and no more than five (5) nonoccupant
workers or employees are to occupy the nonresidential area of the live/work unit at any
one time.

17.68.030: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

A. Installation Of Landscape And Related Improvements; Landscape and related
improvements required by this chapter shall be installed if:

1. Aconditional use permit is required; or
2. Asite plan review is required; or

3. The cost of construction or remodeling exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
value of the structure.

a. Market value of a structure shall be determined according to the most recent
county property tax rolls, or at the applicant's option and sole expense, by an appraisal
from a state certified general appraiser, as defined in Utah Code Annotated title 61,
chapter 2g.

b. Facade Exemption: For facade improvements or remodeling that involves
exterior changes only, the requirement for installation of landscaping and related
improvements does not apply.

B. Landscape Plan Required; Exemptions:

1. Conditional Use Permit And/Or Site Plan Review: In association with a
conditional use application and/or site plan review, the applicant shall submit a formal
landscape plan (per phase if the project is multipnhased) as indicated on the appropriate
application. The plans must be submitted with the site plan, and must include or show:

2. Building Permit Application: In association with a building permit application, the
applicant shall submit a formal landscape plan prepared and sealed by a Utah
registered landscape architect (per phase if the project is multiphased) for review and
approval by community and economic development division staff. Plans for office
conversions or new buildings of four thousand (4,000) square feet or less do not require
a signature by a registered landscape architect. The formal landscape plan must include
or show:



3. Exemptions: A landscape plan is not required to be submitted in association with
the following city approvals:

a. A building permit for interior remodeling which does not involve a change of
use from residential to nonresidential or a change of use from a single-family dwelling to
either a two-family dwelling or a multi-family dwelling.

b. A permit for the following activities: reroofing, siding, temporary electrical
power, change of electrical service, change of furnace, mobile home setup, addition of
interior plumbing, addition of interior electrical, fencing, on premises sign, and off
premises sign.

c. A license to encroach upon public utility easement.

d. Adevelopment project where the existing vegetation to be retained meets or
exceeds the requirements of this chapter.

17.68.040: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:

The following standards apply to all commercial, industrial, mixed-use and multifamily
developments.

A. Perimeter:
1. Front Setback Areas:

a. Landscaping in these areas shall consist of three (3) trees, and five (5) 5-
gallon and ten (10) 1-gallon shrubs per one hundred (100) linear feet of frontage. The
trees and shrubs shall either be clustered or spread out at regular intervals. The
remaining area shall be planted with living ground cover in order for the front setback
area to meet a minimum fifty percent (50%) of landscape bed coverage at maturity.
Landscaping shall consist of a water efficient design with watering zones having plants
and similar water needs. All unpaved areas not utilized for parking or access shall be
landscaped in a similar manner,

b. The entire area between the curb and the building or parking setback line shall
be landscaped and irrigated, except for any access driveway in said area,

c. Inno case shall the front landscaped area be less than ten feet (10") behind
the back side of sidewalk or street right of way line, except in the TOD, CC-FBC,
MCMU, CMU, and VMU districts,


d. All commercial, manufacturing and multi-family residential development
fronting public or private streets shall plant trees in conformance with species and
spacing specified in the applicable streetscape plan,

e. Where a park strip is provided, the park strip shall be planted with low growth
which may include ground cover and shrubs not exceeding three feet (3') in height,
and/or high branching trees (branching shall begin not less than 6 feet above the soil
surface). Park strip areas shall also meet the minimum landscape bed coverage of fifty
percent (50%) at time of maturity.

f. Ground cover is required to provide fifty percent (50%) bed coverage at time of
maturity. Coverage calculations shall be included in the formal landscaping plan.
Ground cover includes grasses, shrubs and other low growing vegetation, but does not
include turf grass/lawn or trees. Evergreen trees may be counted as ground cover if
branches reach the ground.

2. Abutting Properties: Where multi-family residential, commercial or manufacturing
uses abut legal conforming single-family residential or where commercial or
manufacturing abut legal conforming multi-family residential uses, a masonry wall,
measuring six feet (6') high plus a minimum ten foot (10') wide landscaped buffer
consisting of trees and water efficient plant material as required by this section shall be
placed between the property line and any paved area.

B. Interior:

1. Nonparking Areas: All unpaved areas not utilized for parking or storage, shall be
landscaped utilizing drought tolerant ground cover, shrub and tree materials, and/or
grass.

2. Parking Areas: For parking lots with fifty (50) or more parking stalls, the following
standards apply:

a. Distance To Landscape Area: All parking spaces shall be within seventy five
feet (75') of a landscape area. Parking islands may be used to meet this standard.

b. Parking Islands:

(1) Parking islands shall be a minimum of one hundred sixty two (162) square
feet in area, not including the curbing required by subsection C of this section.

(2) Parking islands shall be at least nine feet (9') wide including the curbing
required by subsection C of this section.

(3) One tree and four (4) shrubs shall be required for each parking island
installed.



c. Ground Cover Required: Ground cover is required to have fifty percent (50%)
coverage at time of maturity. Coverage calculations shall be included in the formal
landscaping plan. Ground cover includes grasses, shrubs and other low growing
vegetation but does not include trees. Evergreen trees may be counted as ground cover
if branches reach the ground.

d. Trees; Required Size: Trees required for installation within interior parking
areas shall be no less than two inch (2") caliper size at time of planting.

e. Trees; Location: Trees planted within interior landscape areas shall be located
at least three feet (3') away from curb.

f. Shrubs; Size: Shrubs shall be no less in size than what is customarily
accommodated within a one gallon size container, in accordance with industry
standards.

C. Lawn Restrictions:

1. Turf grass/lawn shall not be installed in locations that are smaller than eight feet
(8’) in width.

2. Turf grass/lawn shall not be installed in park strips, paths or on slopes greater
than 25% or a 4:1 grade.

3. Turf grass/lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the total landscaped area,
outside of active recreation areas.

D. Concrete Curbing:
1. Where required landscaping is located by driveways, parking areas, aisle space,
docking areas or other similar usage in multiple-family, commercial and manufacturing

districts, the landscaping must be enclosed by a six inch (6") poured concrete curb wall;

E. Accommodation Of Bus Benches And Shelters:

17.68.060: SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:

Turf grass/lawn shall not be installed in locations that are smaller than eight feet (8’) n
width at its narrowest point.

A. Turf grass/lawn shall not be installed in:

1. park strips, or


2. paths, or

3. on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1 grade.

B. Turf grass/lawn shall not exceed 35% of the total landscaped area in the front
and side yards of new residential construction.

1. Small residential lots, which have no back yards, which the total landscaped
area is less than 250 square feet, and which the front yard dimensions cannot
accommodate the minimum eight feet (8’) wide lawn area requirements, are exempt
from the eight feet (8’) minimum width lawn requirement and maximum of 35% lawn
requirement. ;

C. Whenever a residential dwelling is constructed, landscaping shall be installed in
the front yard within one year from the date of the occupancy of the building.
Landscaped areas shall consist of an effective combination of materials which may
include trees, ground cover, shrubbery and xeriscape. All unpaved areas not utilized for
access or parking shall be landscaped in a similar manner. All landscaping shall be
maintained in a neat and orderly fashion. (Ord. 07-30 § 2)

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on

this 26'"" day of August, 2025.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

Pam Cotter, Chair

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder



, 2025.

Z sersmites to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this ‘ i day of

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED thisZf™ day of Lapculfeos

ae
Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

i | hereby certify that this Ordinance, pr a summary hereof, was published
according to law on the ay of SL - , 2025.
2 dite City Recorder
