ORDINANCE NO. 25-39

AN ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 11 OF THE MURRAY CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE ESTABLSHING THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL
COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to enact title 11 of the
Murray City Municipal! Code relating to the Administrative Code Enforcement Program.

Section 2. Enactment. Title 11 of the Murray City Municipal Code shall be
enacted as follows:
TITLE 11
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM

CHAPTER 11.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS

11.01.010: Short Title

11.01.020: Purpose

11.01.030: Scope

11.01.040: Existing Law Continued

11.01.050: Criminal Prosecution Right

11.01.060: No Mandatory Duty - Civil Liability

11.01.070: Definitions

11.01.080: Service Of Process

11.01.090: Constructive Notice Of Recorded Documents

11.01.010: SHORT TITLE:

This title shall be known as the “Administrative Code Enforcement Program” (the “ACE
Program’). This title shall also be known as Title 11 of the Murray City Code. It may be
cited and pleaded under either designation.


11.01.020: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:

The City Council finds that the enforcement of the city code and applicable state codes i
throughout the City is an important public service. Code enforcement is vital to the

protection of the public’s health, safety, and quality of life. The City Council finds that a
comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination of judicial and

administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with the city code and all duly

enacted applicable statutes, rules, codes, and regulations.

11.01.030: SCOPE:

The provisions of this title may be applied to all violations of the city code and applicable
state codes. This title establishes an additional remedy for the City to use in achieving
compliance with its ordinances.

11.01.040: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED:
The provisions of this title shall not invalidate any other provision of this code but shall

be read in conjunction with those provisions as an additional remedy available for
enforcement of this code.

11.01.050: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT:

The City has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case for the
violation of any of its ordinances. The City may choose to file both, or one or the other.
The enactment of this administrative remedy shall in no way interfere with the City's
right to prosecute ordinance violations as criminal offenses. The remedies available to
the City under this title are cumulative, not exclusive, and the use of one remedy does
not bar the City from using other available legal remedies to enforce this title. If the City
chooses to file both civil and criminal charges for the same day of violation, no civil
penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies are available.

11.01.060: NO MANDATORY DUTY -— CIVIL LIABILITY:

It is the intent of the City Council that in establishing performance standards or i
establishing an obligation to act by a City officer or employee, these standards shall not

2


be construed as creating a mandatory duty if the officer or employee fails to perform his
or her directed duty or duties.

11.01.070: DEFINITIONS:

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this title, shall be constructed as
defined in this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in
this title and specifically stated to apply:

ABATE or ABATEMENT: any action the City may take on public or private property and
any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation, including,
but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or replacement of

property.

ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER: an order issued by the administrative law
judge. The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and
administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this title and
applicable state codes.

ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE: an attorney retained by contract to conduct
administrative appeal hearings and render decisions pursuant to the administrative appeal

procedures set forth in this title.
APPLICABLE STATE CODES: state laws that govern a specific activity, operation, or
situation, the violation of which the City is authorized to enforce.

CITY CODE or CODE: the Murray City Municipal Code and all applicable statutes,
rules, codes and regulations adopted and incorporated therein by reference through a
duly adopted ordinance or resolution of the City Council.

CITY ENGINEER: the director of the City Engineering Services Division.

CODE ENFORCEMENT LIEN: a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
administrative fees, and costs.


CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: an employee of the Community and Economic
Development Department who is employed by the City to conduct inspections and to
take such actions as may be required by the provisions of this title for the purpose of
enforcing certain prescribed provisions of the city code, and all applicable statutes,
rules, codes and regulations.

CODE ENFORCEMENT PERFORMANCE BOND: a bond posted by a responsible
person to ensure compliance with the city code, applicable state codes, a judicial action,
or an administrative code enforcement order. ,

CODE ENFORCEMENTMANAGER: the manager of the Code Enforcement Division in
the Community and Economic Development Department.

ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: any person authorized by ordinance, state law, or the
Mayor to enforce violations of the city code or applicable state codes including, but not
limited to, code enforcement officers, police officers, building inspection officials, public
works personnel, fire marshal, and fire officers.

FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust
on a property.

GOOD CAUSE: having a legally sufficient and justifiable reason for an action or
inaction, often (but not always) related to circumstances beyond a person’s control or a
compelling situation. It provides the justification needed to grant a request, excuse a
failure to act, or provide a valid defense for a behavior. Examples of good. cause
include, without limiting, an incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice;
unavailability due to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or
circumstance; if a required act causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of
nature adverse to performing required acts.

IMMINENT LIFE SAFETY HAZARD: any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.



LEGAL INTEREST. any interest that is represented by a document, such as a deed of
trust, quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien,
or other similar instrument that is recorded with the county recorder.

NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE: a document issued by the City, representing that a
property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

NOTICE OF SATISFACTION: a document or form approved by the administrative law
judge or designee, which indicates that the property has been brought into compliance
with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation; that all outstanding civil
penalties and costs have been either paid in full, or that the City has negotiated an
agreed amount, or that a subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the
outstanding debt.

NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT: a written notice that informs a responsible
person of emergency abatement actions taken by the City, the costs of those actions,
and orders payment for those costs.

NOTICE OF ITEMIZED BILL FOR COSTS: a written notice that informs a responsible
person of code violations, actions taken by the City to obtain compliance, itemizes the
City’s costs and orders payment of those costs.

NOTICE OF VIOLATION: a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that
informs a responsible person of a code violation or violations and orders them to take
certain steps to correct the violation or violations.

NUISANCE: any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist that constitutes a
threat to another person’s, or to the public's, health, safety, and welfare, or that
significantly obstructs, injures, or interferes with the reasonable or free use of property
in a neighborhood or community or by any number of persons. A public nuisance also
has the same meaning as set forth in the Utah Code and city code.

PERSON: any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager,
lessee, agent, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized
by law as the subject of rights or duties.


PROPERTY OWNER: the record owner of real property based on the county
recorder’s/assessor's records.

RESPONSIBLE PERSON: a person who is responsible for causing or maintaining a
violation of the city code or applicable state codes, including but not limited to the
property owner, agent, tenant, person with a legal interest in the real property, and or
person in possession of the real property, and shall be liable for any violation
maintained on the property. In all cases, the property owner shall be considered a
responsible person. Responsible person includes a business entity.

VEHICLE: a device in, on, or by which a person or property is or may be transported or
drawn on any public roadway.

WRITTEN: includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, sent by
facsimile, emailed, texted, or sent in another electronic or digital format.

11.01.080: SERVICE OF PROCESS:

Whenever service is required to be given under this title for enforcement purposes, the
document shall be served by any of the following methods, unless different provisions
are otherwise specifically stated to apply:

A. Personal service pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 4(d)(1) or rule
4(d)(5), except that if the person refuses to accept the document(s), service is sufficient
if the person serving them states the name of the process and offers to deliver them;

B. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the owner(s) or other
responsible person(s). Service by regular mail shall be deemed served on the third day
after the date of mailing;

C. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. If not inhabited, the
notice must also be served by regular mail. The form of the posted notice shall be
approved by the code enforcement manager;



D. Publication in a newspaper of general circulation where the identity or whereabouts
of the person to be served are unknown and cannot be ascertained through reasonable
diligence, where service is impracticable under the circumstances, or where there exists
good cause to believe that the person to be served is avoiding service of process; or

E. Where the underlying violation involves a vehicle, by affixing of the document(s) to
the vehicle alleged to have been employed in such violation.

If service complies with the requirements of this section, it shall be deemed a valid
service even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken under this title.

The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings against any other responsible person that was successfully served.

11.01.090: CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS:

Whenever a document is recorded with the county recorder as authorized or required by
this title or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the
information contained in the recorded documents.

CHAPTER 11.02

GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES

11.02.010: General Enforcement Authority
11.02.020: Adoption Of Policy And Procedures
11.02.030: Authority To Inspect

11.02.040: Authority To Issue Notices and Citations
11.02.050: False information Or Refusal Prohibited
11.02.060: Failure To Obey A Subpoena

11.02.010: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:

A. The code enforcement manager shall have the authority to administer and enforce
the city code and is authorized to adopt procedures, policies, rules or guidelines;


conduct inspections; and prepare the forms necessary to carry out the purposes of this
title. The code enforcement manager may seek assistance from city departments, other
public agencies or private contractors to resolve code violations.

B. Whenever an enforcement official finds that a violation of the city code or applicable
state codes has occurred or continues to exist, an administrative enforcement
procedure may be used as outlined in this title. Any enforcement official has the
authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions of the city code
and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue notices of
violation or citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances and violations
on public and private property, and use whatever judicial and administrative remedies
are available under the city code or applicable state codes.

11.02.020: ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES:

A. The Mayor shall establish policies and procedures for the holding of administrative
enforcement hearings, the appointment of administrative law judges, and the use of the
administrative procedures herein by enforcement officials.

B. The administrative law judge is authorized to develop policies and procedures,
consistent with this title, relating to the hearing procedures, scope of hearings, and
subpoena powers. However, any such policies and procedures shall not be inconsistent
with this ordinance or state or federal law.

11.02.030: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT; RIGHT OF ENTRY:

A. Subject to state and federal law, any enforcement official is authorized to enter upon
any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the city code or
applicable state codes are being obeyed and to make any examinations and surveys as
may be necessary in the performance of the enforcement duties. This may include the
taking of photographs, samples, or other physical evidence. All inspections, entries,
examinations, and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner based upon cause. If
the responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement official to enter the property,
the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant.

B. When necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this title,
or when an enforcement official has reasonable cause to believe that there exists upon



any property or on or in any facility located thereon any condition which violates the city
code or applicable state codes, upon presentation of property credentials, the
enforcement official may, with the consent of the property owner or other responsible
person, or pursuant to a lawfully issued warrant, enter such property or facility during
normal business hours in the case of a business or commercial use, or in the case of a
residential property or facility, during daylight hours, to inspect the same or to perform
any duty authorized by this title; provided that

1. if such property or facility is occupied, the enforcement official shall first
present credentials and demand entry; and

2. if such property or facility is unoccupied, the enforcement official shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of the property or facilities and demand entry.

3. If entry is denied, the enforcement official shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to obtain entry. If the owner or occupant denies entry, the
enforcement official is authorized to obtain an administrative search warrant or other
warrant provided by law to obtain entry. Owners, occupants or any other persons having
the charge, care or control of property or facilities shall, after proper request is made as
provided herein, promptly admit the enforcement official for the purpose of inspection
pursuant to this chapter.

C. Emergency Entry. In the event of an emergency presenting a threat to public health
or safety or the environment, and requiring immediate action by the enforcement official,
the enforcement official may enter onto any property without obtaining consent or
warrant but shall advise the owner or responsible person of such entry as soon as
practicable thereafter.

41.02.040: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS AND CITATIONS:
Subject to other applicable law, each enforcement official is authorized to issue a notice

of violation or citation whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person
has committed a violation of the city code or applicable state codes.


11.02.050: FALSE INFORMATION OR REFSUAL PROHIBITED:

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give

_ one’s name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with an enforcement official
when in the performance of the enforcement official’s duties under the provisions of this
title. A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.

11.02.060: FAILUTE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA:

It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for
an administrative enforcement hearing. A violation of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor.

CHAPTER 11.03:
ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT PROCEDURES

11.03.010: Administrative Abatement

11.03.020: Notice Of Violation

11.03.030: Failure To Bring Property Into Compliance
11.03.040: Requesting Compliance Inspections
11.03.050: Authority To Abate

11.03.060: Procedures For Abatement

11.03.070: Procedures For Recordation

11.03.080: Notice Of Compliance

11.03.090: Withholding Licenses And Permits
11.03.100: Fines

11.03.010: ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT

Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of
the city code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the
City pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter. Every violation of any provision
of the city code or applicable state code is a separate and distinct offense. Each day's
continuance of the violation is a separate and distinct offense.

10


11.03.020: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:

i A. Whenever an enforcement official determines that a violation of the city code or
applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the enforcement official may
choose to proceed under the notice of violation and administrative abatement
procedures. If this procedure is used, a notice of violation shall be issued to a
responsible person. The notice of violation shall include the following information:

1. Name of property owner;
2. Street address of violation;
3. Date violation observed;

4, All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that
violates the applicable codes;

i 5. Astatement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently
correct outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition,
removal, or other appropriate action;

6. A specific date by which the violations listed in the notice of violation must be
corrected, which date shall be not less than (7) days from the date of service;

7. The amount of the civil penalty for each violation, and a statement that civil
penalties will begin to accrue daily upon expiration of the date to correct violations until
the property is brought into compliance, up to the maximum allowed by state law;

8. An explanation that only one notice of violation is required for any twelve-
month period beginning with the initial notice of violation, and that civil penalties begin
immediately upon any subsequent violations of the notice. The responsible person may
request a hearing on the renewed violations by following the same procedure as

‘ provided for in the original notice;

i 9. An explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to
comply with the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may

11


include, but is not limited to, criminal prosecution; civil penalties; revocation of permits;
recordation of the notice of violation; withholding of future City licenses and permits; E
abatement of the violation; costs; administrative fees, including without limiting,

reinspection fees; and any other legal remedies; and

10. Procedures to request a hearing as provided in Section 11.06.030, and
consequences for failure to request a hearing.

B. The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in
Section 11.01.080.

C. More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible
person, if it encompasses different dates, or different violations.

D. Failure to include all items listed in subsection A herein shall not affect the validity of
the notice of violation. Any defect in the notice of violation may be amended fifteen (15)
calendar days prior to any administrative hearing.

E. Anotice of violation may be in letter form or any other form which adequately
conveys the information set forth in subsections 11.02.020(A)(1)-(10).

F. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from issuing warnings or courtesy notices
prior to issuing a notice of violation.

11.02.030: FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE:

A. If aresponsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance the date specified by
the enforcement official on the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the
City per violation per day, and every subsequent day of violation, according to the city
consolidated fee schedule, up to maximum amounts allowed by state law, pursuant to
section 11.03.100.

B. Payment of any civil penalty shall not excuse a failure to correct a violation or any
recurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the City as
necessary.

12


C. Failure to comply with a notice of violation is a class B misdemeanor.
11.03.040: REQUESTING COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS:

It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request
an inspection by an enforcement official when his or her property has been brought into
compliance. It is prima facie evidence that the violation remains on the property if no
inspection is requested. Civil penalties accumulate daily until the property has been
inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Reinspection fees shall be assessed if
more than one inspection is necessary.

11.03.050: AUTHORITY TO ABATE:

The enforcement official is hereby authorized, upon a showing of probable cause, to
enter upon any property or premises to abate a violation of the city code and applicable
state codes as set forth in Section 11.01.150. The enforcement official shall assess all
costs for abatement to the responsible person and may use any remedy available under
the law to collect such costs.

11.03.060: PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT:

A. Violations may be abated by City personnel or by a private contractor acting under
the direction of the City.

B. City personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a
reasonable manner to abate a violation as specified in the notice of violation or
administrative enforcement order.

C. Ifaresponsible person abates the violation before the City abates the violation
pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the enforcement
official shall nevertheless assess all costs actually incurred by the City against the
responsible person.

D. When abatement is completed, the enforcement official shall prepare a notice of
itemized bill for costs.

E. The enforcement official shall serve the notice of itemized bill for costs by registered
mail to the last known address of the responsible person. The notice shall demand full
payment within twenty days to the Murray City Treasurer.

13


F, The responsible person shall have a right to an administrative enforcement hearing

to contest the notice of itemized bill for costs. A request for such hearing shall be in i
writing and shall be filed within ten days from the date of service of the notice of

itemized bill for cost. Failure to request an administrative enforcement hearing as

provided shall constitute a waiver to such hearing and a waiver of the right to appeal.

11.03.070: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION:

For violations of titles 15 (Building and Construction), 16 (Subdivisions), and 17 (Zoning)
of the city code and any other applicable code, when a notice of violation has been
served on a responsible person, and the violation remains uncorrected after the date to
correct set forth in the notice of violation, and a request for an administrative
enforcement hearing has not been timely requested, the enforcement official shall
record the notice of violation with the county recorder’s office.

11.03.080: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE:

A. When a violation is corrected, a responsible person shall request an inspection from
the enforcement official.

B. When the enforcement official receives such request, the enforcement official shall
reinspect the property within three (3) business days to determine whether the violation
has been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final
inspections have been performed as required by applicable codes.

C. Within ten days of an inspection in which the officer finds compliance, the
enforcement official shal] serve a notice of compliance on the responsible person and
property owner in the manner provided in Section 11.01.080 if the enforcement official
determines that:

1. All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or administrative
enforcement order have been corrected;

2. All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
3. All assessed fines have been paid; and

4. All assessed administrative fees and costs have been paid.

14


D. The enforcement official shall record the notice of compliance with the county
recorder’s office if the notice of violation was recorded. Recordation of the notice of
compliance shall have the effect of canceling the recorded notice of violation.

41.03.090: WITHHOLDING LICENSES AND PERMITS:

Unless prohibited by other applicable law, the City may withhold business licenses; or
permits for any alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new
structures or signs on the property, or any permits pertaining to the use and
development of the real property or the structure until a violation is resolved. The City
may withhold permits until a notice of compliance has been issued by the enforcement
official. The City may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of
compliance or that are necessary to correct ‘serious health and safety violations for
failure to obtain a notice of compliance.

11.03.100: CIVIL FINES:
A. Assessment.

1. Any person violating any provision of the city code or applicable state law may
be subject to the assessment of civil fines for each violation, except civil fines shall not
be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same violation.

2. Interest at the default rate provided in the Utah Code shall be assessed on all
unpaid civil fines and costs, compounded monthly, until the fines and costs have been
paid in full.

3. Civil fines for violations of any provision of the city code or applicable state
code shall be assessed pursuant to the City's consolidated fee schedule.

4. {fa civil fine amount for a given violation is not expressly authorized or
required by the city consolidated fee schedule or a more specific city code provision, the
maximum fine and the default amount shall be $125.00 for the first violation and
$250.00 for a second or subsequent violation of the same nature or a continuing
violation past a deadline set by a notice of violation, not including fees, costs, and
assessments.

15


5. Civil fines will be assessed beginning on the day immediately following the i
compliance date listed on the notice of violation.

6. Civil fines accrue on a daily basis until such time as the responsible person
demonstrates that each violation has been corrected to the satisfaction of the City. As
noted in Section 11.03.050, city code, it is the responsibility of the responsible person to
request an inspection to verify compliance.

7. The City may waive the fine if corrective action is completed by the date
specified in the notice of violation or in a stipulated agreement. The City shall have the
discretion to impose fines in an amount lower than those provided for in subsections
A(3) and (4), in this section 11.03.100.

B. The failure of any person to pay civil fines assessed within the specified time may
result in the City pursuing any and all legal remedies to collect the civil fines.

C. Payment of fines shall not excuse the failure to correct the violation, nor shall it bar
further enforcement action by the City.

CHAPTER 11.04
EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

11.04.010: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:

A. Whenever the code enforcement manager in consultation with the fire marshall,
building official, city engineer, or community development director determines that an
imminent life-safety hazard exists or any safety hazard that exists that requires
immediate correction or elimination, the code enforcement manager may exercise any
or all of the following powers without prior notice to the responsible person:

1. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants and prohibit occupancy until all
repairs and any other necessary remedial actions are completed;

2. Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

16


3. Board, fence, or secure the building or site;

4. Raze and/or grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further
collapse, and remove any hazard to the general public;

5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent
life-safety hazard; or

6. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the imminent life-safety hazard,
including demolition.

B. Subject to state and federal law, an enforcement officer may, based on probable
cause, enter or otherwise gain necessary access to property without a search warrant
or court order to accomplish the above-listed acts to abate the imminent life-safety
hazard.

11.04.020: PROCEDURES:

A. The enforcement official shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or
abatement necessary to eliminate the immediacy of a hazard.

B. Costs. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the
abatement of the imminent life-safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this

title.

C. Notice of Emergency Abatement. Costs associated with the abatement of an
imminent life-safety hazard shall be itemized and provided to the responsible person in
the form of a notice of emergency abatement.

1. Within ten (10) days of completion of an abatement of an imminent life-safety
hazard, the City shall serve the responsible person with a notice of emergency
abatement.

2. The notice of emergency abatement shall describe:

17


a. the name of the property owner,

b. the address of the property,

c. the date the hazard existed,

d. a description of the hazard and any applicable code citations,
e. the date(s) on which the City took abatement action,

f. a statement explaining the work done to abate the hazard,

g. the itemized cost of such work,

h. the procedures to request a hearing as provided in section 11.06.030,
and

i. consequences for failure to request a hearing.

3. The notice of emergency abatement shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in section 11.01.080 of this title.

D. The enforcement official may also pursue any other administrative or judicial remedy
to abate any remaining violation consistent with this title.

18


CHAPTER 11.05
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS

11.05.010: Purpose

11.05.020: Administrative Citations
11.05.030: Contents Of Citation
11.05.040: Fines Assessed

11.05.010: PURPOSE:

The City Council finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for violations of the
city code and applicable state codes is by administrative citation. The procedures
established in this chapter shall be an alternative method of enforcement and in addition
to those procedures set forth in chapter 11.03 of this title.

41.05.020: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:

A. Any person violating any provision of the city code or applicable state code may be
issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official. An administrative citation
represents a determination that a violation of a city ordinance or applicable state law
has been committed. The determination is final unless contested as provided in this
title.

B. Acivil fine shall be assessed by means of the of the citation and shall be payable
directly to the City treasurer’s office.

The amount of the fine assessed for an administrative citation shall be found in the
City’s consolidated fee schedule.

C. The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain the signature of that person on the
administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses or fails to sign the
administrative citation, the failure or refusal shall not affect the validity of the citation and
subsequent proceedings. If the code enforcement officer is unable to locate the
responsible person for the violation, then the administrative citation shall be served in
the manner prescribed in Section 11.01.080.

19


D. An administrative citation may be in letter form or any other form which adequately i
conveys the information set forth in section 11.05.030.

11.05.030: CONTENTS OF CITATION:
An administrative citation shall include the following:

A. The date and location of the violations and the approximate time the violations were
observed;

B. The code sections violated and the subject matter of those sections:
C. The amount of the fine imposed for the violations;

D. An explanation as to how the fine shall be paid, the time period by which the fine
shall be paid, and the consequences of failure to pay the fine;

E. Notice of the right and the procedures to request a hearing;

F. The signature of the enforcement official and the signature of the responsible person,
if he or she can be located, as outlined in this title; and

G. Any other information deemed helpful or necessary by the enforcement official.

11.05.040: FINES ASSESSED:
A. Fines shall be due and payable immediately upon service of an administrative citation.

B. The fine for each violation listed on the administrative citation shall be as assessed pursuant
to the City’s consolidated fee schedule.

C. The maximum civil fine for any violation not listed in the consolidated fee schedule
or a more specific city code provision, shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the

first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second violation of the same code
section within twelve (12) months, five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third violation of

20


the same code section within twelve (12) months, and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each subsequent violation of the same code section within twelve (12) months. A
fourth violation of the same code section and each subsequent violation thereof, within
twelve (12) months is hereby designated to be a class B misdemeanor.

D. Late fee assessment.

1. Civil fines shall be double if paid after ten days but within twenty days of

service.

2. Civil fines shall be triple if paid after twenty days but within thirty days of

service.
E. Fines shall be paid to the Murray City treasurer.

F. Payment of any fine shall not excuse a failure to correct a violation or any
reoccurrence of the violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the City.

G. Non-Payment Of Fine. Non-payment of the fine assessed in a citation by the time
period specified in the notice may result in additional notices, a small claims court
action, referral of the matter to a collection agency, or any other remedy in law or equity.
The City has the authority to collect costs associated with such actions, including
administrative fees and service costs.

H. Interest on unpaid fines and costs shall be assessed at the default rate provided in
the Utah Code, compounded monthly, until the fines and costs have been paid in full.

CHAPTER 11.06

ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES

11.06.010: Declaration Of Purpose

11.06.020: Authority And Scope Of Hearings

41.06.030: Request For Administrative Enforcement Hearing

11.06.040: Default Hearings And Orders

11.06.050: Notification Of Administrative Enforcement Hearing
11.06.060: Appointment And Qualifications of Administrative Law Judge

21


11.06.070: Powers Of The Administrative Law Judge

11.06.080: Procedures At Administrative Enforcement Hearing
11.06.090: Failure To Attend Administrative Enforcement Hearing
11.06.4100: Administrative Enforcement Order

11.06.110: Failure To Comply With Administrative Enforcement Order
11.06.120: Appeal Of Administrative Enforcement Order

11.06.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:

The City Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for
administrative code enforcement hearings. It is the purpose and intent of the City
Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected by an
administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to participate
in the administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the
administrative action. These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to
efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly resolve issues raised in any administrative code
enforcement action.

11.06.020: AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS:

Enforcement of city code and applicable state code violations may be conducted
through the ACE Program. The administrative law judge is authorized to develop
policies and procedures, consistent with this title, relating to the hearing procedures,
scope of hearings, and subpoena powers. However, any such policies and procedures
shall not be inconsistent with this ordinance or state or federal law.

11.06.030: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
A. Aperson served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to
request a hearing to challenge the identified violations if the request is filed within

fourteen calendar days from the date of service of one of the following notices:

1. Notice of violation;

2. Administrative citation;

22


3. Notice of itemized statement for costs;
4. Notice of emergency abatement

B. The request for hearing shall be made in writing to the administrative law judge or
designee, and served on the person specified on the notice of violation, citation, notice
of itemized statement for costs, or notice of emergency abatement. The request shall

contain
1. The case number,

2. The address of the violation,

3. The mailing address of the responsible person filing the request,

4. The residential address of the responsible person filing the request, and
5. The signature of the responsible person filing the request.

C. The administrative law judge shall schedule a hearing for the next regularly
scheduled hearing date within sixty (60) calendar days of the written hearing request,
subject to the administrative law judge’s calendar, and specify a date, time, and place
for the hearing.

D. Notice of the hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in
section 11.01.080.

E. Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a
hearing and a waiver of the right to challenge the action.

F. Ifa responsible person fails to request a hearing after being issued a notice of
violation, administrative citation, notice of itemized statement for costs, or notice of
emergency abatement as provided herein, the corrective action detailed on the notice of
violation, administrative citation, notice of itemized statement for costs, or notice of
emergency abatement shall be considered the administrative enforcement order
pursuant to this title for the default hearing provisions in 11 .06.040.

23


11.06.040: DEFAULT HEARINGS AND ORDERS:

A. Adefault hearing may be requested by the City in any case that has outstanding or
unpaid civil penalties, fines, fees or costs due to the City before collection, if a hearing
on that case has not already been held.

B. At the default hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present
evidence as to why the administrative law judge should not issue an order of default.
The administrative law judge lacks jurisdiction to hear or address any other matters at a
default hearing and shall not accept any evidence not relevant to showing that good
cause exists as to why the administrative law judge should not issue an order of default.
A case in default shall be considered a judgment on the merits unless otherwise
specified by the administrative law judge.

C. Notice of a default hearing must be served according to section 11.01.080.

D. If the responsible person fails to establish good cause, the administrative law judge
shail review the notice of violation, administrative citation, notice of itemized statement
for costs, or notice of emergency abatement and any other evidence presented by the
City. If the evidence shows that the violation existed or occurred, the administrative law
judge shail enter an order consistent with the provisions of section 11.06.100. Fines and
costs shall accrue until the City provides a notice of compliance detailed in section
11.07.060.

E. Acase in default shall be considered a judgment on the merits unless otherwise
specified by the administrative law judge.

11.06.050: NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:

A. Written notice of the day, time, and place of a hearing shall be served on the
responsible person and the enforcement official by the administrative law judge, or
designee, as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing, but in no event less
than seven (7) calendar days before the date of the hearing.

24


B. The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and
policies promulgated in advance by the administrative law judge, which may include an
explanation of the hearing process, the type of evidence that will be permitted, the
length of the hearing, the issues to be addressed, and how witnesses may be
examined.

11.06.060: APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATONS OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW
JUDGE:

A. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council shall, from time to time,
appoint one or more persons to serve as administrative law judges to preside at
administrative enforcement hearings under this chapter.

B. Administrative law judges shall be persons licensed to practice law in the state of
Utah as either active or retired licensees in good standing. All administrative law judges
shall take and subscribe the constitutional oath of office. The City shall compensate
such administrative law judges.

C. An administrative law judge shall have no personal, financial, or other conflict of
interest in the matter for which the hearing is being held.

11.06.070: POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE:

A. The administrative law judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if
violations of city ordinances or applicable state laws exist, order compliance with city
ordinances and applicable state laws, and enforce compliance as provided in this title
on any matter subject to the provisions of the title.

B. The administrative law judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown
by a party to the hearing. The administrative law judge must enter on the record the
good cause on which a continuance is granted.

C. The administrative law judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign

subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the
witness for the admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the
hearing. All costs related to the subpoena, including witness fees, shall be borne by the
party requesting the subpoena. The administrative law judge may develop policies and

25


procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative code enforcement
hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related costs.

D. The administrative law judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance;
ordering compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any
remedies available under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the
right to authorize the City to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative
code enforcement order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new
hearing.

E. The administrative law judge has the authority to require a responsible person to
post a code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an
administrative code enforcement order.

11.06.080: PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:

A. Administrative enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal
rules of evidence and discovery shall not apply; however, an informal exchange of
discovery may be required. Any such request shall be in writing. Failure to request
discovery shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant information shall not be
disclosed or released unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure
and format of the administrative enforcement hearing shall follow duly adopted policies
and procedures.

B. The City shall bear the burden of proof to establish the existence of a violation of
the City Code or applicable state codes.

C. Such proof shall be established by a preponderance of the evidence.

D. Each party shal! have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present
evidence in support of his case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury
may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by
telephone or other electronic means.

E. All administrative enforcement hearings shall be open to the public and shall be
recorded as determined by the City. At the discretion of the administrative law judge,
administrative enforcement hearings may be held at the location of the violation.

26


F. Representation.

i 1. The responsible person may be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will
be representing a responsible person at a hearing, notice of the attorney's name,
address, and telephone number shall be given to the City at least seven (7) calendar
days prior to the hearing. If such notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at
the City’s request, and all costs of the continuance shall be assessed to the responsible
person.

2. The attorney representing the City may appear in any proceedings under this
title but need not appear, notwithstanding any statute or rule of court to the contrary.

G. The burden to prove any raised defenses shall be upon the party raising any such
defense.

11.06.090: FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING:

A responsible person who fails to appear at an administrative enforcement hearing shall

be deemed to have waived the right to such hearing, the adjudication of issues related

to the hearing, and the right to appeal; provided, that proper notice of the hearing has
i been given as provided in section 11.01.120.

11.06.100: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDER:

A. Aresponsible person and the City may enter into a stipulated agreement, which
shall be signed by both parties. Such agreement shall be entered as an administrative
enforcement order. Entry of such agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to an
administrative enforcement hearing and the right to appeal. If the responsible person
and the City do not enter into a stipulated agreement, the following subsections, B-L, of
this section apply.

B. After all evidence and testimony are presented, the administrative law judge shall
issue a written administrative enforcement order within thirty days that affirms or rejects
the notice of violation or citation.

C. An administrative law judge may issue an administrative enforcement order that
requires a responsible person to cease and desist from violating the city code or
i applicable state code and to take any necessary corrective action.

27


D. An administrative law judge may order the City to enter the property and abate all
violations, including the removal of animals that are tn violation of applicable code
requirements.

E. As part of an administrative enforcement order, an administrative law judge may
establish specific deadlines for the payment of fees and costs and condition the total or
partial assessment of civil fees on the responsible person’s ability to take necessary
corrective actions by the specified deadlines.

F. An administrative law judge may issue an administrative enforcement order
imposing fines in accordance with section 11.03.100. Such fines shall continue to
accrue until the responsible person complies with the administrative law judge’s
decision and corrects the violation.

G. An administrative law judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
necessary or as requested by the City to ensure compliance with an administrative
enforcement order.

H. An administrative law judge may order a responsible person to post a cash
performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative enforcement order, but
only if agreed to by the enforcement official handling the matter for the City.

|. An administrative enforcement order shall become final on the date of signing by the
administrative law judge.

J. Acopy of the administrative enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any
one of the methods listed in Section 11.01.080. When required by this title, the code
enforcement manager shall record the administrative enforcement order with the county
recorder's office.

K. After an administrative law judge has issued an administrative enforcement order,
the code enforcement manager shall monitor the matter for compliance with the
administrative enforcement order. )

28


11.06.110: | FAILURE TO COMPY WITH ORDER:

It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to fail to comply with the terms and
deadlines set forth in an administrative enforcement order. A violation of this section
shall be a class B misdemeanor.

11.06.120 APPEAL:

A. Any responsible person adversely affected by an administrative enforcement order
made in the exercise of the provisions of this title may file a petition for review in the
third district court of Salt Lake County.

B. The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty days after the
administrative enforcement order is final.

C. In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the administrative enforcement order
was arbitrary or capricious.

D. The court shall:
1. Presume that the administrative enforcement order is valid;

2. Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal; and

3. Affirm the administrative enforcement order if it is supported by evidence.

E. If appealed, the record of the proceedings including minutes, findings, orders and, if
available, a true and correct recording of the proceeding shall be transmitted to the
reviewing court within thirty days of the notice of appeal.

F. If there is a record, court review shall be limited to the record of the proceeding. The
court may not accept or consider any evidence outside such record unless that
evidence was offered to the administrative law judge and the court determines that it
was improperly excluded by the administrative law judge. The court may call witnesses
and take evidence if there is no record.

G. The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an administrative enforcement
order. The administrative enforcement order shall stand unless and until the district
court stays the administrative enforcement order pending review.

29


CHAPTER 11.07
RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION

11.07.010: Declaration Of Purpose

11.07.020: Authority

11.07.030: Procedures For Recordation

11.07.040: Service Of Notice Of Recordation

11.07.050: Failure To Request Hearing

11.07.060: Notice Of Compliance — Procedures
11.07.070: Withholding Issuance Of City Licenses and Permits
11.07.080: Cancellation Of Recorded Notice of Violation
11.07.090: Modification Of Civil Penalties

11.07.100: Failure To Pay Penalties

11.07.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:

The City Council finds that the recordation of notices of violation can be an effective

method of enforcement for violations of the city code. The procedures established in this

chapter shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy established by law that

may be pursued to address the violation of the city code or applicable state codes. i

11.07.020: AUTHORITY:

Whenever the enforcement official determines that a property or violation has not been
brought into compliance as required in this title, the enforcement official has the
authority to record the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with
the county recorder’s office.

30


11.07.030: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION:

A. Once the enforcement official has issued a notice of violation to a responsible
person, and the property remains in violation after the deadline established in the notice
of violation, and no request for an administrative hearing has been filed, the
enforcement official may record a notice of violation with the county recorder’s office.

B. If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the City's favor, the
enforcement official may record the administrative code enforcement order with the
county recorder’s office. The recordation shall include the name of the property owner,
the parcel number, the legal description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of
violation or order.

C. The recordation does not encumber the property but merely places future interested
parties on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

11.07.040: SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION:

Anotice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property
owner pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 11.01.080.

11.07.050: FAILURE TO REQUEST HEARING:

The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement
hearing when served with a notice of violation, administrative citation, notice of itemized
statement for costs, or notice of emergency abatement shall constitute a waiver of the
right to an administrative hearing and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice
of violation, administrative citation, notice of itemized statement for costs, or notice of
emergency abatement.

41.07.060: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE — PROCEDURES:
A. When a violation has been corrected, the responsible person or property owner may

request an inspection of the property from the enforcement official who issued the
notice of violation.

31


B. Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the enforcement official shall reinspect the
property as soon as practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice
of violation or the order have been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have

been issued and final inspections have been performed.

C. The enforcement official shall serve a notice of compliance to the responsible person
or property owner in the manner provided in section 11.01.080, if the enforcement
official determines that:

1. All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order have been
corrected;

2. All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

3. All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or

satisfied; and

4. The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative
fees and costs.

D. If the enforcement official denies a request to issue a notice of compliance, upon
request the enforcement official shall serve the responsible person with a written
explanation setting forth the reasons for the denial. The written explanation shall be
served by any of the methods of service listed in section 11.01.080 of this title.

E. No delay or omission on the part of the City to exercise any right or power accruing
upon any violation shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a
waiver of any such violation or acquiescence therein and such right and power may be
exercised as often as may be deemed expedient. The City’s issuing of a notice of
compliance in any instance shall not constitute continuing consent to subsequent
instances and in all cases a notice of compliance may be granted or withheld at the sole
discretion of the City. No prior notice of compliance shall affect any subsequent violation
or shall impair any of the City’s rights or remedies on said subsequent violation. Every
substantive right and every remedy conferred upon the City may be enforced and
exercised as often as may be deemed expedient.

32


41.07.070: WITHHOLDING ISSUANCE OF CITY LICENSES AND PERMITS:

Unless prohibited by other applicable law, the City may withhold business licenses; or
permits for any alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new
structures or signs on the property, or any permits pertaining to the use and
development of the real property or the structure until a violation is resolved. The City
may withhold permits until a notice of compliance has been issued by the enforcement
official. The City may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of
compliance or that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations for
failure to obtain a notice of compliance.

41.07.080: CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION:

lf a notice of violation or other record of violation has been recorded on a property, after
a notice of compliance has been issued, the enforcement official shall record the notice
of compliance with the county recorder’s office. Recordation of the notice of compliance
shall have the effect of canceling the previously recorded notice of violation or other
record of violation.

41.07.090: MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES:

Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order, the
administrative law judge may modify the civil penalties on a finding of good cause.

11.07.100: FASLURE TO PAY PENALTIES:

The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may
result in the City pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in
the law.

CHAPTER 11.08
RECOVERY OF COSTS

11.08.010: Declaration Of Purpose
11.08.020: Authority To Assess Costs
11.08.030: Notification Of Assessment of Reinspection Fees

33


11.08.040: Failure To Timely Pay Costs
11.08.050: Administrative Fees
11.08.060: Civil Violations — Injunctions
11.08.070: Performance Security

11.08.010 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:

The City Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement
officials and other City personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and
reinspecting properties throughout the City to ensure compliance with the city code or
applicable state codes.

The City Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to
recover expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, reinspection fees, filing
fees, attorney fees, administrative law judge fees, title search, and any additional actual
costs incurred by the City for each individual case. The assessment and collection of
costs shall not preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial administrative
penalties or fines for violations of the city code or applicable state codes.

11.08.020: AUTHORITY TO ASSESS COSTS:

A. Whenever actual costs are incurred by the City on a property to abate a violation or
obtain compliance with provisions of the city code or applicable state codes, the
enforcement official may assess costs against the responsible person. Such costs shall
be itemized and provided to the responsible person in the form of a notice of itemized
statement of costs.

B. The notice of itemized statement of costs shall describe the name of the property
owner, the address of the property, the date the violation was observed, the code
sections violated and description of condition of the property that violates the applicable
codes the date(s) on which the City took action to obtain compliance, a statement
explaining the work done to obtain compliance, the itemized cost of such work, the
procedures to request a hearing as provided in section 11.06.030, and consequences
for failure to request a hearing.

34


C. The notice of itemized statement of costs shall be served by one of the methods of
service listed in section 11.01.080.

D. Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property may be inspected one time
at no additional cost. Any additional inspections shall be subject to reinspection fees
pursuant to the City fee schedule.

41.08.030: NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSEMENT OF REINSPECTION FEE:

Notification of reinspection fees shall be provided on the notice of violation served on
the responsible person. Reinspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this
chapter shall not be included in any other costs assessed. The failure of any
responsible person to receive notice of the reinspection fees shall not affect the validity
of any other fees imposed under this chapter.

11.08.040: FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS:

The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in an invoice
shall result in a late fee pursuant to City policy.

11.08.050: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:

The enforcement official is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs incurred in
the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for
hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the amount
set in the City’s consolidated fee schedule.

11.08.060: CIVIL VIOLATIONS — INJUNCTIONS:
In addition to any other remedy provided under the city code or applicable state codes,
including criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the city code

or applicable state code may be enforced by injunction issued by a court of appropriate
jurisdiction upon a suit brought by the City.

35


11.08.070: PERFORMANCE BONDS OR OTHER SECURITY:

As part of any notice, order, or action, the administrative law judge has the authority to
require responsible persons to post a performance bond or other performance security
to ensure compliance with the city code, applicable state codes, or any judicial action.

If a responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the bond or other
performance security will be forfeited to the City. The bond or other performance
security will not be used to offset the other outstanding costs and fees associated with
the case.

CHAPTER 11.09
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS

11.09.010: Declaration Of Purpose

11.09.020: Procedure For Tax Liens Without A Judgment
11.09.030: Procedure For Tax Liens With A Judgment
11.09.040: Cancellation Of Code Enforcement Tax Lien

11.09.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:

The City Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the
collection of civil penalties, administrative costs, and administrative fees assessed by
the administrative code enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The City
Council further finds that collection of civil penalties, costs, and fees assessed for code
enforcement violations is important in deterring future violations and maintaining the
integrity of the City's code enforcement system. The procedures established in this
chapter shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial remedies that
may be pursued to address violations of the city code or applicable state codes.

11.09.020: PROCEDURE FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT:
A. The enforcement official shall prepare two copies of the itemized statement of costs

incurred in the removal of the violations within 10 days after completion of the work of
removing the violations.

36


B. The enforcement official shall send, by registered mail to the property owner's last
known address, a copy of the itemized statement of costs informing him or her that a
code enforcement tax lien is being recorded for the amount of actual costs of
abatement. Payment shall be due within 20 calendar days from the date of mailing.

The enforcement official shall record a code enforcement tax lien against the property
with the Salt Lake County Treasurer's Office.

C. The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive
the notice of the lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to
collect the outstanding costs of abatement.

11.09.030: PROCEDURE FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGEMENT:

Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against
the responsible person, the enforcement official may record a code enforcement tax lien
against any real property owned by the responsible person.

11.09.040: CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN:

Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the
amount is deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order,
the enforcement official shall either record a notice of satisfaction of judgment, or
provide the property owner or financial institution with the notice of satisfaction of
judgment so that it can record this notice with the county recorder's office. The notice of
satisfaction of judgment shall include the same information as provided for in the
original code enforcement tax lien. Such notice of satisfaction of judgment shall cancel
the code enforcement tax lien.

CHAPTER 11.10
RECOVERY OF COSTS AND FEES

11.10.010: Recovery Of Costs By Writ Of Execution Or Other Means

41.10.020: Recovery Of Costs By Writ Of Garnishment Or Other Means
41.10.030: Allocation Of Civil Penalties And Funds Collected

37


11.10.010: RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF EXECUTION OR OTHER MEANS:

After obtaining a judgment, the enforcement official may collect the obligation by use of
all appropriate legal means. This may include the execution on personal property owned
by the responsible person by filing a writ with the applicable court.

11.10.020: RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF GARNISHMENT OR OTHER
MEANS:

After obtaining a judgment, the enforcement official may collect the obligation from the
responsible person by use of all appropriate legal means. This may include the
garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and other income or financial assets by
filing a writ with the applicable court.

11.10.030: ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND FUNDS COLLECTED:

Civil penalties and funds collected pursuant to this title shall be deposited in the general
fund of the City. Civil penalties and funds deposited shall be appropriated and allocated
pursuant to the City’s budget process.

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on

this 9'" day of December 2025.

qe

ZOOS Te Ou, MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

A>. oh

a)

4 ms a

4x. ? *2 Pam Cotter, Chair

‘ . 1903 RS 7

ee. 8! ee “OF
ATTEST. WOR S02
nis

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

38



Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this | day of

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this \\ day of Decum 2025.

ZA -

A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION
i I hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published
according to law on the || day of , 2025.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

39
