ORDINANCE NO. 25-10

AN ORDINANCE ENACTING CHAPTER 3.60 OF THE MURRAY CITY
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO FEES FOR USE OF PRESERVING
THE MURRAY CITY THEATER AND MURRAY PARK AMPHITHEATER.

PREAMBLE

Cultural Arts provide means for exploring self-expression, cultural identity, and
promoting unity, diversity, and social change. Preserving and promoting art within the
community helps maintain a cultural heritage and historical narratives. Murray City prides
itself on its many programs and facilities which provide community members with means
to experience the cultural arts.

The Murray City Theater was originally built in 1938 by Tony Duvall and Joseph L.
Lawrence. It was run as a first-run and second-run venue for motion pictures, as well as
a venue for live entertainment. In 2015, Murray City purchased the Theater and engaged
in extensive renovations. The renovated theater will contribute to Murray City’s identity
and cultural history and will provide a space for promoting the cultural arts. However, the
Parks and Recreation Master Plan notes that there “is a need to consider revenue-
generating opportunities” to support the maintenance and future repairs for the theater.

The Murray Park Amphitheater was built by 1985. The Amphitheater underwent a
remodel in 2016-2017 which included the addition of a roof over the stage, changing
rooms and a green room. Each year it acts as a venue for an array of theater productions,
concerts, and live entertainment events. In regard to the Amphitheater, the Parks and
Recreation Master Plan contemplates the need for funding for “continued reinvestment in
ongoing repair and replacement.”

Restoring and maintaining the Murray City Theater and the Murray Park
Amphitheater has been a major focus for Murray City to promote and preserve cultural
arts. However, historic buildings come with unique challenges, and as their stewards,
Murray City has a responsibility to preserve them for future generations. The Parks and
Recreation Master Plan indicates that admission fees help generate some revenue for
this preservation, however, “[t]he revenues collected have been insufficient to offset the
facility impacts.” The Master Plan later states that add-on charges may be needed “to
obtain funding that is set aside for future asset management, repair and replacement.”

By adding a preservation fee to each ticket purchased, a dedicated fund for major
capital expenses can be created, to help with the cost of maintenance and repair, as well
’ as reducing the risk of future emergencies. This is particularly crucial during economic
downturns when budgeting for such expenses becomes more difficult. Additionally, this
approach ensures that all facility users—residents and non-residents alike—contribute to
its ongoing maintenance and improvement of the venue to ensure the benefits to the
community can continue long into the future.


Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to enact chapter 3.60 of
the Murray City Municipal Code relating to fees for use in repair, maintenance, and
preservation of the Murray City Theater and Murray Park Amphitheater.

Section 2. Enactment of Section 3.60 of the Murray City Municipal Code.
Chapter 3.60 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to Cultural Arts Preservation
Fund Fee shall be enacted to read as follows:

Chapter 3.60
CULTURAL ARTS PRESERVATION FUND FEE

3.60.010 Purpose.

The purpose of this chapter is to create a preservation fund and establish authority to
collect a preservation fund fee in connection with ticket sales at the Murray Theater and
Murray Park Amphitheater.

3.60.020 Preservation Fund Fee.

A. The Parks and Recreation Department, as part of its ticketing fees for its
venues, specifically the Murray City Theater and Murray Park Amphitheater, is
authorized to charge and collect a preservation fund fee on all paid admissions except
as otherwise provided in this section.

B. The preservation fund fee for the Murray Theater shall be as follows:

Single Ticket Price Preservation Fee Per Ticket
$0.01 - $15.00 $1.00
$15.01 or higher $2.00

C. The preservation fund fee for the Murray Park Amphitheater shall be as
follows:

Single Ticket Price Preservation Fee Per Ticket
All ticket prices $1.00

D. Fees for private rentals, shall be established by the Parks and Recreation
Director pursuant to a written schedule, provided, however, that such fees shall not be
more than necessary to preserve the condition and character of the Murray City Theater
and Murray Park Amphitheater.

E. The preservation fund fee shall not be charged with complimentary tickets,
or tickets for educational performances or free rehearsals.



F. All fees shall not be more than necessary to recoup the City’s cost for .
repair, maintenance and necessary updates to preserve the condition and character of
the Murray City Theater and Murray Park Amphitheater.

G. From time to time, the City is authorized to offer discounts and promotions
as long as the discounts and promotions are first approved in writing by the Parks and
Recreation Director, the Mayor and the Director of Finance; provided, however, that no
such discounts or promotions shail be in violation of section 10-8-2 of the Utah Code,
and that, at a minimum, all such discounts or promotions shall cover the costs of
running the discounts or promotions.

3.60.030 Preservation Fund.

A. Preservation fund fees collected shall be deposited into a special
preservation fund and used with other funding annually budgeted and appropriated, to
enhance and accelerate capital maintenance and improvement projects at these
venues. ,

B. The preservation fund shall be used solely and exclusively for capital

equipment and capital improvements for the preservation of the Murray City Theater
and Murray Park Amphitheater.

C. Expenditures from the preservation fund shall require written approval
| from the Mayor, the Finance Director, and the Parks and Recreation Director.

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 18°" day of March 2025.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

Pam Cotter, Chair

ATTEST:

Ca uy City Recorder
i Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on thigLie day of


MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED thisL\ Nay AMO — 05,

ett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

ith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance, or a summary hereof, was published

according to law on the ¢ WAY of Mav2008.

Recorder

