ORDINANCE NO. 25-36

AN ORDINANCE RELATED TO LAND USE; AMENDS, UPDATES, AND
RENAMES THE EXISTING FASHION PLACE WEST SMALL AREA
PLAN TO THE FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN AS AN
ELEMENT OF THE GENERAL PLAN.

BACKGROUND

Chapter 3 of the 2017 Murray General Plan (the “General Plan”) presents a
“framework for the future” of Murray City (the “City”) and indicates that the primary goal
of the General Plan is to “guide growth to promote prosperity and sustain a high quality
of life for those who live, work, shop, and recreate in Murray.”

In 2022, the Utah State Legislature passed House Bill 462 which requires ~
municipalities with a “Fixed Guideway Public Transit Station” which provides Rail
Service to prepare and adopt Station Area Plans for the area within a one-half mile
radius of each Fixed Guideway Public Transit Station platform. Such Station Area
Plans must promote certain objectives including increasing the availability of affordable
housing, promoting sustainable environmental conditions, enhancing access to
employment opportunities, and increasing transportation choices and connections.

The existing Fashion Place West Small Area Plan has been renamed as the
Fashion Place West Station Area Plan and, has been updated to meet the requirements
of House Bill 462 and is now ready for recommendation and adoption. The Fashion
Place West Station Area Plan was developed in coordination with City staff and outside
consultants, and the proposed amendment is in harmony with the goals and initiatives
of the General Plan.

After hearing the matter and citizen comments, the Planning Commission
forwarded to the Council a favorable recommendation.

NOW, THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Murray City Municipal Council as
follows:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend, update, and
rename the existing Fashion Place West Small Area Plan to the Fashion Place West
Station Area Plan as an element of the General Plan.

Section 2. Amendment. The attached Fashion Place West Station Area Plan is
hereby adopted as an element of the Murray City General Plan.


Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication
and filing of copy thereof in the office of the City Recorder of Murray City, Utah.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 9" day of December 2025.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

Pam Cotter, Council Chair

ATTEST:

rooke Smith, City Recorder

, 2025.

y IB’ 202 to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this | day of

MAYOR'S ACTION: Approved

DATED this \ day of Oecouslos

~

Brett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance was published according to law on thel {
day of Wecyucbyo25.

ith, City Recorder



ATTACHMENT

Fashion Place West Station Area Plan


MURRAY CITY & MIDVALE CITY, UTAH

2025


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS CONTRIBUTED TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE
FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN.

MURRAY CITY MIDVALE CITY

MAYOR BRETT A. HALES ADAM OLSON, COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR

CITY. COUNEH. WASATCH FRONT REGIONAL
COUNCIL

PAUL PICKETT BYRON HEAD

PAM COTTER

SCOTT GOODMAN UTAH TRANSIT AUTHORITY

DIANE TURNER VALARIE WILLIAMS

ADAM HOCK CONSULTANT TEAM
PLANNING COMMISSION MARK MORRIS, VODA
MICHAEL RICHARDS BRYCE BUSHMAN, VODA
PETE HRISTOU JEFF ALLS, VODA

JAKE PEHRSON LUCAS HORNS, VODA

AARON HILDRETH
PETER KLINGE

KATIE ROGERS
NED HACKER

ADOPT YY MURRAY CITY
STAFF ( ED BY MUR C
ZACHARY SMALLWOOD 16 FEBRUARY 2021
CHAD WILKERSON

ADOPTED BY MIDVALE CITY
ELVON FARRELL

16 FEBRUARY 2021

DAVID RODGERS
ADOPTED BY UTAH TRANSIT

AUTHORITY

16 FEBRUARY 2021
ADOPTED BY WASATCH FRONT

REGIONAL COUNCIL

16 FEBRUARY 2021

CONTENTS

1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

2 EXISTING CONDITIONS

3 VISION & CONCEPT PLANS
4 HOUSING

5 CONNECTIVITY

6 DESIGN GUIDELINES

7 IMPLEMENTATION

8 APPENDIX



INTRODUCTION MURRAY CITY BOUNDARY “ h8.-23 capacity to support additional housing, particularly through mixed-use infill and the
‘the Fashion Place West Station ‘Area Plan’ provides forward-looking framework for 3 aoe: 5 Fm redevelopment of underutilized industrial or commercial sites. Creating new housing
- tee choices near transit can help reduce combined housing and transportation cost
the coordinated growth and evolution of the area surrounding the Fashion Place West a) tom * - bila : ® Hebeent d "9 ‘ p di stabi
n 2 < lens, expand acc regional job centers, and 5 rt a more diverse and stable
RAX station First idenufied in the Murray City General Plan as a catalyst location for | a lurdens, expand access to regional ‘ MPPO
7 $606 8 F communit
transit-oriented development, this station area continues to represent one of Murray's - HOLLADAY ¥
most strategic opportunities to accommodate growth in a form that is walkable, mixed fom nn nb Promote sustainable environmental conditions.

tdaen,

use, connected, and economically resilient. In recent years, the Salt Lake Valley has ‘ bain 4
e I o ir quality challenges and heightened heat
experienced substantial population growth, sustained demand for housing near transit, The Salt Lake Valley continues to confront air quality challeng 9
anit ‘ . island effects, both of which are exacerbated by auto-onented land use patterns and
and significant shifts in retail patterns—including continued repositioning of large retail ss \
b. ; . mixe development patterns also
centers. In 2025, these conditions reinforce the importance of proactively guiding the large expanses of impervious surface. Compact, mixed-use bs P
‘ , ; reduce energy use and support regional climate goals. Environmental sustainability in
ulure of this district to ensure that change delivers lasting community bene‘it
this context is not only ecological—it directly enhances public health, neighborhood
Murray remains centrally positioned within the Salt Lake Valley and functions as a comfort, and long-term livability
fegional hub for healthcare, employment, commercial services, and transit access. As

of 2025, the city's home to just over 51,000 residents, reflecting steady growth over Enhance access to opportunities

the past decade. Its nearly twelve square miles contain a balanced mix of established The Fashion Place Mall and surrounding commercial corridors continue to offer

neighborhaads, emplayment centers, and: civic instititions employment and economic activity, and, in 2025, the national retail landscape is

The Fashion Place West study area—located along the city’s southwestern boundary — shifting toward mixed-use repositioning, smaller format storefronts, experience

encompasses approximately 245 acres of land between the 1-215 interchange and State based commerc al, and integration of housing and office uses. The Station Area Plan

Street. The area includes a wide range of uses and building forms: aging light industrial Figure 1.0 Map of Murray City and surrounding municipalities provides a framework for how reinvestment can enhance economic vitality while

buildings and service-oriented commercial uses; Fashion Place Mall, which continues to expanding access to services, daily needs, and jobs. By introducing new public spaces,

The goals of this Station Area Plan respond directly to community priorities and

operate as a major regional retail destination while exploring redevelopment and site neighborhood-serving commercial areas, and safe multimodal connections, the plan

statewide policy obyectives that emphasize affordability, sustainability, economic

reinvestment strategies; established multifamily residential Communities; and a stable supports a district where residents, workers, and visitors can easily move between

connection, and mobility choice. The Plan is driven by four foundational goals.

single-family neighborhood that is influenced by its proximity to the interstate system housing, employment, shopping, recreation, and transit

1, Increase the availability and affordability of housing, including moderate income
housing. Increase transportation choices and connections.
These land use conditions present both opportunities and challenges. Much of 2. Promote ‘sustainable environmental conditions.

and regional road network

Although the TRAX station is a regional asset, the surrounding multimodal network
requires improvement to fully support transit-oriented development. As of 2025,

the industrial building stock dates from the mid-20th century and may no longer 3, Enhance access to opportunities

meet contemporary operational or market needs. Large surface parking lots, wide

. In ransportation choices and connections. i $

roadways, and block patterns oriented toward automobile circulation create barriers for a.clncrmane:ransparta erces oo ons pedestrian crossings, bicycle infrastructure, sidewalk continuity, and local street
pedestrians, bicyclists, transit riders, and neighborhood-scale activity. At the same time, Increase the availability and affordability of housing. connectivity remain inconsistent. Interstate access ramps and high-speed arterial
the Fashion Place West TRAX station offers direct regional rail access to Downtown Salt streets create barriers between the station, the mall area, and nearby neighborhoods,
Lake City, the University of Utah, West Valley City, Draper, and other key destinations Since 2020, the Wasatch Front housing market has been shaped by rising construction This Plan identifies strategies to improve first- and last-mile transit access, enhance
This transit access, combined with the changing market conditions around retail and costs, population growth, and significant demand for rental and ownership units pedestrian and bicycle safety, increase connectivity across 1-215, and create streets
employment space, makes the area particularly well-positioned to transition into a near transit and employment centers. While Murray maintains a relatively balanced designed for everyday, local-scale movernent—not just vehicle throughput. Expanding
more complete and connected district over time housing stock compared to some neighboring jurisdictions, the need for moderate- mobility choices helps reduce congestion, improve public health, and support

income housing— including housing for workers, young families, older adults, and households that prefer or rely on alternatives to driving

essential employees—remains a critical pressure. The station area includes parcels with


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Executive Summary provides a brief overview of the Station Area Plan goals,
existing conditions, housing recommendations, connectivity suggestions, as well as

possible implementation measures

1.1 STATION AREA PLAN GOALS

The following goals for the study area were established through the Station Area

Planning process

+ Strengthen relationship between TRAX station and Fashion Place Mall
+ improve connectivity for the neighborhood
+ Improve overall neighborhood quality.

+ Promote transit use and active transportation.

1.2 EXISTING CONDITIONS

The first step in the process is to understand the existing conditions as well as

challenges that should be addressed within the Fashion Place West neighborhood

1.2.1 ASSETS
The Fashion Place West study area is centrally located in Murray, in close proximity to
many valuable community assets, such as the Fashion Place West TRAX station and

F Mall
ashion Place Mal oe

1.2.2 CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES Figure 1.1 Rendering of potential development scale in proximity to the Fashion Place West TRAX station. Median household income is lower in the study area ($54,974) than the City ($65,132)
Challenges in the study area could limit achieving the goals of the plan if they are not and the County ($73,627), However, the access to jobs within the study area (7.4) is far
acknowledged and addressed as part of the planning process. Challenges include 1.2.3 BARRIERS TO DEVELOPMENT higher than the County (6.4), but still below the City (8.2)

bridges and major Interstates bisecting the neighborhood and poor connectivity for Barriers to development within the study area include:

Te le sales C 3
vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists axable sales per capita in 2018 in Murray City, totaled $2.28 Billion, approximately

* Lack of City owned land that could spur private development $46,508 per resident. This is notably high in comparison to nearby cities, as shown by

Opportunities in the study area include + Current zoning regulations prohibiting density and growth including front yard the data for South Jordan ($21,907), West Valley ($ 19,880), and West Jordan ($15,990)
+ Future land use amendments to current irregular development patterns setbacks, height limits, open space requirements, and parking requirements, Additionally, per capita statistics for Salt Lake County are $25,092
+ Developing Je“erson Detention Basin as an act vated park soace + The cost of construction and lack of labor force needed to expand development
2 The metrics show that the study area could be a prime location to live and visit,
+ Using potential future expansion projects at Fashion Place Mall as an opportunity 1.2.4 ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
given the strong economy. Additionally, these metrics illustrate the need for more
for improved urban design and innovative solutions to provide increased Economic conditions in the Fashion Place West area are relatively similar to those of j ’
7 - affordable and diverse housing types as well as improved alternative tr
connectivity, Murray City and Salt Lake County as a whole. The median age in the study area is 32.5 : a ORES STSRELAHON

methods, especially between public transit and Fashion Place Mall
years, which is similar to the County and a bit younger than the City



1.2.5 HOUSING TRENDS
Median Home Values in the study area are lower ($239,474) than the City ($318,596)
and the County ($327,451). The housing and transportation costs per household

in the study area are 28 percent of household expenses compared to that of the

County at 27 percent. These statistics are an indication that the housing within the
tudy area is more moderately priced, fulfilling a need in the region that 1s difficult

10 find, while also indicating that more diverse options sould be encouraged and

considered in the neighborhood

1.2.6 CONNECTIVITY CONDITIONS

Connectivity within the study area is poor due its geographic location and lack
of streetscape amenities. Future improvements should address these issues and
improve access between residential neighborhoods, as well as to and from the TRAX

station and the Mall for all transportation types.

Current barriers include
Lack of bicycle infrastructure (with the exception of Winchester
Street)

Lack of pedestrian-friendly infrastructure at locations in, and
adjacent to, Fashion Place Mall

Multiple residential neighborhoods lacking sidewalks.

Figure 1.2 The Fashion Place West neighborhood lacks adequate infrastructure for pedestrians, The map above illustrates improvements that would improve the pedestrian experience in the
study area


complement the surroundings. 1.5 DESIGN GUIDELINES

1.4 CONNECTIVITY Design Guidelines in the Fashion Place West study area should focus on creating an

RECOMMENDATIONS inviting environment for pedestrians, and a pleasant destination for residents and
visitors. The guidelines should discuss elements such as:

Connectivity recommendations in the study

area should be guided primarily by the way + Building placement

in which pedestrians and bicyclists access + Building design

the Fashion Place West TRAX station and the + Ground floor details

mall. Additionally, vehicular travel between + Ground floor transparency

the north and south sides of the study area «Prominent entrances

should be improved. Recommendations sTreatinentorbiankwalls

incl t ds
including streetscape improvements and bridge - Articulation

reconstruction are important to the flow in the .
+ Signage design
study area with respect to vehicular traffic, public

+ Street and streetscape design relating to active transportation and vehicular travel
transit, as well as bicycle and pedestrian access

+ Parking lot design and location
Types of improvements should include

Le Updating overall active transportation
connectivity between residential
neighborhoods, the TRAX station, and

LEGEND Fashion Place Mall <<< ==

aria i ~ Ne data a! 2. Developing a parking strategy.

B® Jobs & Housing Mixed Use ¥ a A lhe he aoe Ga. he 3. Adopting a streetscape improvement

[= Trarstt-Orientec M xed Use plan to ensure future connectivity.

PP Uibary Minwe Use
[SE Established Residential

Figure 1.1 Map of subarea areas within the Fashion Place West study area. Residential use recommendations vary by subarea

1.3 HOUSING RECOMMENDATIONS

In order to maintain and protect the character of the established Fashion Place West

neighborhood as well as promote growth around it, future development should Figure 1.4 The diagram above illustrates the ideal placement of residential buildings to
; : maximize the lot while addressing the street.

be focused on providing more diverse housing options, These options and housing

recommendations should vary and be context sensitive depending on the location

Creating subareas will help to give specific recommendations on housing types that



{— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN — = ee — = . , =

1.6 STRATEGIC IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES neighborhoods, the TRAX station, and Fashion Place Mall
2. Developing parking strategy
1.6.1 INTRODUCTION

3. Adopting a streetscape improvement plan to ensure future connectivity in key

In order for the vision and objectives laid out in this plan to be realized, it will likely areas

€ where residents, City st

pe the result of a long- aff, elected official

(a) Winchester Street

well as other public entities champion the vision to ensure the revitalization of the
(b) Cottonweoad Street

Fashion Place West study area that they want to see. The strategic implementation
(c) Key intersections

(d) Fashion PI

measures in this section present the vision and illustrative plan for the study area

e Mall access points

The implementation outlines phasing and policy recommendations for the Fashion

1.6.4 POLICY UPDATES AND LAND USE AMENDMENTS

Place West study area. They are intended to provide action ite that the City, UTA

1. Create new Fashion Place West overlay zone district (FPW), This new overlay zone

UDOT, and other stakeholders would need to complete in order for the area to Fic 15 The img tion re : renee
1 consider the following

) the Fashion Place West neighbc

d neighborhe

succeed in becoming a vibrant transit—orient
| : (a) Parking
responsibilities, so that all types of connectivity in the study area are improved

(i) Include shared parking provision

RAX

1.6.2 HOUSING PRIORITIES (ii) Reduce residential parking requirements based on proximity to

1, Housing |
tation and shared parking calculations
2. Connectivit Housing priorities within the study area were determined by a combination of ) an 5} i} 1g atic
iii) Implement parking maximums
t

industry best practices, current market conditions, and desires of residents. These

3. Policy Updates and Land Use Amendments ;
priorities include (b) Consider reducing front yard setbacks from 15 feet and 25 feet, to 0 feet in

4. Phasing

order to encourage human scale development

conom Jevelooment 1. ¢ OTVICE nd amenities near housing
5. Economic Developmen _ ! . en (c) Implement maximum setback requirement
2. Providing housing for all stages of life

MARKET FORCES (d) Decrease open space

3. Creating a walkable neighborhood

quirements from 20 percent to 10 percent

In discussions with local developers during the planning process, barriers were (e) Implement Ground Floor activation recommendations
4. Increasing allowable residential densities along, and adjacent to, the . P .
2. Support re-zoning areas within the study area boundaries per recommendations

dentified that may hinder future development and revitalization of the Fasnion Place i"
Fashion Place West TRAX station, I-15, and State Street
of the General Plan Future Land Use map

West study area. Some of the concerns included
Addressing established residential ne yorhoods by creatine

5. Addressing established residential neighborhoods by creating (a) Commercial District (C-D) to Mixed-use (M-U)
1. Existing parking requirements appropriate transitions between existing residential and new, higher
i (b) Manufacturing (MFG) to Fashion Place West Overlay (FPW)
2. Existing zoning density developments

(c) Residential Neighborhood Business (R-N-B) to Fashion Place West Overlay
6. Incorporating a mix of uses into new residential developments as well as

3 k« blicly I perty FPW
zone ( )
j xist 5 dist!

tives (opportunity zone tax credits, TIF financing)

4, Lack of finar
5. Lack of walkability 1.6.3 CONNECTIVITY PRIORITIES

6. Vehicular connectivity issues

Connectivity enhancements to the Fashion Place West study area should be centered

Some of these barriers could be addressed by amending necessary land around improved traffic flow and increased comfort for pedestrians and bicyclist
documents. Improving walkability and vehicular connectivity are issues that These include the following priorities
ild be tackled first by drafting ar Jopting a olan that lays out phasing a

1. Improving overall active transportation connectivity between residential


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

1.6 Improving the

omponent of the ir

1.6.5 PHASING

ach to <

A phased app

hange to the Fashion Place West area aligns with the

limitations of the City and development community. The three phases of

redevelopment in the
document, with discuss

entities

SHORT TERM
1, Adopt streetscape ir
2. Prioritize residential
3. Perform streetscape
(a) Sidewalks
(b) Street trees
(c) Right-of-way ct
(i) Bike lanes
(ii) Vehicular lane
(d) Street lighting

4, Impr 1

5. Amend zoning ordir

MEDIUM TERM

study area are detailed in the Implementation chapter of this

sion of responsible parties and needed collaboration amongst

nprovement and connectivity plans

improvements

anges

lation and frequer vith t

yance and adopt Fashion Place V verlay zoning

nstall a traff ynal at Creek Drive J State

2. Work with Fashion Place Mall to improve internal pedestrian connectivity and

pedestrian access to mall site

3. Work with UDOT to improve pedestrian and bicycle experience at Winchester and
State Street intersection

4. Encourage the addition of structured parking at Fashion Place Mall

5. Help facilitate increased densities that includes residential component on West

side of State Street

LONG TERM
1, Reconstruction of Winchester and Cottonwood Street Bridges by UDOT

2. Re

construction of UTA Parking structure to facilitate development of a
more mixed-use destination for the City

3. Sup

ort the increase of densities and residential development types within mall

property, especially adjacent to State Street and 6400 South

4. Facilitate property transition of existing industrial properties on west side of study

Wea

Figure 1.7 Housing e We:

re housing types in close proximity to the

mrities in the Fashion Pla

t Station Area Plan include zoning

imendments

X station

FINANCIAL TOOLS AND INCENTIVES TO CONSIDER

1. Bonding

2. Future Budget Allocation

3. Public-Private Partnerships
4. ( RDA funding for housing developments, HTRZ funding
5. Grants

(a) UTA

(b) UD(

(c) Other public transit related funding



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —— _ ——= = - ———

Fashion

Place



— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN — -—— -— ——— —____— ——

1. AREA HISTORY FASHION PLACE MALL

The Fashion Place West station area hosts a well located TRAX station, various The Fashion Place Mall is centrally located within the Salt Lake valley with convenient

different types of light industrial and commercial businesses, an In 1972 and was the

ment complex access to nearby highways: The mall first opened for busines:
condo development, and approximately 200 single-family homes. The TRAX station third shopping mall in the greater Salt Lake area

$a jumping off point for shoppers, employ and residents coming and goir

. The mall has a resilient and dynamic history. It has been expanded and renovated
from around the valley. The area has been primarily occupied by light industrial and

everal times with the first expansion opening in 1974 and the most recent in 2017
single-family residences since the neighborhood was originally developed.

It has adapted to changing retail formats and economic conditions, including

For much of its history, the study area was dominated by agricultural production physical building configurations, changes in anchor tenants, and multiple changes of
Transportation corridors, both rail and auto, cut through this area early in the ownership.

development of regional transportation networks. With State Street serving as a

najor north/south connection, a majority of development in the study area was The Fashion Place Mall is a regionally important shopping center. Its central location
focused on this corridor. Aerial photography from 1964 (image right) illustrates the makes it easily accessible to a large portion of the Salt Lake Valley. Several national
types of development found in the area prior to the introduction of the Interstate and international brands have chosen to locate the'r first Utah stores in the mall
Highway system giving it an advantage over other local shopping malls. The Fashion Place Mall

remains one of the most important suburban shopping malls in the state, reporting

SIGNIFICANT ROADWAYS

near 100% occupancy in 2020. It remains an important source of jobs and tax

: study Area, 1964. With modern-day roads overlay. Prior t terstate Highway

The study area is bisected by two interstate highways, Interstate 15 and the Interstate revenue for the city and region ie \uilanienn y roads overlay. Prior to interstate Highway
onstruction, the study area was primarily agricultural with suburban development

215 beltway. The area is directly connected to |-215 via the State Street and 280 East OTHER ND USES along State Street

exits. |-15 via 1-215 can be accessed at the interchange located one mile west of the

State Street exit, immediately adjacent to the western boundary of the study area The majority of the single-unit homes in the study area were built in the 1960's with

some newer development built in the 1990's, These single-family homes and the
The Salt Lake County portion of Interstate 15 was completed in the early 1970s,

neighborhood surrounding them are established and provide a population base for
separating the study area from neighborhoods to the west, but also giving the area

- new development along the neighborhood’ key roadways
added value as centrally located area near |-15.The |-215 beltway was built in several

sections. The section immediately west of State Street opened in 1976, and the Many of the study area's industrial buildings were built in the 19805 and have

se me ly east oO » Street openec 5. The e = le 5
section immediately east of State Street opened in 1985. The entire length of 1-215 remained largely unchanged. The light industrial area north of 1-215 is a relatively

\ finished in 198 r
was fin 11 1989 new and established development. The industrial businesses south of 1-215, facing
. Cottonwood Street, are aging and some buildings are vacant. Other industrial

These two highways are both connectors and barriers for the study area. The
buildings have been renovated or refurbished and are thriving and productive.

proximity of the highways and local access points gives vehicles within the area

are also major physical barriers that limit and prevent direct physical access and

spatial continuity to adjacent neighborhoods



PUBLIC TRANSIT

The Fashion Place West TRAX station was part of the original trunk line of the

TRAX system which opened in 1999. The Mid-Jordan extension, to the Daybreak
development in South Jordan, was completed in 2011, at which point the TRAX
system was redefined as three lines: Red, Green, and Blue. Since 2011, both Red and
Blue line trains stop at the Fashton Place West station. The Red and Blue lines diverge
immediately south of the Fashion Place West station, making it the southernmost

station that serves both lines and an important transfer point between lines

The presence of the TRAX station in the center of the study area provides great
access to job centers and other destinations around the region. Unfortunately, there
has been almost no change in land use or development around the station in the
last twenty years since service began. The station's distance from the Fashion Place
Mall also proves a challenge to encouraging visitors and employees at the mall from

utilizing the TRAX system to travel to and from the Mall

Aerial view of Fashion Place West study area in 1997, prior to opening of the TRAX
light rail system, Land

ses in 2020 remain largely unchanged.

2. NEIGHBORHOOD ASSETS iw.

The Fashion Place West study area is in close
proximity to many valuable community assets
with many of those within the study area

itself. Though isolated in some ways from the
surrounding communities, the neighborhood is
in close proximity to major thoroughfares such
as State Street, Cottonwood Street, Winchester
Street, I-15, and 1-215. Connectivity for active
transportation could be improved along
Cottonwood Street and Winchester Street to

accommodate all modes of transportation

CENTRAL LOCATION

The Fashion Place West study area ts in a prime
location from a regional perspective. Even
though the neighborhood has physical barriers
that create isolation and disconnection, the
neighborhood's proximity to transportation
networks that connect to the rest of the
region gives the area great value. State Street
offers Motorists easy access to both +15 and
1-215 while TRAX offers a convenient mode of
alternative transportation. By train, riders can
reach downtown Salt Lake City in 13 minutes,
the University of Utah in 24 minutes, and the

airport within 30 minutes.

COMMUNITY RESOURCES

The Fashion Place West neighborhood and
vicinity have many valuable Community assets
Specifically, the area is home to: Grant Park; a
community park in the single-family neighborhood south of 1-215 on Travis James
Lane; Grant Elementary, Liberty Elementary, as well as Clark Cushing Senior Center

These and other community resources can be extremely attractive to prospective

hoa

Community assets within the Fashion Piace West neighborhood

residents and are valued by current residents. Other assets and amenities in the
area include the University of Utah's Midvalley Health Center, and several banking

institutions and service stations.


{ __ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN ——— —

OTHER SERVICES 3. NEIGHBORHOOD CHALLENGES

Access to food and groceries are a vital asset for any neighborhood. The Fashion tud

While there are many Community asse study

» within the Fashion Place

/est study neighborhood has access to multiple grocery stores including area, the neighborhood is also faced with its share of challenges. Some of these

Sprouts Farmers Market grocery store, Sam's Club, and WinCo Foods in nearby

hallenges ld limit the area from achieving the goals of the mmunity, if they
these challenges include bridges, major interstates, and UDOT ownershij
Other services in the area include the various clothing, beauty, home, and restaurant

TIME TO GET TO...
via TRAX

12 minutes to Sandy
23 minutes to Downtown Salt Lake City
24 minutes to Daybreak

70 minutes to Provo

ylue and desirability of the Fa f West neighborhoad is influen 90 minutes to Ogden
by the presence of a TRAX station. Having a TRAX station nearby with appropriately
zoned propert an be very attractive to future property owners, residents, busine
ore While locatior nveniently accessible by car are considered a strength by many, an
verwhelming focus on motorists has resulted in an environment that disregards the
outhern end of the valley, as well as major job centers to the north, including tate Street is lined with corridor commercial services, with a majority of it being
Jowntown Salt Lake City and the University of Utah auto-oriented within the study area. There are several fast-casual types of food
and beverage restaurants near the study area, however, more traditional ‘sit-down
FASHION PLACE MALL restaurants and coffee ps are absent from the ne

The Fashion Place Mall is a valuable and extremely productive employment center
and destination in the valley, This proximity gives the area a great opportunity t

In addition to being a areat asset for nearby residents, the Fashion Place Mall i

the largest generator of sales tax for intay City. Furthermore, the Mall is a mai

10



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN | ——— = . = _ __ _ “ on

needs of pedestrians and cyclists. This has created an unpleasant experience for those idewalks on both sides, but provides no streetscape we ieee

not inside a vehicle. Vehicle speed, road noise

iS A: 4h, “C.F 4

vell as inconsistent and unattractive amenities or bicycle infrastructure

estrian facilities haave created a munity without much in the way of quality

The study area is primarily focused around the Fashior
ire, the study area lacks

infrastructure.In addition to a lack of pedestrian infrastru

' 1 lace t TRAX station; however, the access to the ”
standard cyclist and pedestrian amenities such as street trees, well marked bicycle Ms 2 ae =
tation from the surrounding area is poor, isolating the “” ra z f
janes, seating, and well-marked frequent pedestrian crossings on major t = | Tt — 5
station from destinations and services. The TRAX station te: : /
4 Cs fe oo & hae
The study area is ke tly adjacent to the 15/215 interchange. These is also the closest station to the Fashion Place Mall, a NO BICVCLELANE Bowe] |
aK Bie? POOR PEDESTRIAN
freeways act as a major physical barrier to the area from the surrounding major employment center and sales tax generator ec ron : CONNECTIVITY AND BAPETY Py
oho Vrms te PALO LACE ROADVRAT Br ER
neighborhoods. The only connection points within the study area are by the three Unfortunately, the multi-modal access from the >
——
bridges that cross over the 1-215 freeway. These substantial barners have restricted TRAX station to the Mall is lacking. Winchester Street / 5)
seas Sener
nimum level of pedestrian access ne of ther er a qual ty experience fo mall; however, the experience as a pedestrian or cyclist
pedestrians or cyclist f traversing Winchester Street is sub-par, Additionally,
NO SIDEWALK, ACCESS AND
there y limited wayfinding signage to assist transit NO CROSSWALK, ae POOR BICYCLE AND CONNECTIVITY
he ttonwood Street bridge is in close proximity to the TRAX station, and is a ane o? _ PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
os . A oe Porat ek ? e bd riders in getting to the mal NO ACCESS TO TRAX P j nat ever von anasto -
shalloy lane bridge consisting of a single narrow sidewalk on the west side, and F
the TRAX rail on the east side, leaving virtually no room for expansion t¢ nsider he Fashion Place Mall is a major asset within the study
pedestrians or cyclists. The Winchester Street bridge is along the most direct route yea, City and the region, however, it lacks a relationshig INADEQUATE BUS WA:
STOP AMENITIES tT
to the Fashion Place Mall from the TRAX station. This bridge is wider than the and connection to the neighborhood and also lacks y
BICYOLE FACHITIES "
ternal connectivity. Within the parking that surround Vib GATES Aa MOT estan acmmeicarneand . :
the mall, there is an absence of walking paths and
valks Ld
I

Nhen pedestrians are approaching the Fashion Place
Mall on foot from State Street as well as the other
rounding roads, they are not addressed with

idewalk connections or any welcoming features. As

an example, when pedestrians cross State Street at the , 2 s
a, iain ; » ie MOST SIDEWALKS REWSS FEET WIDE, ~ -|

intersection of Winchester Street to approach the mal 4 ny NOT ENCOURAGING FOR SOCIAL TRAVEL ,
ms ;

property, they are met with a large landscaped area a “4

with no clear pedestrian routes to the Mall's entrances General condition of pedestric lest ty Area

nd cycling infrastructure around the Fashior

more . additional time to collaborate with UDOT should be accounted for
State Street isa UDOT (Utah Department of

Study area.

Transportation) controlled road. Currently, State Street's design foc solely on a prime location for retail and mixed-use development in the region, the study area

motorist capacity, to the exclusion of all human-scale design through the study area has great potential for shifting toward a more urban, walkable style of development

Cottonwood Street bridge and includes protected sidewalks on either side as well tate Street has great pc

ntial In terms of redevelopment but this redevelopment hi quire collaboration between Murray City, UDOT, the Fashion Place Mall

as Striped bike lane he State Street bridge that spans |-215 on the east side of the nas . cos . - we ai'bx “rr
f an be challenging due to long time frames and strict regulations in place by UDO UTA, the surrounding neighborhood, and other stakeholders

study area is four lanes wide (two each way) with a center median and protected

hese constraints should be considered when proposing changes to the area, and


{ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN | : —— = ——_———_— —- ~ = —

4, OPPORTUNITIES and property owners to « apitalize on this, Additionally, proximity and visibility is 5. BARRIERS TO DEVELOPMENT

important to future mmercial investors and can be seen as an attractive location
The current development patterns within the Fashion Place West area are that could see hidher profile evelooment than other areas he Fashion Place West study area is challenged with several barriers to future
erratic and leave much to be desired. However, this current lack of consistency can fevelopment that include both physical and regulatory limitations. Physical barrier
be viewed as an opportunity for the City to use the Small Area Plan process to create The Fashion Place Mall is currently surrounded by expansive surface parking can include property ownership concerns or access and connectivity obstacles
3 new identity and sense of place for the area, which can serve to encourage new lots. These parking lots are an opportunity for redevel ent of this underutlized Regulatory barriers to de pment can include ele ts suck 1, Zoning
investment by residents, businesses, and property owners land. The addition of liner buildings to create a street wall can transform the area 1 possible inter-agency road blocks. These barriers wouldn't necessarily halt the

into a walkable urban destination. Increase of density and a wider array of use planning and development process but instead, should be considered hurdles t

urrent zoning and land uses within the study area include light industrial, service
at the Fashion Place Mall site could not only bolster a shifting retail industry by future development to be considered and accounted for
ymmercial, office, single-family residential, and multi-family residential. Current
introducing more people during all hours of the day, but also shift the walkability of
regulations do not allow for increased building densities or the opportunity to ,

integrate a mix of uses. As an example, current regulations prohibit building te

the property line. Additionally, higher density residential is

permitted along The bridges that currently connect the Fashion Place West study area to the other

Winchester Street nodes as well as the rest of the city are in great need of expansion. The bridges

are narrow and lack necessary amenities for any other modes of transportation
Anticipated future amendments to land use regulations also create an
. - other than motor vehicles. Using these expansion projects as an opportunity
opportunity to prompt investment in the area. A focus on the rede

ypment

for improved urban design and innovative solutions to provide increased
connectivity is a major opportunity
of all varieties. The dual drivers of the TRAX station and Fashion Place Mall can create

hy i nificant foot traffic anc

should be leveraged together

A large, maintained detention basin adjacent to the rail line, between the line and
ravis James Lane is currently a fenced property with a small opening that was

created to allow residents to utilize the property, This detention basin offers a

great opportunity to create an activated park space, complete with amenities f

he portion of the study area south of |-215 has many underutilized, under A few distinct hurdles have been identified as possible explanations as to w y

performing, and vacant parcels. With a clear vision of what this area can become, yrowth and redevelopment in the rest of the City have outpaced that of the Fashion

Place West neighborhood
35 the ability to introduce increased densities Jer variety of uses in jing

thoroughfare- is controlled by UDOT (Utah Department of Transportation), Because
The study area is highly visible from |-215 and I-15. At present, the businesse f this, the quality of the streetscape, or surrounding properties’ development of
in this area have not established a presence that utilizes or addresses the proximity There are multipie parcels in the study area that are prime for infill development more pedestrian infrastructure is challenging. The process to working with UDOT i
t ich major route his visibility provides an opportunity to existing busine lengthy, and will need to be nsidered as development 1s along State Street

12



13

a

the opportunities for improveme

The detention basin along the rail line south of Winchester Street has only minor
community park improvements but is surrounded on all sides by chain-link fencing
This property is owned by Salt Lake County and maintained by Murray City. This
property is currently underutilized and future park improvements and removal of

fencing should be considered to fully utilize this community asset

Current zoning and land use regulations within the study area should be considered

a regulatory barrier to development. In order for development or redevelopment

to occur in the Fashion Place West neighborhood, zoning regulations: primarily
along Winchester Street and other major thoroughfares- should be reevaluated to
encourage and allow a more diverse mix of uses, as well as higher density residential
and mixed-use commercial developments. As such, design guidelines in the area will
also need to be amended. Reducing front yard setbacks, removing height limits,
reducing open space requirements, and reevaluating parking requirements

should also be considered to foster development.

Parking requirements and especially parking minimums can be a way for cities tc

regulate and ensure adequate parking for residential and commercial developments
However, strict parking requirements such as these can in fact hinder development

Expansive parkinc

for example, are often a result of parking minimur
requirements. A more modern approach to parking management is to encourage and
incentivize shared parking when possible, Uses with opposite hours of demand for
parking can share parking areas, thus reducing the amount of overall parking needed
ind better utilizing this expensive drag on development. This approach also increase

potential development opportunities and overall walkability of the area

incentivize and encourage higher quality development within the Fashion Place West

udy area, such as the creation of loan and grant programs. Additionally, working

with local entities to establish a redevelopment project area in this neighborhood

Better connectivity to the surrounding neighborhood and its assets will lay a foundation for future,

walkable development to support the TRAX station and the Fashion Place Mall destinations.

would give the City and Redevelopment Agency the capacity to use property

tax increment as a way to reimburse developers for burden costs associated with

ite conditions. Burden costs are for development costs that are unique to the

development on a particular site

Redevelopment project areas and property tax increment can be a great tool
to incentivize and fast track incremental placemaking and good urban design.
Once the entities have entered into interlocal agreements, incentive programs to
reimburse developers with tax increment can be created. In a program like this, the
developer is only reimbursed if the property value increases, protecting the City/
Agency in the event that the property doesn’t increase in value, while also getting the

type of development and use that the City wants.

Another major barrier to development in 2020 is the cost of construction and

lack of labor force needed to expand construction. Wit!) Construction Costs vastly

(Rian 7 1 construction projec sbuilds or
ut-pacing infla ) “ )

jelaying

treetscape improvements ts only servi ncrease their cost in signficant ways. The

act and set a irse of

ity should prioritize which projects may have the largest ir

construction as soon as feasible.

6. LAND USE CONDITIONS
EXISTING PHYSICAL LANDSCAPE

The Fashion Place West station area is comprised of approximately 1,000 parcels in
245 square acres. The parcels are a mix of single-family and multi-family residential,

commercial retail, manufacturing, service commercial, and off

The average parcel size of single-family residential parcels in the area is 25 acres
with some parcels as small as .18 acres, and as large as 1.5 acres, The multi-family
commercial retail, service commercial, and office parcels vary greatly in size, from

acres to 12 acres

CURRENT LAND USES

Overall the Fashion Place West neighborhood has a mix of uses that fall into three
general categories: light industrial, commercial, and residential. These three use types
are segregated from each other within the area between the eastern, middle, and

western areas

The eastern most segment of the study area is primarily a Commercial use area. It
includes the parcels along State Street and 6400 South and portions of the southern

and western sides of the mall site. This is the smallest section by land area, Four


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

parcels in this section are zoned for residential use and two parcels are zoned for

general office use

The middle seqment is primarily occupied by residential uses and is the largest

tion by land area. Most of this segment is made up of two single family
neighborhoods, one north and one south of |-215, but also includes two multi-family
developments and a few neighborhood business uses. The area includes a large

detention basin as well as a number of large residential lots with undeveloped land

The western segment of the project area is predominately made up of light industrial
uses. It is located along I-15, Cottonwood Street, and the TRAX lines. This is the second

largest section by land area and includes some vacant/underutilized parcels

CURRENT ZONING

The parcels within Fashion Place West study area boundary are designated as one of

the following six zones

(a) R-1-8 Low Density Single Family
(b) R-M-15 Medium Density Multiple Family

(c) R-N-B Residential Neighborhood Business

tate Street and the capacity required to serve the population can prevent

uture

pedestrian and active transportation improvements from taking place

14

(d) C-D Commercial Development
(e) M-G Manufacturing General

(f) G-O General Office

Zoning around the Fashion Place West TRAX station does not address the station itself
in its zoning designations, Murray City does possess a Transit-Oriented- Development
(TOD) zoning designation. However, this designation has only been applied to the

area around the Murray North TRAX station

While Murtay’s TOD zone addresses adjacent transit with increased height allowances
and by expanding allowable uses, this zone still has requirements for parking

minimums, open space, and front yard setbacks. Requirements such as these typically
prohibit land owners from maximizing the densities allowed by the zoning ordinance,

and can also prohibit pedestrian and transit-oriented development to be established

In order for a TOD zone to be effective, it must include specific elements, while also
avoiding others. Parking minimums can lead to vast surface parking lots where stall
counts do not reflect the adjacent public transit. Excessive open space and front
setback requirements, as is the case within Murray's TOD zone, reduce transit-oriented
densities and forbid new construction from being built to the front property line, thus

minimizing the creation of a walkable urban environment

These limitations within current zoning regulations should be considered and

addressed within the recommendations in the Small Area Plan

CURRENT DESIGN STANDARDS

With the exception of two zones within the Murray City boundaries, zone districts in

the city have very few specific design requirements. Specifically, the land use zone

nion Place West neignborhood lack sufficient de

that occupy the

ndard'

This gives the City very little control as to the aesthetic outcome of the neighborhood

character

Common design standards in commercial and mixed-use zones, which should be

considered for future zoning regulations, inc
. Density
. Height
. Setbacks/ Build-To line

+ — Landscaping

. Building Materials

* — Building Colors

* Building Form and massing variation
+ — Qutdoor lighting

. Door and window location
Residential, commercial, office, and manufacturing zaned properties have specifi

height and setback requirements. Other general requirements within these zones

include
. )'-10' of landscaped area
. Sprinkler Installation

+ Fencing guidelines

Zoning amendments in applicable zones should be considered to include more

pecific design guidelines in an effort to create anc

quality neighborhood center around the TRAX station

he Residential Neighborhood Business District zone does have design quidelines
that are adequate. These guidelines include general landscape requirements, and

design considerations for building massing, color and materials. All designs in this

The Fashion Place Mall's parking demands and tenant's parking requirements could

impede future infill on the site



— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN Se = = = — =, = . = : = =

ssion. This zone and its regulations

zone must be approved by the Planning Comr

ESTABLISHED RESIDENTIAL

set a good example and baseline for future amendments to the zoni udinance h
me AEDS Si ee } MMS 8 nts to the zoning ordinance he single-unit neighborhoods within the Fashion Place West study area are well

established and are an asset of great value to the City. These neighborhoods should

UNDERUTILIZED PROPERTIES

af

developed

here are several underdeveloped parcels within the study area. Underdeveloped parcels exist within the neighborhoods. Using development along Winchester to

parcels can include vacant property, properties that are largely occupied by parking, H “ é mes se buffer
oT Ne BG , aes
pty

11s NeiIghborhood can also create a wider range of housing choice within the
and partially developed properties. Underutilized or underdeveloped parcels create pahbomeod

opportunities for new development, While these parcels may not currently be

contributing at their maximum potential, they can create opportunities for future

7. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

POPULATION TRENDS

UTA owns several of the area's underutilized parcels including a number of vacant

Utah's population ts projected to increase from approximately 3 Million in 2015 to
and underdeveloped parcels on the south side of Winchester Street as well as the
8 Million in 2065. This represents an increase of 2.8 Million people with an annual
expansive surface parking lots east of the TRAX station
average rate change of 1.3 percent. Although the rate of growth in population will

decelerate over the next 50 years, it is still projected to exceed national growth rates

alt Lake County owns four undeveloped parcels along West Travis James Lane, that

are currently used as a detention basin with minor park improvernents. Removal of icinit
: fi several factors will contribute to increased population in the state. Utah's fertility rate
the fence to create an inviting gathering space would be a better use of this space
rojected to continue the existing trend in a slow decline. By 2065, life expectancy
that would create a destination and generate more activity in the area that incorporates residential components

in Utah is projected to be 86.3 for women and 85 2 for men. Net migration accounts

Various other underutilized and undeveloped properties exist in the study area with TRANSIT-ORIENTED MIXED-USE for one-third of the cumulative population increase to 2065. Projections show the
along Winchester and Cottonwood ontributions of natural increase and net migration converging over time
Over time the area adjacent to the TRAX station will become even more valuable

varying ownership interests. As the pre

perties

Streets transition in ownership over time, underdeveloped properties should be

given its proximity to transit service. New development will be more dense than alt Lake County currently has 1,181,471 residents and is projected to remain the
encouraged to intensify in use
urrent land uses and will be primarily residential uses and commercial uses most populous county in the state, reaching nearly 1.7 million people by 2065
urface parking, particularly surround the Fashion Place Mall, can be seen as a future including service related uses, restaurants, a5 well as other types of uses that support projecting to add nearly 600,000 new residents, which will be 21 percent of the
development opportunity. As the economics of development change in the area and are supported by the proximity to the TRAX station total state population growth. The median age within Salt Lake County ts 32.9 and ts

the costs to structure parking and build higher may change the feasibility of urban projected to increase to 38.6 by 2040.

development on the mall property URBAN MIXED-USE .
In 2019 the school age population (aged 5-17) was estimated to be 231,525. By 2040
The area along State Street including the Fashion Place Mall will also become more

SUBAREAS that population is projected to increase by 1,208 students to 232,733. This number

dense over time. With State Street accommodating such a large volume of cars each

J€ population will grow at a slower rate than the overall

illustrates that the schoo
day, as well as the proximity to both |-15 and [-215, there will be a great demand for

JOBS AND HOUSING MIXED-USE ‘ population, potentially putting less pressure on school districts than what the

this area to transition to a more urban style of development. Properties currently

A potential new jobs and housing mixed-use subarea encompasses what is currently population is Currently.
adjacent to State Street are ripe for redevelopment, where taller buildings could

the light industrial areas on the north and south ends of the study area adjacent to

be constructed to address State Street to create a more urban environment Future The total number of households within the County is estimated to reach 552,022 in

1-15. In the long term, as the valley increases in population, this area will increase in

land uses should include housing, restaurants, services, and office. These types o 2040, which is an increase of 132,523 households compared to 419,499 in 2020
value and eventually transition from its current land uses to a densified jobs center

development could support the higher costs of taller construction methods

15


Murray City as a whole has a population of 50,433. This places Murray toward the and typically high median household sizes (large families with children

lower end of the spectrum compared to neighboring cities such as Taylorsville, Sandy, who are not employed). Areas which have higher ratios are typically reflective of
Millcreek, and Midvale. employment centers and/or areas with lower median household sizes

Murray City’s population is projected to reach 67,668 residents by 2040. [he This large ratio may be due to the fact that the Fashion Place Mall is within the study
Fashion Place West study area has a population of 1,714 residents in .55 square miles area. Cities further south show lower ratios as they generally are more representative
Salt Lake County has a population of approximately 1,150,000 residents, with an of bedroom communities than employment centers.

anticipated increase of more than 500,000 residents in the next 25- 30 years. With

the population throughout the state growing so rapidly, there is an ever-increasing MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME

pressure for the development of more residential units. This development pressure is Median household income in 2023 in the Fashion Place West study area is $103,742
and will continue to be felt across the state, in Murray, and in the Fashion Place West per year, which is higher than Murray as a whole ($87,864/year) and more than the
study area Salt Lake County average of $94,658/year.

MEDIAN AGE A higher median income in this area can indicate igher educational attainment

Murray has a median age of 38.2: which is significantly higher than that of the of residents of the study area. Creating connections with opportunities for

Fashion Place West study area (33.4) and the county-wide average of 33.8 according educational programs, as well as improved connectivity to transit service can have a

to 2023 census data. The 33.4 year indicator in the study area is similar to those of Jarge Impact on neighborhood llvabllity.and opportunity access
neighboring cities but the City’s 38.2 year indicator is much higher than surrounding HOUSING TRENDS
cities,

HOUSING CONDITIONS

Median age data is closely followed by developers and can impact housing choices

f 4) 777 Is th ki
and potential GaVeIORIenE Gipes within the City Of the approximately 245 acres and parcels that make up the Fashion Place West

Project Area, 577 ot 74% of those are residential land uses. The remaining 200 parcels -
EMPLOYMENT AND JOBS rake up the other 26% of the parcels and are occupied by non-residential land uses.

By 2040, total employment in Salt Lake County is projected to reach 1,239,908, an HOUSING STOCK

increase of 269,103 employees, according to the Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute
The housing stock within the Fashion Place West neighborhood is aging. A majority Map of existing zoning designations. Future zoning changes should be based on achieving the goals for the future
of the Fashion Place West area.

More central neighborhoods near employment centers have higher ‘job access’ scores of the existing homes were built in the 1960s and 1970s. Most of the single-family

than others. In the case of Murray compared with the study area and the County, the homes were built in the 1960s and are single story structures with various facade sta ilainieaeieaiiamneaaiins ie

study area has high access to jobs with a score of 6.1, Murray City has a score of 7.1 materials including brick, wood siding and stucco. The most recent single family Overall, the housing stock within the Fashion Place West neighborhood lacks
(out of 10), and Salt Lake County has a score of 5.6 development was built in the mid 1990s. This development consists of predominately

diversity. The area is primarily market rate single-family homes with one apartment

two-story homes with stucco facades. develo)
pment, and one condominium development
4,757 of those employees are in the Fashion Place West study area, which represents ®

2.77 employees per resident, a ratio far larger than the County and surrounding There are two multi-family developments within the project area as well. The South 67 Current zoning in the area permits accessory dwelling units (ADUs) as an allowable
Cities, This metric refers to the number of employees in the community per resident Condo development was built in the 1970s and is an individually owned townhome use, Accessory dwelling units are defined as a secondary unit within or on the same
Cities with low ratios are reflective of limited jobs, bedroom communities, type development. The Braewood Apartments is a five-building appartment complex,

parcel as an owner occupied single-family home. Examples include apartments over

16

i



— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —- = —— a —— : : a 5

m 3% reflected hign housenold sizes, primarily reflecting an influx of families into rapidly on housing, slightly below the county-wide level of 27 percent. Most nearby
developing areas. Future trends will most likely show a continuing decline of median surrounding cities show percentages similar to Murray, while communities to the
Parks and Office household size in developed, aging areas, while new growth areas will represent south reflect higher percentages as housing costs are notably higher

Open Space 2% higher household sizes

5%

Costs spent on transportation represent 21 percent of incor ‘or Murray residents,

HOME VALUES similar to the 23 percent shown for the County. Immediately surrounding cities
F reflect similar amounts, while uth valley communities are spending a reduced
Housing prices in Murray have increased notably over the past several years,

Commercial/
Retail —-
19%

- portion of their income on transportation (near 15 to 16 percent), On average,
commensurate with trends experienced along the greater Wasatch Front, Values for

Residential single-family, multi-family and vacant land have all appreciated

Murray residents spend roughly $13,267 per year on transportation cc

48% * _ . 5 New development should take into consideration the proximity of transportation
The median residential property value in Murray, as of 2023, was $470,000

study area has a median home value lower than the City

The Fashion Place We
F ss. ¥ . ompetitive range of total spending
average at $298,675, with Salt Lake County shown at roughly $484,500. Higher value

are reflected in Midvale, West Jordan, Sandy, ana Millcreek, while lower values

HOUSING AND TRANSPORTATION INDEX
relation to Murray) are exhibited by West Valley, Kearns, and Taylorsville
By taking into account the cost of housing as well as the cost of transportation, the

Industria

22% Over the past decade, across the nation, homes in the most walkable neighborhoods CNT H4T Index (Center for Neighborhood Technology Housing and Transportation
were also the ones that appreciated the fastest. In two-thirds of large metro areas Affordability Index) provides a more comprehensive understanding of the
Existing land use by percentage within study area, 2025 walkable neighborhoods have higher home values than cat- dependent ones affordability of place
garages, tiny homes, or basement apartments. Allowing and encouraging ADUs he walkability prermiury) in Salt Lake County (the difference in the average value of Dividing these costs by the representative income illustrates the cost burden of
would create the opportunity to provide more diverse housing options to residents homes in walkable neighborhoods compared to the average value of homes in car housing and transportation expenses placed on a typical household
tattordable prices dependent neighborhoods) was 32% higher in 2019
While housing alone is traditionally deemed affordable when consuming no more
Areas with a diversity of ng choices are more stable and have more to offer tc Current trends across the country also show that homes in walkable areas also than 30% of income, the H+T Index incorporates transportation costs—usually a
residents, A housing: diverse area would have a broad range of housing types, rental gain value at a faster rate than those in car-dependent areas. | 01 example, in household's second-largest expense—to show that location-efficient places can be
and ownership options, at varying price levels that would include many options Salt Lake County walkable homes increase in value 19% faster than those of car nore livable and affordabk

dependent homes

HOUSEHOLD SIZE According to the H+4T Index, Murray is similar to Salt Lake County across key housing
Median household size in Murray and the Fashior ce West study area specifically For the Fashion Place Mall study area, these statistics show that due to the TRAX and transportation indicators such annual transportation costs, both averaging

are both reported to be an average of 2.57 which is slightly less than the county-wide station and proximity of this area to the Fashion Place Mall, as the study area approximately $13,000 annually, illustrating that both jurisdictions having high

- - 44, ‘

om the rest of the county |

s to a variety of jot owever, Mu

y ailter

average of 3. Neighboring cities like Taylorsville (3.0) South Lake City (2.7) also have a transitions to a more walkable and well-connected neighborhood, home values may

slightly higher average be higher and may increase faster than other areas in the valley that are more car variety of ways

dependent

The household size in Murray has remained largely unchanged in the last ten years, Most notable is that Murray's Compact Neighborhood score is 6.1 compared to a

es in the central portion of Salt Lake County INCOME SPENT ON HOUSING AND TRANSPORTATION score of 2.7 for Salt Lake County. This score represents the density and walkability of

an area, The median household income in Murray and the Fashion Place West study

reflecting a trend similar to other

Conversely, ateas along the western and southern boundaries of the County have For housing costs, Murray households spend 24 percent of monthly income

17


area is much lower than the county average. to nearby cities, as shown by the figures for South Jordan

(21,907), West Valley ($19,880), West Jordan ($15,990), and
INCOME REMAINING AFTER HOUSING AND TRANSPORTATION South Salt Lake ($74,167). Additionally, per capita statistics for

Income “remaining” indicates adjustments made to median household income for Salt Lake County are shown at taxable retail sales of $25,092

transportation and housing. This metric indicates potential spending income for

; The data points show that Murray is not plagued with sales
residents in these areas. Remaining income after housing and transportation costs is

; “ leakage of any kind, due to the success of the Fashion Place
similar between Murray and the County, with Murray at 55 percent and the County at

Mall and surrounding retail

50%.

Also of note is the proximity to employment, which has become more of a CURRENT RETAIL CONDITIONS

consideration for new development, as some planners and developers have While retail is an ever-changing landscape, certain

attempted to reduce the impact on roadways from new development by locating in sectors are performing well, while others are not. Highly

areas with high job concentrations, and by catering to those who want to improve performing sectors include grocery stores, automotive

quality of life by reducing commute times. The Fashion Place West study area services, restaurants, experiential retail, and retail

specifically is in an ideal location given its proximity to the Fashion Place Mall .75 miles distribution. These sectors have remained relevant

away. by adapting their business models, Changes such as
shrinking physical space, expanding distribution, increasing

AFFORDABILITY INDEX convenience with pick-up or delivery service, as well as

The ‘affordability index” highlights the relationshio between median househola decreasing table space, are all tools retail outlets are using to

incomes and median property values. The higher the ratio, the less “affordable” succeed in Utah

the real estate becomes to the median household. Ratios decline as incomes

; 7 Poorly performing retail outlets include clothing stores, toy
increase (assuming constant values), or increase as values accelerate at rates faster

: stores, jewelry stores, and department stores, These store » nia & : ane :

than incomes. Murray City shows an index reading of 4.27, fairly similar to the county A rap ; ho ; 4 ' ; j ee 84
types as well as stores that don't have an online s in be 3 Mt : .

yp pping oe ; é . £5 stay ai BS Ba

Map of underutilized properties in the Fashion Place West Study Area

wide figure of 4.23. South Salt Lake reflects an abnormally high number due to very

resence are also strugglin
low incomes, while Murray, Herriman, and South Jordan show ratios below that of e song

Murray In Utah, potential new retailers use various different metrics

when choosing a site to locate a business, These metrics In the case of the Fashion Place Mall, the parcels that surround the mall and face State

On a larger, regional level, Salt Lake County ts still considered more “affordable” than . j ‘
vi include; strong traffic counts, multiple points of access, increasing nearby Street are currently occupied by surface parking. These are ideal locations for the

populations, strong daytime populations, and destination locations. Retailers construction of liner buildings. To meet the needs and desires of residents, consumers,
RETAIL TRENDS are also increasingly aware of more detailed demographic data and developers, these liner buildings could house a number of uses ncluding office,

other competitive cities, including Portland, Denver, Las Vegas, Phoenix, and others.

residential, and restaurants. These uses would support each other- creating a stronger
TAXABLE SALES PER CAPITA Consumers and cities increasingly want retail and services within walking distance of daytime and nighttime population, better supporting existing retail

Taxable sales per capita reflect an important statistic regarding the health of the local their homes. This fact means that the Fashion Place Mall and the areas surrounding it

retail economy. For Murray City, taxable total sales in 2018 summed to roughly $2.28 may transition to meet this need. In order for this happen, a variety of uses including

Billion, of, approximately $46,508 per resident. This is notably high in comparison housing and office are needed in the mmediate proximity.

18



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN : — —= = i _ . = =— a -

9. TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS « JeHerson Street; and uth. From 6500 South to the southern edge of the study area, the sidewalk further
ROADWAY CONDITIONS Bae

ve narrows to seven feet wide

Besides these left turn lanes, a central two-way left-turn lane services individual According to UDOT's 2016 statewide estimates , Cottonwood Street experiences an

MAJOR STREETS

driveways along Winchester Street between Travis James Lane and 150 feet east of

AADT volume of 2,100 vehicles per day across the study area
he study area is defined by one arterial road, State Street, and three major collector Clay Park Drive. The roadway widens to a four-lane-cross-section east of State Street

A signalized train crossing exists 230 feet south of the intersection with Winchester

streets, Winchester Street/6400 South, Cottonwood Street, South Fashion Boulevard up to the eastern edge of the study area

and 1-15/21 for the TRAX Red Line train

here is on-street parking along Winchester Street from the astern edge of the

1 Street STATE STREET

WINCHESTER STREET/ 6400 SOUTH study area to 100 feet west of Cotton

Winchester Street/6400 South is a three-lane-cross-section arterial between the According to UDOT's 2016 statewide estimates , Winchester Street experiences an State Street/US-89 is a six-lane, 90-foot wide major arterial across the y afea
astern edge of the study area and State Street. Left turn lanes are present at the sa annual dailvita re iumeof Si vehicles perday batween the that widens with turn bays at major intersections. There are left-turn bays on the
etic ) ] thbounc 1d southbound ap hes at the intersections with 6100 South
ctions of western edge of the study area and State Street, and it experiences an AADT volume northbound and bound apr res at th ny
. reek Drive d 67% ith. Two southt nd left turn lanes and one northbound
 Cotteiuiaed sient of 25,000 vehicles per day between State Street and the eastern edge of the study K Drive, and ¢ dagpal Manes a
left turn lane exist at the intersection with 6400 South, along with a channelized right

mone moh turn lane on the southern approach. Two southbound left turn lanes also exist at

favis Jame Ne,

© are bicycle sharrows on both sides of Winchester Street from the western edge the intersection with the 1-215 eastbound ramps, along with a right turn lane on the

f the study area to the intersection with Cottonwood Street. From Cottonwood southern leg, 280 feet south of the |-215 ramps, a left turn lane serves the Supersonic

along Winchester Street from Malstrom Lane to 100 feet east of Clay Park Drive

Sidewalks exist on both sides of Winchester Street throughout the study area. All

sidewalks are four fee de, except for a seven-fe wide portion between State

Street and South Fashion Boulevard

COTTONWOOD STREET

ottonwood Street is confiqured as a two-lane cross sec ug t the

study area, with additional right and left turn bays present at the northbound and

t turn lane also

southbound approaches to

exist

northbound approach to 6100 South. A sidewalk narrower than six-feet wide spans

the western edge of the roadway from the northern edge of the study area to the

southern end of the |-215 overpass bridge. From this southern edge of the bridge Photo of westbe treet

the sidewalk widens to ten feet wide until the intersection with Winchester Street

Map showing existing traffic counts on major road where the sidewalk narrows to eight feet wide until the intersection with 6500

Express Car Wash on the western side of State Street. The intersection with the Sams

19 ry


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

State Street across the study area SOUTH MALSTROM LANE

According to UDOT’s 2016 statewide estimates , State Street experiences an AADT South Malstrom Lane is a 25-foot wide unmarked neighborhood roadway with

volume of 36,000 vehicles per day between the northern edge of the study area and its northernmost point at Winchester Street that narrows to 15 feet wide at the

Winchester Street, and it experiences an average annual daily traffic volume of 30,000 intersection with Caleb Place. The only sidewalk is on the eastern side of the segment

vehicles per day between Winchester Street and the southern edge of the study area from the southern edge of the roadway to 380 feet south of Caleb Place

SOUTH FASHION BOULEVARD aca weer

South Fashion Boulevard has a 60-foot five-lane cross section (two through lanes and 400 West turns off 6500 South and extends to the southern edge of the study area. It

one center left turn lane) through the study area. At the intersection with Winchester \s a 30-foot wide unmarked roadway that traverses an industrial zone. Sidewalks exist

Street, additional left turn and right turn lanes are also present for the southbound on both sides of 400 West throughout the study area

approach. Sidewalks exist on both sides of South Fashion Boulevard with widths of

Ppr 6790 SOUTH

four to six feet. However, most of these sidewalks have little or no buffer zone/park

strip between the pedestrian zone and adjacent travel lanes. 6790 South is a 30-foot wide neighborhood collector roadway with four-foot
sidewalks on both sides. 6790 South connects neighborhood access roads as far west

According to UDOT's 2016 statewide estimates South Fashion Boulevard experiences as Jefferson Street to the State Street arterial. Sidewalks extend from S 70 West to

an AADT traffic volume of 12,00 vehicles per day across the study area State Street on both sides of the roadway. There are no sidewalks along 6790 South

from S 70 West to the western edge of the study area.

MINOR STREETS

The map above illustrates and scores the quality and existence of crosswalks in the study area. The JEFFERSON STREET ADDITIONAL INSIGHTS

quality of the crossing experience is scored by various factors listed above
Jefferson Street is a north-south neighborhood roadway extending from Winchester According to the 2017 Murray General Plan, there is concern about traffic on
Street on the north to the southern edge of the study area. It is an unmarked 30-foot neighborhood roadways originating from heavily congested major streets

Club driveway has two left turn lanes on the northern approach of State Street, as

roadway with no sidewalks.

well as one left turn lane on the southern approach According to the UDOT Numetric collision database there were 493 recorded

™ collisions in the study area from 2017 ~ 2019, with 34 of those resulting in injuries and

Sidewalks exist on both sides of State Street throughout the study area, Along the none with fatalities. 242 of those collisions were considered intersection related. The
roadway between 6100 South and 6400 South, the sidewalks are seven feet wide on Creek Drive connects the northern neighborhood in the study area to State Street. It largest clustering of collisions occurred at the intersection of Winchester Street and
the eastern side of State Street and five feet wide on the western side. Between the is an unmarked 40-foot roadway with no sidewalks. State Street. This intersection also saw the most injury crashes (7), bicycle crashes (3)
intersection with 6400 South, the sidewalks on the eastern side of State Street remain

and pedestrian crashes (2)
at seven feet wide while the sidewalks on the western side widen to eight feet wide 6100 SOUTH
Across the bridge over I-215, the sidewalks on both sides of State Street narrow to 6100 South is a 30-foot wide two-lane collector road extending from its westernmost The intersection of State Street and Creek Drive had 14 collisions, 11 of which were
five fect in.width, From: the southern edge of the 715 budge te 6/90 Soutt, the origin with 350 West to the eastern edge of the study area. The roadway extends to 50 turning left. Most of these collisions occurred during daylight hours in dry weather
sidewalks widen to six feet wide on both sides of State Street feet wide at the signalized intersection with State Street to accommodate a left turn conditions
bay and a right turn bay. Five-foot sidewalks exist on both sides of 6100 South for the
Route 201, one of UTA’s most utilized bus routes, runs along State Street across the : SUMMARY
: ; entirety of the study area. High-visibility crosswalks provide school crossings on the
study area with stops at the intersections with 6100 South, Creek Drive, the Sam's westein aiid southern lege oF the Witersaction with Cadar Streat + According to the data, State Street has the highest AADT within the study area

Club Driveway, and 6790 South. UTA’s future Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) will also run along



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

+ The intersection of Winchester and State Street has the highest concentration of
collisions within the study area.

BICYCLE CONNECTIVITY

The only bicycle infrastructure in the study area is on Winchester Street. From the
western edge of the study area to Cottonwood Street, bicycle sharrows exist on both
sides of the roadways, giving way to dedicated bike lanes up until 100 feet east of
Jefferson Street. From here, a parking lane runs along the curb in place of the bke
Jane. There are no signs indicating this curbside transition between bike lane and
parking lane. Sharrows resume along Winchester Street until bike lanes again take
over at Malstrom Lane. These dedicated bike lanes continue from Malstrom Lane to
100 feet east of Clay Park Drive, where sharrows resume up to the intersection with

State Street.

According to the UDOT Numetric collision database there were 10 recorded bicycle
related collisions within the study area from 2017-2019. Seven of these collisions

resulted in injuries, and three of these collisions occurred at the intersection of

Winchester and State Streets with drivers often noting that they were unaware of the san A E Ppp aus br ois Af.
Strava bicycle heatmap showing bicycle lane activity in the study area.
PIESS tice of bicycles Map of existing and proposed bicycle connectivity in the study area
fragmented, and transitions are not well marked
According to Strava bicycle data, Winchester Street and Cottonwood Street see the The intersection of Winchester Street and State Street sees the most bicycle- TRAX STATION CONNECTIVITY
most bicycle activity of the study area, as shown in the corresponding map related crashes of any intersection in the study area. The bicycle infrastructure The Fashion Place West TRAX station is the southernmost TRAX station where the
from Winchester Street is not carried into the intersection with State Street Blue line and the Red line run concurrently. The Red Line connects to Daybreak
The Wasatch Front Regional Council's (WFRC) Regional Transportation Plan and ;
- - - + State Street has no bicycle infrastructure despite it being an important vehicular Parkway in South Jordan and operates every 15 minutes from 5:15am to 11:45pm
the Murray City General Plan outline several bicycle infrastructure improvements
, . connection for the area, It is possible that cyclists do not feel safe to travel on on weekdays and every 20 minutes from 6:00am- 11:30pm on weekends. The Blue
for the study area, as discussed under ‘Local and Regional Planning Context’ below. 3;
; State Street from this high vehicular traffic, discouraging bicycle access to/from Line connects to Draper Town Center and operates every 15 minutes from 5:00am
The Murray General Plan details current and future/desired bicycle infrastructure as -
the Fashion Place Mall 12:00am on weekdays and every 20 minutes from 5:45am-11:30pm on weekends.

shown in the corresponding ma
RENEE + Cottonwood Street has a high volume of bicycles yet has no bicycle

According to the 2017 Murray General Plan, citizens would like to bike more but do infrastructure. PUBLIC TRANSIT
not feel safe to do so. + A narrow sidewalk on Cottonwood Street across the busy interstate leaves UTA Route 201 connects Murray Central Station to South Jordan station, operating
pedestrians feeling unsafe as they travel between the TRAX station and final north/south on State Street in the study area and stopping adjacent to 6100 South,
SUMMARY destination Creek Dr, Sam's Club driveway (southbound only), and 6790 South. The 201 bus runs
+ Winchester Street, which is an important corridor particularly for bicyclists, + Jefferson Street and 6790 South are important streets for the Atwood on half-hour headways from 6am-8pm on weekdays and from 7am-8pm with hour
pedestrians, and transit users to connect the Fashion Place West TRAX station neighborhood, yet sidewalks are incomplete on both sides of the roadways. headways on Saturdays. The 201 bus does not operate on Sundays
to the Fashion Place Mall, hosts the only bicycle infrastructure in the stud)
ae ‘ TRANSIT SERVICE

area, connecting the TRAX station to State Street. However, this infrastructure is The UTA 62 bus connects the Oquirrh Shadows stop in Jordan to the Fashion

21


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

Place West TRAX station, Within the study area, the 62 bus runs east/west along WALKABILITY LOCAL AND REGIONAL PLANNING CONTEXT
Winchester Street from the westem edge of the study area to thie Fashion Place West Sidewalks are present throughout much of the study area, all at least four feet wide. The Murray City draft General Plan emphasizes the City’s desire to improve
TRAX station, stopping at only the Fashion Place TRAX station within the study area. State Street, Winchester Street, 6100 South, and 400 West all have sidewalks on both accessibility by walking, biking, and transit in the corridor between Interstate 15 and
The route with hour headways from 6:30am-6:30pm on weekdays and 90-minute sides of the roadway. A sidewalk exists only on the west side of Cottonwood Street State Street to provide adequate infrastructure for existing and planned commercial
headways from 6:30am-9:30pm on Saturdays. The 62 bus does not operate on between the northern edge of the study area to Winchester Street, then expands to development. The Plan depicts several improvements to mobility and circulation in
Sundays both sides south of Winchester Street to the southern edge of the study area. the study area:
The UTA 209 bus connects the Fashion Place West TRAX station to the North Temple Crosswalks:existat: the intersections of + Construction on Cottonwood Street to relieve north/south congestion on
TRAX station in downtown Salt Lake City, Within the study area, the 209 bus runs east/ State Street and 700 West/Murray Boulevard. This project is in progress and the
west along Winchester Street from the Fashion Place West TRAX station to the eastern * Winchester Street & Cottonwood Street; reconstruction of the bridge over |-215 will include sidewalks and bike lanes.
edge of the study area, stopping adjacent to Jefferson St, Malstrom Lane, Clay Park Dr, + Winchester Street & State Street; + Encouraging employers to offer incentives and alternatives to relieve peak period
and Fashion Place Mall. The 209 bus operates on 15-minute headways from 6:00am- +6100 South & State Street (3 legs); vehicular congestion.
10:30pm on weekdays, half-hour headways from 7:00am-9:30pm on Saturdays, and + State Street & the Sam's Club driveway; + Adopt a complete streets policy to utilize on new and reconstructed roadways
on hour headways from 7:30pm-8:00pm on Sundays. +6100 South & Cedar Street (2 legs); and where feasible
+6790 South & State Street + Identify transit use impediments and prioritize solutions.

Most bus stops within the study area for all three of these routes consist of signage
only, with few shelters, benches, waste receptacles, or other improvements present Intersections with one crosswalk exist at State Street & Creek Drive, State Street & 6150 + Develop and implement an Active Transportation Plan

South, and Winchester & Blaine Drive + Implement a dedicated funding source for the improvement of pedestrian and
According to the Murray General Plan, the City saw a decline in the use of transit from bicycle facilities.
2000-2010 while the rest of the State saw an overall increase in the same timeframe Roughly half of the neighborhood roadways in the study area have sidewalks on both + Implement traffic calming measures on roadways where traffic operates beyond

sides of the street, the other half of the roadways have no sidewalks at all. There are the target speed.
The table on the facing page outlines the public transit boardings and alightings few sidewalks throughout most of the Western Park neighborhood, just north of 1-215
(exiting the bus) for all the stops and stations in the study area during May, 2019 between Cottonwood Street and State Street. The Atwood neighborhood on the ca FRONT REGIONAL COUNCIL REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION

south side of I-215 has more sidewalks than Western Park, but some streets such as
Je#erson Street and Malstrom Lane have only portions of or no sidewalk at all The WFRC Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) outlines several roadway infrastructure
improvements, summarized in map showing future projects:

The Fashion Place West TRAX station is the most utilized station in the study area
with over 1,300 average weekday boardings. Similarly, the bus routes in the study
area experience their highest utilizations at the TRAX station connection, Route 62 According to the 2017 Murray General Plan, people would like to walk more but do

has about 100 average daily boardings, and Route 209 experiences over 200 daily not feel safe to do so or feel that desired destinations are not walk-friendly (ie, large * State treet. eaeiied fer finan operetanal aad inpnONeRantE

boardings at the Fashion Place West TRAX station connection + Winchester Street will be widened from two travel lanes (68-foot right-of-way) to

four travel lanes (86-foot right-of-way).

parking lots in front of a store entrance, limited park strip/ street trees on sidewalks)

SUMMARY SUMMARY + Anew Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) line will operate along State Street throughout the
+ The Fashion Place TRAX station carries thousands of passengers into and out of + The public may feel discouraged from walking due to a lack of pedestrian-friendly study area, along with the existing Route 201.
the study area every week, yet the Fashion Place Mall is not easily accessible from infrastructure, especially at the locations at and adjacent to the Fashion Place Mall + A‘priority” buffered bike lane is planned for Cottonwood Street between the
this station if traveling by a means other than personal vehicle. + Many neighborhood roadways do not have sidewalks, making t difficult for northern edge of the study area and Winchester Street, as shown in the Active
+ Transit is an important mode of transportation for the area, yet most bus stops residents to make any trip by foot Transportation Implementation Plan map
only have signage. + Ashared-use trail is planned to run along the TRAX Blue line from Winchester Street

to the southern edge of the study area

iy



—— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —— =< = = =

23 Q


3.1 VISION (d) Jefferson Park redesign into a

stormwater detention and park space
3.1.1 NEIGHBORHOOD VISION (e) Commercial development integrated

Over the next three decades, the Fashion Place West Station Area will evolve into a with the new Winchester Bridge

vibrant, inclusive, and walkable urban district centered around high-quality transit, Taken together, these initiatives will reshape
diverse housing options, strong neighborhood identity, and a rich network of both physical form and social possibilities
public gathering spaces. Guided by strategic infill development, sustained public providing new opportunities for living,
investment, and partnerships across Murray City, Midvale City, the Utah Transit working, gathering, and moving through the
Authority (UTA), the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), and private neighborhood. They will support housing
property owners, this district will become a model of transit-oriented living and affordability, broaden access to employment
community-centered neighborhood transformation in the Salt Lake Valley and education, and create a stronger sense of

place rooted in local character and community
The transformation will be anchored by several catalytic redevelopment projects,

values
each reinforcing and amplifying the others:
(a) Redevelopment of UTA-owned property at the station area A TRANSIT-ORIENTED
b) Redevel tof surf k t Fashion Place Mall int d het etry <a" ~
( evelopment of surface parking at Fashion Place Mall into a mixed-use NITY

employment + housing center
In the future, the TRAX station becomes the

(c) State Street corridor upgrades aligned with “Life on State”

active heart of the district, not just a platform

for boarding trains. The undeveloped Long-term vision for redevelopment of Fashion Place Mall surface parking areas into a mixed-used neighborhood with structure parking, housing, and
office uses

and underutilized UTA-owned parcels

surrounding the station evolve into expanded open space buffers,

a walkable mixed-use center, replacing surface parking lots and isolated
The transit hub will be multimodal by design, supporting TRAX, bus service, shared
buildings with a compact and well-connected network of housing, 7 ,
bikes and scooters, and regional trail access. People choose transit because it is
small-scale commercial spaces, cafés, co-working spaces, local retail, and

convenient, safe, and connected, not because it is the only option
community-serving uses. Active ground floors front onto plazas, tree-lined

walkways, mid-block connections, and protected bike lanes that radiate out FASHION PLACE MALL EVOLVES INTO A MIXED-USE EMPLOYMENT

from the station in every direction AND HOUSING CENTER

This new Transit District becomes the “front porch’ of the neighborhood— Over the next 30 years, the Fashion Place Mall will remain a regional retail anchor—
an arrival point where residents, employees, and visitors move seamlessly but its enormous expanses of surface parking will be gradually transformed into new
between transit and daily life. Buildings step up in scale closest to the station, buildings, streets, and public spaces that expand the economic and cultural role of
with mid-tise and taller mixed-use buildings forming a visible urban center, the site

while transitions to existing single-family neighborhoods are handled
° Redevelopment will introduce
Conceptual rendering of redevelopment around the TRAX station area along Winchester Street through context-sensitive design, incremental height transitions, and

(a) Employment spaces for office, innovation, technology, medical, or educational



- FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

uses
(b) Mid- and high-density housing for 4 wide range of household sizes and
income levels
(c) Public plazas, linear greens, and pedestrian promenades
(d) New internal complete streets that link directly to the transit station and
surrounding neighborhoods
Rather than a single large district, the area will develop as a series of interconnected
blocks, ensuring permeability, human-scale mobility, and Continuous street-front
activity, Retail remains important, but it becomes integrated into a broader mixed
use environment, ensuring economic resilience even as retail formats continue to

evolve.

The mall district becomes a major employment center for the region, reducing

commute distances and enabling more residents to “live near where they work"

Housing integrated into the district provides access to jobs, services, and transit

without requiring a car—supporting affordability and climate goals
- Conceptual rendering of updates to the Jefferson Park area with better connections and improvement:

for neighborhood use.

STATE STREET IS REIMAGINED AS A COMPLETE AND LIVABLE
CORRIDOR

Conceptual rendering of redevelopment on the Winchester Bridge, reconnect east and west
neighborhoods in the Study Area

JEFFERSON PARK BECOMES A COMMUNITY GATHERING PLACE

Over time, the section of State Street near the station transforms from a vehicle- Jefferson Park evolves from a basic recreational space into a vibrant contemporary

dominated arterial into a multimodal community corridor—in alignment with the community hub—a place that brings people together and supports the daily

“Life on State” vision. Roadway design improvements prioritize walking, biking, transit rhythms of neighborhood life. The redesigned park may include:

access, and safer crossings while maintaining necessary through-traffic capacity (a) Flexible spaces for informal hangouts, festivals, and markets
(b) Shade structures, seating gardens, and comfortable year-round play

Key improvements include
(c) Multi-age recreation including pickleball, playgrounds, small courts, and turf

(a) Protected intersections designed for pedestrian and cyclist safety fields

(b) Bus prioritization and enhanced stops, including direct connections to TRAX (d) Community gardens or a teaching orchard

(©) Multi-use paths and widened sidewalks, creating a more pleasant street-edge (e) Outdoor performance and cultural programming spaces
environment

Public investment in the park strengthens neighborhood identity and ensures that

Street trees, lighting, and fagade improvements to create a more human-
(da) STARS 6 PI the benefits of redevelopment are inclusive, accessible, and shared.

scaled experience

State Street becomes a place to move through—and a place to stay. With new THE NEW WINCHESTER BRIDGE CATALYZES NEIGHBORHOOD-
businesses, public art, improved lighting, and generous public space along the SERVING COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT
Conceptual rendering of updates to the State Street corridor in the Study Area corridor, it becomes a more welcoming front door to the neighborhood As the Winchester Bridge is reconstructed to meet safety, capacity, and multimodal


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN — ~- — —_— ——_— —— —____

standards, it becomes more than infrastruct it becomes a gate

yand (d) Reduced reliance on private automobiles services

vill provide day-to-day convenience while supporting entrepreneurship and
onnector, The bridge redesign includes (e) Car share

d micromobility options small business growth

(a) \

(b) Safe and direct access to the TRAX station accessible within a short w

entire district

W uous neighborhood, where daily needs are

Employment hubs near

station will generate diverse job opportunities, while

Ik or bike ride.

integrated training programs and workforce development initiatives will ensure
(c) New pedestrian-oriented streetscaping resident
IDENTITY, CULTURE, AND SHARED STEWARDSHIP ‘ i ; : se baal vent
etween transit, housing, and employment, the neighborhood will embody the

elf
Public art, architecture, gathering spaces, and programming reinforce a strong sense

have access to these opportunities. By creating a strong connection

Using examples of similar type projects, new structures on the bridge it

bridge the divide along Winche: principle of “access to opportunity, enabling resic

ally and

and mitigate the negative impact the Interstate
of place rooted in the community's identity. Local businesses are supported through soctal

Highway has on the neighborhood. Adjacent mixed-use commercial development y

district-scale management strategies, storefront incubators, and culturally inclusive

will capitalize on increased activity and visibility, providing

y-focused d

programming Equ

(a) Local restaurants and cafés residents. A

(b) Neighborhood retail anc

at connect residents

to education and workforce resource

> and vibrant community

tai A SUSTAINABLE, EQUITABLE, AND CONNECTED FUTURE

lor | _— ; The Fashion Place West Station Area in 2055 will exemplify the principles of
his corridor becomes a we ming place to meet, walk, and enjoy daily life—not jus!
istainability, equity, and connectivity, By concentrating growth near the TRAX
A COMPLETE NEIGHBORHOOD WITH HOUSING CHOICES FOR ALL infrastructure, the neighborhood will become a model of transit-oriented urbanism

he neig rhood supports a diverse housing ecosystem, including The nity will be

(a) Affordable rental t

(b)

(a) Walkable and B treets will be

signed for people, not cars, and

sing middle housing (duplexes, fourplexes, cottage courts residents will have safe, convenient options for walking, biking, or using transit

(c) Mid-rise multifamily housing near transi (b) Vibrant and Mixed-Use: Residential, commercial, and civic uses will be
(d) Housing for seniors and people with disabilitie integrated to create a 24/7 active neight ]
(e) Family-friendly housing options with access to parks and schools (c) Equitable: A mix of housing types and price points, combined with accessible
Redevelopment ensures inclusivity, preventing displacement through coordinated
, mart infrastructure, green systems, and sustainable design will
with affordable housing developers f
community capable of adapting to clima opulation, and economic

MOBILITY WITHOUT BARRIERS

he future neighborhood prioritizes ECONOMIC VITALITY AND OPPORTUNITY SI — . “ “ as ; “ . . ™ ak. Baal: ition
(a) Safe and comfortable walking conditions ver thirty years, the neighborhood will have become an engine for local economi opportunity for all
(b) Protected and connected bike network vitality. Infill redevelopment and catalytic projects will attract businesses that benefit ver the next thirty years, the Fashion Place t Station Area will have transitioned
(c) $5 transfers between bus, TRAX, and active mode AES : Nel aio ms ‘ from a conventional suburban-commercial corridor into a thriving, human-scaled, and

fy



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

PLACEHOLDER

3.2 CONCEPT PLAN ae eee eT helt Tek) Te ee: Soe “ees +e a
The Concept Plan for the Fashion Place West Station Area outlines a coordinated L : : *) 2 3 aren . ee é i &!
approach to land use, mobility, open space, and infrastructure designed to guide | “ ; d E b ; rs : om 7 : Ps
transformation over the next several decades. This Concept Plan translates the ra
long-terrn neighborhood vision into spatial strategies, physical development | |
patterns, and network improvements that will support a transit-oriented, mixed- | yy
use, and accessible community centered on the TRAX station. The plan balances }
redevelopment opportunities with preservation of neighborhood character, | va |
improves local mobility and regional connectivity, and expands access to parks, I e |
public gathering places, and essential services. , Af "
The Concept Plan establishes a framework to guide both public and private Es #

investment in a manner that aligns with shared community goals: improving | 2. tal
neighborhood quality, increasing transit ridership, enhancing local economic | f { 1
vitality, and expanding access to opportunity for all residents. The plan emphasizes : 7 >
incremental implementation—ensuring improvements are phased, feasible, and | ‘ ‘ ¢ ]
responsive to changing economic conditions and community needs. While this plan | i sf

identifies long-range transformation, it is designed to be flexible enough to adapt to :

future challenges and opportunities, | ; { |
i]
1. LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK . comet
‘ ‘
The land use strategy focuses growth around the TRAX station, major corridors, and | ¥ . M
underutilized commercial properties, while preserving the scale and character of | ag \ |
established residential neighborhoods further from the station. The Concept Plan Pi ‘ ~
organizes future land use into three primary character areas: Station Core, Mixed-Use | 4) a!
\
Transition Districts, and Residential Neighborhoods. | x
Station Core: A Mixed-Use Transit District bets : ie : ; ‘ : Men ah 35 pa LEGEND 4
a Se \ € eae: a ee SUBAREAS: :
The Station Core encompasses the TRAX station and surrounding UTA-owned | ' : * tS |
land. This area is envisioned as the highest-intensity mixed-use district within the fs Ce
. | . .. Transit-Oriented Mixed Use . |
neighborhood. The Concept Plan encourages: ; Sa 3 : 2
| 3 : : , . 4 Urban Mixed Use *
(a) Mid- and high-density housing | Established Resiiential “dl
(b) Ground-floor retail, services, and community-supportive businesses | f 1
(c) Small offices, co-working spaces, and employment uses : ~

27 nO


= FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN ———

(d) Civic and public gathering spaces integrated into the station environment Existing single-family neighborh are retained and reinforced, with infill (d) Facade and lighting improvements to improve the pedestrian experience

. - , 4 2pportunities focused on “missing middle” housing, such a é f
Buildings within the Station Core will generally range between 3-4 stories, with i alan cused o ssing ‘ OusING, S » State Street transitions from an auto-centric arterial to a livable main street corridor

height concentrated closer to the station and transitioning downward toward (a) Duplexes and triplexes with a safer, more comfortable environment for all travelers

existing residential neighborhoods. The intent is to create an urban environment that

(b) Cottage courts 2. Winchester Street and Bridge Reconstruction

places daily needs—workplaces, groceries, cafes, retail, childcare, healthcare, and (c) Accessorydwelling units (ADUs)

fecraation—within a short walk The new Winchester Bridge becomes a critical multimodal connector, including
These housing types add gentle density, expand affordability, and allow existing

(a) Protected bike lanes

Development in the Station Core will be anchored by the redevelopment of UTA residents to age in place without disrupting neighborhood character

(b) Continuous sidewalks
owned parcels, transitioning surface parking and underutilized property into a vibrant

Improved pedestrian crossings
mixed-use campus with active ground floors and high-quality oublic realm that (¢) proved _ J

encourages walking, biking, and transit use (d) Landscape and lighting enhancements

- Commercial redevelopment at the bridge's western landing will help transform the
Fashion Place Mixed-Use Center

corridor into a gateway district

The Concept Plan envisions the redevelopment of surface parking areas at Fashion rae
f F F J ‘ Station Access and Mobility Hub Enhancements
Place Mall into a dense employment and housing district. The mall itself continues to

play a regional retail function, but the land around it becomes a walkable, mixed-use

The TRAX station area will be reconfigured as a multimodal mobility hub, integrating
center that extends the life and activity of the site beyond traditional retail hours

(a) Bus bays and transfer facilities

Key development types include (b) Shared micromobility docks

Figure 4.0 Walkable and human scale nodes create a more inviting place

(a) Residential over ground-floor commercial 1G) Secure Dever paking
Residential over ground-floor commercial
(b) (d) Passenger drop-off and shuttle zones

TRANSPORTATION AND MOBILITY IMPROVEMENTS (e) Real-time transit information signage

t builains

streets

(c) Structured parking integrated into building environments

(d) Public plazas, prornenades, and internal pedestrian networks Transportation improvements in the Concept Plan emphasize safe, connected, The station becomes the center of daily movement, not just a transit stop

multimodal mobility, reducing dependence on automobiles and improving access to

This district becomes a major employment anchor, expanding access to jobs within

i Neighborhood Greenways and Bicycle Net k
the TRAX station. The mobility strategy strengthens the neighborhood's connectivity veighborhood Greenways and Bicycle Networ

walking distance of transit, and helping rebalance regional commuting patterns
both internally and regionally.
‘ A network of north-south and east-west bikeways connects residential

Mixed-Use Transition Districts

neighborhoods to the TRAX station, Fashion Place Mall, State Street, and Jefferson

Complete Streets and Corridor Transformations

Park. These routes use

Corridors including State Street, 64( uth, Cottonwood Street, and Winchester 1

. State Street Transformation (Life on State Implementation)

transition from auto-oriented commercial uses to mixed-use corridors with , . (a) Traffic calming
he concept applies Life on State principles to this segment of the corridor
redevelopment, improved sidewalks, active retail frontage, and cross-parcel (b) Wayfinding ge
pedestrian access. Development is incremental and lot-by-lot, supporting market (a) Wider sidewalks and landscape buffers (c) Protected lanes on key corridors
responsive infill ratner than wholesale redevelopment (b) Protected bicycle infrastructure

(d) Signal improvements at major crossings

(c) Expanded transit stops with shelters and real-time arrival displays , F .
Residential Neighborhood Preservation and Enhancement he network supports safe mobility for riders of all ages and abilities.

28



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN | -

29

3. OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC REALM FRAMEWORK

The Concept Plan establishes an interconnected open space system that includes
both large civic gathering areas and smaller neighborhood green spaces. The
strategy focuses on improving access to parks, enhancing the daily experience of
public spaces, and ensuring new development contributes meaningfully to the

public realm
lefferson Park Redesign

efferson Park becomes the wnborh J entral civic and recreation hub,

incorporating

(a) Flexible event lawns for markets, concerts, and festivals
(b) Updated athletic courts and play area
(c) mmunity gardens or edible landscape features
(d) Shade structures, paths, and passive seating areas
he park supports a wide range of Community activities and becomes a recognizable

identity anchor

Station F a and Public Gathering Spaces

ion Plaza forms the civic heart of the Transit District. This space includes:
(a) Seating terraces

(b) Shade trees and stormwater-absorbing landscapes

(c) Public art and performance zones

(d) Outdoor dining and street vendor

The plaza supports daily use —morning commuters, lunchtime workers, evening

gatherings

Green Corridors and Pedestrian Promenades

Linear green corridors provide safe walking routes between

(a) The TRAX station
(b) Jefferson Park

(o) The mall redevelopment district

inves

(d) Residential neighborhoods

These corridors are designed for comfort and shade, reinforcing walkability and

environmental sustainability

4. INFRASTRUCTURE AND SUSTAINABILITY IMPROVEMENTS

The Concept Plan calls for infrastructure updates that support higher-intensity land

use, Improve environmental performance, and enhance neighborhood resilience

nent in public space can create a more livable neighborhood and increase quality of life for all residents

Stormwater and Green Infrastructure

Development integrates.

(a) Bioswales

(b) Permeable pavements

(c) Tree canopy expansion

(d) Green roofs and rainwater harvesting where feasible

hese ie tuce runoff, improve water quality, and supp mate 1 ence

Utility and Capacity improvements

The plan anticipates:

{a) We ipgrades to support increased density
(b) Energy system modernization, including district-scale clean energy readine
(©) Broadband and 5G public access expansion

Utility planning is coordinated with development phasing to minimize disruption

ind ensure adequate service Capacity

Urban Heat and Air Quality Mitigation

long-term sustainability



— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —_ —

o ven ands Poe ;

i fi

Tle i UL iL

30



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

4.1 INTRODUCTION

Housing in

tment is a vital Component to continued growth and vitality for any

community. In recent years, interest in more urban and concentrated housing

options have grown across the country, including Murray and the Salt Lake metro

in demographics, lifestyle, resource use, and budgets

n order to promote growth and sustained development energy in the Fashion Place

West neighborhood, focusing on more diversity of housing options is essential

Be of its location in the valley and proxir 0 transit, the neighbor

soon face similar development pressures that are being experienced by other part

of Murray and other cities throughout the Wasatch Front. The small area planning
w y! } Way If) W Vit idly

expects to plan for future growth

* 15 MINUTES TO FASHION PLACE MALL

° 15 MINUTES TO LIBERTY ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL

* 12 MINUTES TO SANDY

* 23 MINUTES TO DOWNTOWN SALT LAKE CITY
* 2% MINUTES TO DAYBREAK

* 70 MINUTES TO PROVO

* 90 MINUTES TO OGDEN

+  &0 MINUTES TO PARK CITY
* 10 MINUTES TO BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON
* 23 MINUTES TO SLC AIRPORT

make it

More housing brings more people to the neighborhood for more hours of the day

retail or office uses. This change and growth will support the nearby TRAX

31

Figure 3.1 Housing ct

expanding economic

station by increasing the density around it
as support a greater variety of businesses,

Place West area

and with that, increase ridership, as w

services, and other uses in the Fashion

4.2 HOUSING DEMAND
4.2.1 POPULATION GROWTH

Over the last few years Utah housing inventory has not kept up with the rate of
population growth both in single and multi-family dwellings, Overall (for sale and

rental) vacancy rates in Salt Lake County are the lowest they have been in over

1 decade, at approximately 5.5 percent, Rental unit vacancy rates are a bit lowe
at 4.6 percent. Even though Utah has previously led the nation in homebuilding
onstructing homes and apartments at a rate of nearly three times the national
average, the state still faces a housing shortage. This lack of supply has led tc

increasing home prices and rental rates. The Salt Lake Chamber polled their members

continued economic growth

With Utah's population expected to double by 2065, the demand far affo'

housing will only increase. In order to accommodate the housing needs of both
irent and future residents, tools must be implemented that increase inventory
jiversify Options, and expand afforda y Planning for continued population growt!

5 a primary challenge that the region faces in the short and long-term

4.2.2 AFFORDABILITY

4.2.2.1 MODERATE INCOME HOUSING

Utah State Code Section 10-9a-403 states that each municipality is required t
include a plan for moderate-income housing as part of their General Plan. This
plan must facilitate a reasonable opportunity for individuals of moderate-income

levels the option to live in the City. Moderate-income housing

Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) as, “housing occupied or

reserved for occupancy by households with a gross household income equal to or

less than 80 percent of the median gross income for households of the same size in
f g

the county in which the City is located’

This section uses the Salt Lake County Area Median Income (AMI) and average

household size to determine moderate income thresholds for Murray City. This



{ __ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —— — - ———

determine housing needs, and thus encourage and incentivize developers to build 4.2.2.3 NEW MARKET~RATE HOUSING

integrated neighborhoods, which also promotes economic mobility and housina

nd the

here is a common misconception ato

onstruction of new market-rate housing ir ° J

4.2.2.2 COST-BURDENED HOUSEHOLDS

lower income areas and how this development
: 4.2.2.4 ENERGY PRICES
A household spending 30 percent or more of its gross income on total housing ffects h ng costs of more affordable housing
expenses—tent or mortgage, basic utilities, and property taxes—is considered cost ‘ vey Marketa lef In. a world of higher energy costs, it will be essential to consider the combined cost

burdened. A household spending 50 percent or more of its gross income on housing

as any type of residential dwelling—whether of housing, transportation, and utilities—to ensure that families have ydequate

the unit is to be owner or renter pied—that

s available at the vailing market value for of policies and practices that help to reduce these combine
face a housing cost burden of survey respondents
the area, and similar to comparable real estate agree that affordable

transactions. Contrary to common concerns NOUSING 16 a Major centers 50 that families | ave options to reduce car usage. Such « ptions rr
t proboiem for Utah's walking, biking, public transit use, or st

coniinued economic

s, for example, by

In the state of Utah, one in three households (~66,
Vailat ty of affordable € ear public tra tana D di retail
demanding at least 30 percent of monthly income, and one in eight households

1 000) face a severe cost burden. In Salt Lake County, 24 percent of low inc

new market-rate construction slows local rer wert Caf trig

households (30-50 percent of AMI), and 75 percent of extremely low income

increases rather than initiate or accelerate therr :
households (less than 30 percent AMI), are severely cost burdened, These households ; growth

A recent study* performed by the Upjohr (Source: Ihe Salt Lake 4.3 HOUSING SUPPLY

are far more susceptible to changes in the economy or personal emergencies, either bag
Institute shows that new market-rate buildings Chamber)
of whi Id result in dire financial quences or even homelessne 4.3.1 LIFE CYCLE HOUSING
have the capacity to decrease nearby rents by 7 vey responses reaord
Providing support for the cost burdened households in Murray is needed to reduce percent relative to locations slightly farther MOUSING UTOlagoul) dy City and the Fashior € neighbort hould be a place wher
the number of short-term residents and créate more stable neighborhoods away or developed later, and can also increase . an tive tr and If i" j j jh any stage of hi

in-migration from low income areas. The study also shows that new construction adh ' ee Jhout the d nt, with the goal t

t tay in their comrn itie 5 the OUSIN: 1 ev €
percent, as well as the number of people moving to the area who are from very low BB hea men irt ng needs evolv
income neighborhoods by almost 3 pe his is due to the fact that new building
" , F ° Life cycle housing involves reintroducing the model of providing a mix of housing
reduce ts in lower segments of the housing market
Atha types in a neighborhood. Typical suburban development tends to segregate peopk
other misconception about the truction of new market-rate housing in a , ' ' y ad pan ee fe, ranging from young coupl
t fixed-ir € student, to the JiINg grand rent, a wide riety f divid af ar
lower ir e neighborhood is that this development contributes to or initiates veg
ns teveeiea ites Lich RRL ALE éisctenaerisl families live in proximity to each other, creating a more dynamic social environment

tends to occur after a neighborhood has already begun to change, or gentrify. The and more choices for any household, A neighborhood that has housing options for all

f these groups is less dependent on any one particular demographic gr

Jy
nd result is the eventual accommodation of pre-existing demand, diverting high ip, and will

ncome households from nearby units and reducing rents, instead of signaling that i ial stability as individual h Ids are able to stay within established

Murray City should adopt strategies that encourage housing development : i : Ing strateg y should continue to support
beyond it rent housing st

home price growth, This leads to fewer people ving into economically ee yond rer } }

areas. Strategies that promote residential construction foster more economically

32



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN — :

4.3.2 HOUSING OPTIONS 4.3.2.1 PHYSICAL HOUSING TYPES nature of the for-sale and rental market in the study area will further contribute to
; creating an affordable neighbort nd Ci
Neighborhoods centered around public transit and transit-oriented development In order to respond to Murray's changing demographics and the housing needs eating 3 len load and City
(TOD) are intended to provide a wider range of choices in transportation, retail, and of its diverse community, it is critical to begin to look within the City for real and
housing. Housing for people of all income levels is especially appropriate in these responsive change that will encourage the market to develop the housing and 4.4 TRANSPORTATION AND HOUSING
types of neighborhoods. Housing choices in transit-oriented developments allow infrastructure needed to accommodate our growing community. This goal focuses 4.4.1 AFFORDABILITY AND TRANSIT
1 greater number of people from a wider range of backgrounds and affordability on the need to increase the diversity of housing types and opportunities in the City
Increased public transit options and proximity to housing and job centers can have
levels to access jobs without driving. Additionally, residents of lower income levels by seeking policy reforms that can enhance the flexibility of the land use code and F ° lie ¥ 3 } “es
a great impact on the increase of affordable housing options, The Metropolitan
are more often transit-dependent than residents within middle-income brackets. create an efficent and predictable development process for community growth
. Planning Council and Center for Housing Policy performed a study in 2010 that
xpanding housing styles, types, and providing housing neat frequent and effective Strategic policy decisions that integrate the transportation system, development 7 bs
7 P ‘ identified public transportation as a key variable to the availability of affordable
transit increases quality of life and access to employment opportunities and related infrastructure, financial institutions, and data, as well as innovative design
7 7 housing. In order to make housing cheaper, public transportation needs to be more
services, Increasing housing choices and development will help meet the changing and construction methods, can break down social and economic segregation, thus g
- . . accessible and less expensive, and a municipal ty's definition of affordable housing
residential demand and build a larger residential economic base building a City for everyone.

should include transportation costs

While the Fashion Place West study area is predominately built-out, there is ample
3 Affordable housing that is more compact and closer to transit lowers housing costs
opportunity for redevelopment and infill development of existing parcels that

- When compact, residential development is located near public transit hubs or work
complement current development patterns, Context sensitive development
centers, it can decrease transportation costs and cut down on travel time for working

ee | i can ensure the character of neighborhoods |s protected and enhanced by new
individuals. Local policy makers, as well as those at the regional and state level
ounere ome Renters development. While the type and location of housing is largely driven by the market, sa | ba regional an ves
have the responsibility to adopt or amend current regulations to encourage the
100 THOUSAND tetas tathan cid land use regulations and City policies can help guide the development. The Fashion Pr SU acto) “ 9 cali

development of housing near transit centers.

a Place West study area has the capacity for infill development of appropriate types
and locations, and can oenefit from partnerships with local housing develocers 4.4.2 HOME VALUES AND TRANSIT
who are already active in creating urban, mixed-use, multifamily projects. The City
and development community can work together to address changes in housing According to a study performed by the National Association of Realtors (NAR),
80 THOUSAND preferences and needs, and provide more housing choices for buyers and renters at housing next to public transportation increases home values. These neighborhoods
ee have median sales prices 4-24 percent higher than those of neighborhoods farther

all price levels to meet housing objectives.
away from public transit. Home price gains in these transit-oriented communities

ees 4.2.2.2 FOR RENT AND FOR SALE HOUSING make sense because these areas typically are in high demand, where more
Q

businesses, restaurants, and ortunities tend to be locate
A healthy housing stock requires a diverse inventory of for-sale and for-rent a SReEEE located

products. These products can and should take many different forms, Units designea According to the same study by the NAR, homeowners also have flexibility

30% TO 35% OR . ne Y

34.9% MORE and constructed to be rented and owned can include single-family homes, when they live near public transit—1 in 4 homes were shown to not own a car.
condominiums, townhomes, apartments, as well as accessory dwelling units (ADUs) Additionally, average yearly transportation costs of households near transportation

Housing Costs as a Percentage of nts re ts in
a Residents require different styles of housing at different points in their lives, Within were between $2,500 and $4,400 less than those farther away. Living near transit
the Fashion Place West study area, for-sale single-family homes dominate the services makes the most sense for anyone who needs easily accessible public
Figure 3.4 Renters in Salt Lake County make up the majority of cost-burdened households landscape. As mentioned previously, the area does include both an apartment and transportation for daily work commuters, reducing driving costs and vehicle wear

condominium development but other housing types do not exist. Diversifying the and tear

33


— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN — -

residential construction should lement

2 afe€a in tr

g, while offering

a variety and differentiated housing tyr

es than what currently exists. Overall, the

INCOME NEEDED TO BUYA

$500,000 HOME
WITH A 20% DOWN PAYMENT

$91,008...

housing stock within the Fashion Place West neighborhood lacks diversity

ve area
is primarily market-rate single-family homes with one apartment development, and

one condominium development

4.5.1 2017 GENERAL PLAN AND HOUSING

The recommendations and strategies in the Housing section are built on the City's
goals from the 2017 Murray General Plan. The Future Land Use Map above gives a
visual representation of the General Plan, which discusses the concept of preserving
existing housing and expanding housing choice throughout the City. Due to the

current housing shortag

in the state, housing is a key issue to be addressed

$2,528...

mortgage payment

ase in population over the next 20 years, market-rate and more

5 will be important to maintaining affordab

walkable urban centers to meet the demand of walkable urban-style places. We

3.6 Graphic showing necessary household income to pu

2a home in Salt Lake have not been building new walkable neighborhoods in large enough numbers to

meet demand; nor have we been adding housing in the walkable neighborhoo
4.4.32 WALKABILITY already have fast enough to house all those who would like to live in them

A recent study completed by the real ¢

website Redfin, showed thiat in two-

4.5 MURRAY POLICY

thirds of large metropolitan areas, walkable neighborhoods have higher home values

than car dependent ones. Additionally, walkable neighborhoods appreciated faster Of the approximately 245 acres and 777 parcels that make up the Fashion Place

st

study area

than car-dependent ones in 44 of 51 large metro areas in the past seven years. Ww or 74 percent of those are residential land uses. The remaining

200 parcels make up the other 26 percent of the parcels and are occupied by non

Houses with high levels of walkability (according to the website WalkScore) command residential land uses

a premium over otherwise similar homes in less walkable locations. Estimates are that

a single additional point of WalkScore is worth $ (0 in additional home value. As The existing housing stock in the Fashion Place West study area is aging. Most of the
shown in the graph above, in Salt Lake County walkable home prices are 32 percent single-family homes were built in the 1960s with one smaller development built in
higher than car-dependent homes. Additionally kable homes have increased in the 1990s. There are also tw ltfamily developments within the study area, The
price 19.3 percent faster than car-dependent homes auth 67 Condos were built in the 1970s, and are an individually owned ynhome

style development

4 atkel signal of the significant and growing value

Americans attach to walkability. It is also an indication that we have a shortage of he existing single-family residential homes along Winchester Street are not a

omplementary use, given the speed and frequency of traffic on the road, New

34



| FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN | _____ —- . = ——_ = a _ = = _ =

4.5.1.1 KEY INITIATIVE #3 4.6 CURRENT ZONING Young couples may have children Yeung peaplejon a gious tenehold

Initiative #3 in the General Plan is based around creating Livable and Vibrant he zoning map, when it was adopted, predominately Housing Types Needed: Housing Types Needed:
Neighborhoods mirrored pre-existing land uses, The current zoning in Sl ca AEROS OETA

the study area allows for residential but predominately Apartment
In order create success around this General Plan Initiative, corresponding land use
very low density

and zoning regulations must be amended in order to provide more opportunities

for life cycle housing within residential areas. Life cycle housing can include many The R-1-8, R-M-15, and R-N-B zones are the only zones in
{ifferent types, bul diversity in housing mears providing a variety of housing type the study area that allow residential development, The
that are accessible to all income Single-family homes, town homes, duplex R-1-8 designation is applied to all single-family homes
and triplex units, apartments, and ADUs, (such as mother-in-law apartments) are within the study area, both north and south of 1-215
examples of the many different housing styles that the neighborhood could utilize

he Single-Family Residential (R-1-8) adjacent

4.5.1.2 CHAPTER 5: LAND USE AND URBAN DESIGN to Winchester Street should transition to a zoning

Jesignation that is more conducive to the major arterial

Housing Types Needed:

Chapter 5 of the General Plan describes general recommendations for future land

Housing Types Needed:

that is Winchester Street. Residential land uses that
uses and urban design. Objectives that support this goal as it relates to housing

are appropriate for parcels along major thoroughfares
include providing a mix of housing options and residential zones to meet a diverse = Cottag

include higher density residential and a mix of uses + Sing)
range of needs related to lifestyle and demographics, including age, household size.

he single-family housing stock in the study area fil
and income
need in the housing market and should largely be left

4.5.1.3 CHAPTER 8: NEIGHBORHOODS AND HOUSING preset

J with the existing zoning

The Neighborhoods and Housing section of the General Plan prescribes various The Multi-Family (R-M-15) zoning designation

methods to plan for the future of Murray’s residential neighborhoods. The goal includes the apartment complex as the condominium Figure 3.8 Life cycle housing is a strategy to er that iseholds have access to housing choice in their neighborh 1
f this section is to “provide a diversity of housing through a range of types and complex within the study area. The density and height lifetime.

d lopment patterns to expand the moderate-income housing options available to should be increased for those parcels that are adjacent he Manufacturing (M-G) designation is applied to a majority of the parcels that

existing and future residents to the Commercial Development (C-D) zone. The parcels that are adjacent to single surround the TRAX station as well as the western portion of the study area along 1-15

family homes should increase in density but be required to be a lower height or
density at the property line and step up to the maximum density as the buildings This area has natural breaks from the single-family homes with the rail line, 1-15,
near the Commercial District zone and |-215. Those facts make this an ideal location to transition to four to seven story

residential towers in the future
The zoning in the study area does not allow a mix of uses. In a successful transit

jacent to freeways should |

oriented development, a mix of uses is encouraged. This mix usually is in reference Residential uses around transit stations and
to ground floor activ yrimercial uses with residential units above These residential much higher densities as they are not adjacent to single-family or lower density
units can be a for-sale or for-rent product and of varying sizes. homes. The highest residential densities should be concentrated at points closest to

the Fashion Place \ RAX station and the areas between the rail lines and 1-15

The Commercial District (C-D) zone is the eastern portion of the Fashion Place

35


{ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

West

study area. This zone includes Fashion Place Mall and the east and west sides of

State Street within the study area. While the C-D zone has height allowances that are

somewhat favorable for this area, residential is not currently allowed in this zone

While the Mixed-Use Development (M-U) zone is not applied to parcels within the

Fashion Place Study area, the M-U zone is versatile enough that it could be applied

ine

and around the Fashion Place We

idential are encouraged, and single

station area. Higher density uses including

family homes and duplexes are not permitted

Text amendments are necessary in order to encourage and incentivize more housing

in the area. In

eased densities are necessary given the geographic location, housing

demand in the region and throughout the state, and proximity to the TRAX station

Figure 3.9 Housing supply of all kinds at

36

acking throughout the regior

4.7 HOUSING SUMMARY AND
RECOMMENDATIONS

In order for transit-oriented developm

adv

ent to be successful, it is important for

ates to also be strong supporters of new housing development. The demand

for walkable living across varying demographic groups |s quite positive for most
communities, particularly those that can provide good transit service and access to

job centers and recreation, like the Fashion Place West neiqhborhood

One of the key strategies of the The Wasatch Front Regional Council's (WFRC)

Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) is to focus growth around multi-modal

transportation neighborhood centers. These centers are created using Community

become the focus of a strong market for moderately priced and life cycle housing for

all income levels, as \ s accessible jobs and services

Unfortunately, many communities struggle to build more housing choices, often
due to public misconception, Public and political resistance to increased residential
densities often needed in order for projects to be viable, often prolong the

d

ment process several months, if not years, Making a Community far less

attractive to developers

With the current optimism and excitement apparent
in Murry, it is vital that new housing growth be seen
as a positive rather than a negative The support of
development of Context-sensitive housing, In addition,

Murray's Fashion Place West neighborhood has a great

Ea deal of under-utilized land that could be converted to
rz more productive and active uses, such as housing and

4-24% mixed-use projects.
HIGHER More compact development is also better able tc

af) $8185 price O
Nborhoods nour

support dedicated public transit, also helping to

public ansit reduce individual transportation costs and area tr

congestion. This could also lead to a reduction in

tly ease home value car usage and corresponding energy use and carbon

Aan

1 in 4 homes, within
proximity to public
transit, does not own a
personal vehicle

Figure3.11
igure3.}]

Figure 3

dable mode

emissions

In Utah, housing and affordable housing
is an issue that all municipalities face
In order to effectively address the crisis

these same municipalities must us

two-pronged approach; relax requlations
on types of allowable housing types as

well as regulations around permitting and
processes surrounding public transportation

infrastructure. Improvement and an increase

policy could lead to the redevelopment of

urban areas that have long been neglected



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN”

37

4.8 HOUSING IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY

This implementation strategy weighs current market conditions,

regulations, and best pra hese important factors help to identify

amendments that will improve

ind outline clear prioritie f

4.8.1 HOUSING PRIORITIES

xpand housing choice in the study area, the following

3. Create a walkable r hborhood

4. Increase residential allowable densities for development along and
adjacent to the Fashion Place West TRAX station, I-15, and State
treet, by f€ 19 parking densities using structured parking ir

5. Address established residential neighborhoods by creating

responsible transitions between existing residential and new, higher

jensity development

6. Incorporate a mix

existing single

4.8.2 POLICY UPDATES AND LAND USE
AMENDMENTS

Policy changes the City can implement will begin the process of change

for the study area, inc

luding the fol

vINg

existing TOD zone with the following revisions

(a) Parking

(i) Include shared parking provision

>

{ii) Re

t

battens
station

ide

ntial re

sire

nts contingent upon proximity

shared parking calculation, et

(iii) Implement parking maximums.

(b) Reds

(d) Consider a dec

fror

(e)

) percent t

ef

nt y

ent r

ea

eneral Plan

rease of (

within the

MEDIUM

TERM

ack fr

15 feet and 25 feet, t feet

etback requirement

pen

pace percentage requirements

10 percent

ly area per recommendatior f the

+ Rezone propertie

adjacent to TR tation

elp facilitate increased densities

include a residential

- Consider a parking structure

(to increase residential

at NV

density options on-site

- Consider parking structure on

UTA property in order to facilitate

higher density residential options

Help facilitate increased densities
snd residential development type

n Mall property

+ Help facilitate property transition
of existing industria e
Je of study



= FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN = . —

38



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —— —_ - = 7

5.1 INTRODUCTION 5.2.2 MURRAY CITY GENERAL PLAN business owners, developers, and property owners, Findings in a recent report show

+ ee . . . that walkable urban places are also extremely economically beneficial to the local
The study area is home to the Fashion Place West TRAX station, a major transit hub The Murray City General Plan emphasizes the City’s desire to improve accessibility < .

" . x r municipalities in which they reside, with properties in these areas also highly valued
located over half a mile from Fashion Place Mall. Transporting people, especially to for pedestrians, bicyclists, and public transit riders in the corridor between I-15 and P 9

Walkable urban office space has a 105 percent rent oer square ‘oot over drivable

and from the TRAX station to the mall, is key to the area's continued economic vitality State Street to provide adequate infrastructure for existing and planned commercial von
suburban Space

While motorized vehicular infrastructure is well-established, pedestrian, bicycle, and development
transit infrastructure are not Consistent through the area, and safety features could be 5.3 BEST PRACTICES 5.3.3 PLANNING FOR FUTURE TRAFFIC
added
With projectea growth and development in and around the study area, traffic Is likely
5.3.1 CONNECTIVITY to increase The followir y of ways to mitigate traffic and plan

5.2 PREVIOUS PLANNING EFFORTS for future growth

Establishing better connections and improving the street grid between commercial

5.2.1 2008 LIFE ON STATE areas, public transit, and surrounding neighborhoods begins by identifying

In 2008, the Life on State project established a shared vision for the future of the locations, such as Fashion Place Mall, where the established street grid ai at ae
valley's 17-mile-long central corridor, State Street. The project was a collaborative is not maintained, and establishing a plan to extend the grid when new AE AS
effort between all six cities along State Street, Wasatch Front Regional Council development or redevelopment occurs. This will increase connectivity

(WFRC), Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT), Utah Transit Authority (UTA), and diminish the island effect that is Commonly created by these types of

Salt Lake County (SLCo), Salt Lake Chamber, Murray Chamber of Commerce, and the commercial land uses.

Downtown Alliance
Designing and planning to implement more human-scale building design

The vision for State Street was built on broad involvement with residents and standards and improved streetscapes will help to guarantee that future

stakeholders, and was detailed in the document. The belief was that this collaborative development follows the grid with street design, building massing, and

connectivity.

effort would create a safe environment ‘or private investment consistent with the

vision, The concept was that moving in a new direction was not as risky a proposition

5.3.2 WALKABILITY

if itis backed by a strong, enduring commitment from the partnership
The experience of an individual on foot in an urban place can have lasting

impacts on how a person feels about their community. Walkability is

nfluenced by many factors, many of which are the degree to which humar

scale design concepts are addressed. Slowing auto traffic, encouraging fo
ground-floor activation of buildings, improving streetscapes, incorporating st :
public art elements, and shortening distances between destinations can
create more walkable places. According to Foot Traffic Ahead, pudlished in
2019 by the George Washington University School of Business and Smart
Growth America, retail space in well connected walkable commercial areas

can rent for 121 percent (over two times) over drivable suburban commercial Figure 4.5 The walkability of the Study Area is severely impacted by major physical barriers, such as the Interstates
and rail corridors that cut through the neighborhood. The 10-minute ‘Walkshed' is actually much smatter than the

space
Lat typical 1/2 mile radius, due to the impact of these barriers

Figure 4.0 Walkable and human scale nodes create a more inviting place.

Walkable places are increasingly valued by potential residents, visitors,

39


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN = — - : ——

5.3.5 LEVEL OF SERVICE AS A MEASURE of transportation and also encouraged more economic growth. This same approach

can be taken throughout the Fashion Place study area, particularly along State Street,
V Service (LOS) has been th dard method to evaluate the ope al “
eve, of Senvice (W095) Nas been the stancard method taevaluste the operations Winchester Street, and Cottonwood Street as they provide direct connections to

cy of an intersection for vehicles and for determir shicular impact from

major attractions and residential neighborhoods in the study area. Prioritizing VMT
developments. LOS is a calculation of delay per vehicle at a given intersection, over LOS will encourage a more multi-modal and mixed-use environment, therefore
ranging from A (least ammount of delay) to F (worst amount of delay). It is not until reducing pollution and noise, making the area more enjoyable for both residents and
recently that communities have begun to revise their measures of intersection roadway users. The entire study area itself has the potential to become a destination,
quality and development impact. The state of California adopted Vehicle-Miles rather than solely the pockets around popular attractions
Traveled (VMT), a method that measures the total distance traveled by individual

roadway users along a corridor or in a network, as the new method for roadway Recommendations for the Fashion Place West study area include considering VMT in
flow evaluation, replacir S under SB-743. This new method analyzes traffic along evaluating the efficiency of traffic flow with the understanding that a low-ranking
with land use to reduce necessary trips and accounts for all users of a roadway LOS at certain intersections might in fact promote other modes of transportation and
network whereas only analyzes the flow otorized vehicles through an move more vehicles through a corridor

intersection. VMT was prioritized over LOS in California to report on the efficiency of
Figure 4,1 Successful connectivity includes consideration of active transportati scan vork as well as:describe:the environmental effects:associated with fuel 5.3.6 INDUCED DEMAND
consumption, emissions, and public health Induced demand is the additional travel associated with a lower cost or lower
5.3.4 TRAFFIC ANALYSIS AND MITIGATION ;
time necessary to make a trip. These extra trips often occur due to the widening of
Personal vehicles are a primary mode of transportation in Murray, leading to VMT is calculated by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation an already congested roadway as additional lanes initially reduce travel time and
congestion on certain roadway segments during peak hours. Signals throughout rate multiplied by the individual trip length. The further users are required to travel fuel costs. However, the corridor soon reaches its capacity in a matter of years, as
the study area should be optimized and synchronized as an inexpensive and the higher the VMT. Similarly, as the number of users required to travel increases, the shown by a study done by Fehr & Peers in conjunction with Caltrans, U,C. Davis, and
quick way to mitigate congestion. If signa! timing adjustments do not alleviate the VMT incteases as well. Different land use scenarios affect VM'— inte the California Governor's Office of Planning and Research. Induced demand also
congestion—turn bays might need to be added or lengthened. Adding lanes should Seryices within resigential areas towers the distance required to travel. snus lowering applies to the installation of walkways and bike lanes. Creating a safe space for these
é 2 last resort in alleviatir ongestion as implementation is expensive, the VMT vulnerable users encoura 3N increase in non-motorized traffic. Induced demand
REDIF Wallta he NIGH OF Way, iktreses the number OFEOnicts. ancl incieases VMT projections are already included in the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) explains both the idea that more lanes mean more traffic, and the notion that

crossing distances for pedestrians and bicyclists.

travel demand model and should be used when planning for future growth. This can building infrastructure for alternative modes encourages people to use those modes

The oncoming development around Winchester Street and 700 West will increase 9 analyzed by an individual project (i.e, the trips to and from a new grocery store) or Overall, induced demand is the concept that proper infrastructure brings more \

raffic along Winct 1, likely impacting the study area. The intersection should by the impact of an individual project on a network (i.e, the trips to and from a new than existing conditions

be properly adjusted using the above techniques to ensure a satisfactory level of grocery store would reduce VMT to and from existing grocery stores, thus decreasing Implementation recommendations include safe pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure
service. Additionally, the signal at Winchester Street and Cottonwood Street should the VMT for the greater area) While VMI does not have specific thresholds as LO to encourage an increase in non-motorized users to reduce the amount of

ant es, generally a reduction in network VMT is considered successfu veh
be synchronized with the signal at Winchester Street and 700 West to does, generally a reduction in tall network VMT is considered successful vehi

backups and delay. As of 2016, Winchester Street had 11,000 annual av - station are particularly important as the station is a hub for pe trians and
In addition to utilizing VMT as a metric, accepting a lower LOS (i.e. LOS E of F) is
taffic (AADT) of its }6,000 AADT capacity. Winchester still nas 5,000 AADT capacity ¢ cyclists. Implementing bike lanes and wide sidewalks along Winchester Street and
7 becoming more popular in the more urbanized areas throughout the western
bsorb additional traffic from new development ottonwood Street would provide safe access for cyclists and pedestrians to the

United States. The Sugar House neighborhood in Salt Lake City is a local example

area's neighborhoods and to Fashion Place Mall. A crosswalk on Cottonwood Street
where priority has been given to all other modes of transportation before motorized

at the northern side of the TRAX station would provide convenient pedestrian access

vehicles. This has helped keep the right-of-way at a manageable size for all mc



5.3.8 ACCESS TO OPPORTUNITIES (ATO) 5.3.8.2 STRATEGIES FOR INCREASING ACCESS

Access to Opportunities (ATO), is a way to measure how well people can An Access to Opportunities measure can facilitate decision-making for and beyond
connect to basic needs and amenities including jobs, schools, grocery, transportation planning, in supporting upward socioeconomic mobility, Cities and
retail, parks, community centers, and entertainment. On a broad scale, ATO developers Can improve access to opportunity in a myriad of ways by mixing uses
metrics quantify how well current and future transportation networks and and clustering growth near high speed and high frequency transit

infrastructure coordinate with land uses in order to assist local economies and
Land use solutions that improve Access to Opportunities include
communities to thrive

+ Growth centers near high-capacity transportation,

Increased accessibility can have significant impacts on overall community «Higher density development between 2-6 stories depending on location

livability while improving residents’ connections to the services necessary

+ Intermixing homes and jobs, and
to promote upward mobility such as education, employment, healthcare,

+ Street design that encourages local investment along the street
social services, and other basic amenities. ATO could also serve as a quide for

Murray City to pursue the best possible transportation planning and land use Transportation solutions that can improve Access to Opportunities include

decisions in support of community choice and economic vitality «Reduced congestion

+A more connected street network,

5.3.8.1 UNDERSTANDING NEEDS OF VULNERABLE
COMMUNITIES THROUGH ATO

+ Increased transit frequency and Coverage.

+ Bicycle and pedestrian connections, and

The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) defines under-set ved individuals

as those that are low Income, a minority, elderly, a child, have limited English + Higher travel speeds on key commuter (non—neighborhood) routes
proficiency, or those with disabilities. Vulnerable Communities are those census

block groups where any of the following conditions is met:

+ Greater than 25 percent lower income populations are highlighted, as a

lack of access to reliable and efficient transportation can be a major barrier to

economic mobility
Figure 45 Household Access to Jobs Transit For each traffic analysis zone (TAZ), colors indicate household

accessibility to jobs, within a typical transit commute, relative to the average score for the highlighted area, The labels
indicate the number of jobs accessible to each TAZ’s households within a typical transit commute. (84K = 84,000 jobs) — as, many land use and transportation investments in the U.S. have, historically,
More info; https//bit ly/2ORt9gO

+ Greater than 40 percent minority populations are included in this definition,

adversely impacted racial and ethnic groups. WFRC strives to prevent future
projects from having a similar disproportionate impact

to jobs and homes on the northern side of |-215. Providing safe and convenient + Greater than 10 percent zero-car households are included, as these are
infiastructure to non-motorized users, particularly at this transit hub, offers a populations which include those with disabilities, depend more on transit,
competitive alternative to driving a car. This will in turn induce a higher use of active paratransit, walking, and bicycling to reach employment and other destinations

transportation modes which activates spaces and increases the vibrancy of the area
f Pp . ancy . ATO can help communities understand the separation of residents from employment

Adding more lanes to roadways in the study area should be avoided where possible
J Y ms F opportunities and other basic needs, at a neighborhood level. This ts especially crucial

as this will encourage more vehicles on these already high-volume roadways.
) . ba’ | Y for under-served populations that would benefit most from alternative modes of

transportation to access daily services,

41


—{___ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN _ | ——— _ : Taner = — —

5.3.9 WAYFINDING tation and the mall to guide users 5.4 STREETS AND BLOCKS

\

Wayfinding can be a k high-impact tool to incre:

placed at the intersection of S

Street and 5.4.1 FREEWAY INFRASTRUCTURE

ommercial retail throughout the study area. Including informational signage at Winchester Stree must begin to turn into the mall property. Direct

here are two free verpass bridges in the study area, one on Winchester Street
popular area destinations that direct pedestrians and bicyclists towards appropriate cyclists to the most robust bike infrastructure network can increase comfort and nd one on Cottonwood Street. Both bridges are in need of active transportation
saline lea nvenience and safety of all roadway user nfidence of use improvements due to narrow and « 2d sidewalks. The Cottonwood Street bridae

has limited space due to the TRAX rails and only features a sidewalk on the west side
he TRAX station should feature signs indicating the direction and distance of key ther locations that would benefit from wayfinding lude Liberty Elery a f ¢ \ ’ ) Hl ) ci on th

f the bridge. This sidewalk is narrow (4 f wide) and does not connect with the
areas such as Fashion Place Mall, the Murtay Senior Recreation Center, and Grant Park 1. Grant Park, Jeferso ark, as well.as the future Porter Rockwell Trail ext y } ’ ewalk is na an nn i ’

idewalk on the north side of the bridge. While the Winchester Street bridge features
Likewise, the mall should display informational signs at entrances and exits to direct on thi , ch c q 3

\ idewalks on both sides of the roadway, these sidewalks are also narr 4 feet

hoppers and workers to the various transportation options available: parking area

wide vered with gar lose proximity to traffic, and only separated by
bicycle infrastructure, walkways, micromobility parking locations, bus stops, and is v prox a] irate
preferred route to the TRAX station

for the pedestrian and bicyclists. Recommendations in

smoving the two-way
Furthermore, signage should be implemented along these alternative mode routes

indergoes repair

nd innovative option is to reconstruct the Winchester Street bridge with a
Nider structure to provide space for small shops to be located along the roadway

y vehicles and the vehicles on Winchester Street. This type of project would

require heavy involvement from and coordination with UD¢

5.4.2 INTERSECTION IMPROVEMENTS

he intersection of State Street and Creek Drive had 14 collisions from 2017-2019, 11

of which were making left-turn movements, primarily from State Street northbound

onto Creek Drive and from the mall entrance \ tbound onto State Street. This

fi ind 6 9 trai re exte n of the Porter Rockwell Tra
r 1 intersection is located roughly 900 feet from the intersections at 6100 South and
6400 South, well under the threshold of the required 2,640 feet for UDOT signal
nq fort sdwa tricting left-tur ts f the t
enters throughout the study area intersectior
A tise Cty teil \ ’ tdirectl tt AY he intersection of Winchester Street and 7 ti }
Winchester eet | par Har f ] Ing a dire y , RA
station with Fashion Place Mall. Signs should be located at the exits of both the Ife) y wil } | y

42



growth will lixely cause an increase in traffic towards local destinations such as the supporting infrastructure
TRAX station and Fashion Place Mall, both of which are located along Winchester improvements. Examples
Street, likely causing an increase in traffic along the corridor include bike racks,

covered or indoor

5.4.3 ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS

storage, and service

Arterials: High-volume and wide roadways often are accompanied with higher stations for quick tune

speeds. It is very important to install buffers between sidewalks and bike lanes and ups oF to fill flat tires

the roadway to provide a lower level of stress and better sense of safety to non Finally, bike lanes should

motorized users. State Street experiences the highest level of vehicular traffic and ha be added to Cottonwood
the highest speed limit in the study area. It is very important to implement proper Street and 5900 South
pedestrian infrastructure to ensure the safety of all roadway users, Adding a buffer will to provide a bypass for
increase pedestrian safety and decrease chances of vehicle~pedestrian collisions, All Winchester Street to the
signals along the State Street corridor should be synchronized neighborhoods north
of 1-215 and to Fashion

Collectors: These mid-speed roadways with great connectivity are very suitable for Place Mall
bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure. Cottonwood Street and Winchester Street are
connectors in the study area. Both roadways should feature Continuous bike lanes 8.5.2 BIKING

: RECOMMENDATIONS

and sidewalks at least 6 feet wide with a buffer between the roadway
The Fashion Place area

Neighborhood Streets: These roadways operate at a low speed and volume and are experiences a fait level

typically safer for cyclists to ride in the roadway. Several neighborhood streets in of bicycle activity as

the study area currently have no pedestrian infrastructure. Pedestrian infrastructure shawn by Strava bicycle
data, primarily alon
is Vital to connecting homes to the larger mobility network. Recommendations primanly 9
Winchester Street and
include installing sidewalks and advisory shoulders—dashed lanes at the edge
Cottonwood Street
of the roadway reserved for non—motorist roadway users—where possible on all
Beginning on the

neighborhood roadways.
J ay western edge of the

5.5 ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION study area, bike lanes

and improved lighting

Jing to comments received during the public input process of the 2017 Murra
According to co dd g P a MIRUCRIRS 2 2 Y should be installed Figure 4.13 Future improvements to the transit system within the Fashion Place West neighborhood would increase ridership and improve the rider experienc e and quality.

General Plan, citizens would like to walk and bike more but do not feel safe to do so.
along Winchester on

Implementing the following recommendations can improve a user's comfort when

the Interstate bridges to cyclists.
msing stlive: wenspor ater eeittasyectors increase a rider's sense of safety. Further along Winchester Street, between Jefferson Connecting the bicycle infrastructure from Winchester Street to Fashion Place Mall
Street and Malstrom Lane, the bicycle infrastructure switches from a dedicated bike is of particular importance. A two-stage bicycle turn box at the intersection of
RAD AIG Senne lane to sharrows back to dedicated bike lane to preserve on-street parking for certain Winchester Street and State Street, leading to a dedicated northbound bike lane
Incorporating bicycle friendly elements into the Fashion Place West neighborhood residences, This on-street parking in the public right-of-way should be converted to (or sharrows if a bike lane is not possible) on State Street should be implemented
can take shape in many forms, including the addition of bicycle amenities, as well as dedicated bike lanes to reduce chances of conflict between motorized vehicles and to guide cyclists through this intersection that experiences the greatest number of

43


cyclist crashes out of any other intersection in the study area Place Mall parking lot. Currently, no sidewalks or pathways exist connecting the

In addition to these signs and pavement markings, signs warning motorists of cyclists City sidewalks to the mall entrances. This causes an unclear, uncomfortable, and
should also be installed to increase awareness of the multi-modal intersection. From unattractive experience for mall patrons traveling by foot. Providing a clear and
here, sharrows should be implemented from State Street through Fashion Place welcoming walkway for pedestrians will increase comfort and attractiveness of

Mall parking lot to the mall entrance. Sharrows should similarly be installed from the walking to the mall.

doors of the mall through the parking lot to Winchester Street. Dedicated bike lanes

should be implemented along Winchester Street connecting the infrastructure west Finally, general sidewalk conditions throughout the study area need to be improved
of the intersection with State Street Sidewalks should be level, clear of vegetation and debris, at least 6 feet wide where
5.5.3 PEDESTRIAN RECOMMENDATIONS possible, and should include a ouffer between the walkway and the roadway. This

7 ; is particularly important on Winchester Street and Cottonwood street to provide
Pedestrian infrastructure throughout the study area needs to be improved,
comfortable north-south and east-west access to the study area for TRAX riders who

particularly along State Street. The sidewalks along State Street should include
often begin and end their trip on foot.

a landscaped buffer at least 5 feet wide from the ousy roadway to enhance the

feeling of safety for users. Furthermore, drainage issues should be repaired at the 5.5.4 CONNECTIONS TO SURROUNDING DEVELOPMENT Figure 4.7 The intersection of State Street and Winchester Street currently lacks a safe bicycle experience.

intersections along State Street. Many crosswalks enter into a pool of leftover storm Future improvement recommendations include better bicycle lane signage as well as sidewalk

improvements.
water making it very difficult for pedestrians to safely cross. Additionally, a Pedestrian In order to create a true network of mobility, infrastructure must consistently

Hybrid Beacon (PHB) or a full traffic signal should be implemented at State Street connect destinations to destinations. All vehicular, transit, pedestrian, and bicycle

and Creek Drive. Currently, residents around Grant Park must divert up to a third of infrastruictlire implemented should be designed with connectivity in mind, both

a mile through either the signal at State Street and Winchester Street or State Street Inside and outside the study area. The planned extension of the Porter Rockwell

and 5900 South to reach the edge of Fashion Place Mall parking lot. Installing a PHB Trail will be a key connection to other communities, requiring a robust bicycle and

signal or a full trafic signal would give residents directly west of Fashion Place Mall Pedestrian network in the study area to encourage trail users to stop in the Fashion

a convenient, direct and likely safer access point to the mall. It should be noted Place West neighborhood. Other key destinations to connect to include Murray City

that under UDOT's current quidelines, a new signal would closer than the allowable Center and the upcoming development at Winchester Street and 700 West
standard of 2,650 feet between lights to both existing State Street signals at 6100

South, as well as at Winchester Street. The current method for determining an

5.5.5 PARKING LOT PEDESTRIAN IMPROVEMENTS
appropriate exception for a PHB signal along a roadway such as State Street requires Currently, Fashion Place Mall parking lots feature no bicycle or pedestrian

a study of the number of jaywalking pedestrians in a given period of time. Jaywalking ImisONeMnients: These: conriectioris are vital Rr the fitstast mile Harter ot ary

across this roadway is unsafe and alternative thresholds should be explored with mall trip. By providing wide walkways and bikeways from mall entrances directly

to the adjacent roadways and transit stops, non—motorist users will feel more

UDOT, While exceptions in signal spacing are not common, an example currently Bogle farts
exists along State Street at Williams Street in Salt Lake City, as shown below comfortable and encouraged to travel to/from the mall utilizing alternative modes of Figure 4.8 The existing intersection at Creek Road and State Street is lacking pedestrian amenities
transportation Improving this intersection will increase connectivity from the neighborhood to Fashion Place Mall

Outside of the State Street corridor, a sidewalk and crosswalk should be installed
on the northern end of the TRAX station westward across Cottonwood Street
Public input indicates that this pattern is already a common route for pedestrians 5.5.6 MICROMOBILITY

originating north of 215.
Micromobility is an emerging mode of transportation bringing publicly or privately

Additionally, pedestrian infrastructure needs to be improved throughout Fashion operated e-scooters, bikes (including bikeshare), and other shared mobile



-— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN - . ———— . SS

omability such as

option to increase conn:

lightweight devices to a communty. Micromobility can offer a convenient last-
mile connection between the TRAX station and Fashion Place Mall, especially once

complete cycling infrastructure is implemented along Winchester Street
t
4.1] Effective bicycle connectivity within the Fashion Place West neighborhood has the

0 avoid clashes with future installations of micromobility, Murray City should develop
acity to increase activity in the area and reduce vehicular traffic

policies around micromobility before companies enter the market. Policies should

address topics such as fleet caps, service area and cistribution, fees and pricing,

Figure 4.10 The FHWA outlines a two-stage bicycle turn box design similar to the ones im)
equity, maintenance and safety, data sharing, community engagement, and parking along 200 West i ne Winchester and State

age source: NACTO).

lemented parking if no extra sidewalk space is available. Other enhancements can improve

alt Lake City which could be implemented ¢

Outlined in the figure below Any of these

the non-motorized user experie

inte

ection (ime
enhancements would be particularly useful along Winchester Street which connects

Fleets should be capped by a revocable permit system based on a dynamic rate

such as number of residents or operational performance. A cost analysis should burden of micromobility adoption on the City. two of the area’s destinations—the TRAX station and Fashion Place Mall—along with

be conducted to determine the true costs of administering the program, Dynamic the continuation of the bike lanes between Jefferson Street ana Malstrom Lane as a

pricing offers the most potential for revenue, and parking fees can generate extra Finally, parking policies should detail strategies to enforce parking rules, compliance particularly helpful improvement

with ADA requirements, and no parking at loading zones. Infrastructure for
mictomobility includes parking zones and riding infrastructure, Dedicated parking 5.5.7 TRAX STATION IMPROVEMENTS

zones should be located near (but not block) entrances to popular area destinations

cash while encouraging riders to comply with parking policies. Implementing pricing

policies can help prevent abrupt price changes from operators

Signage and information about the bike, pedestrian, and transit options could be

Maintenance and safety quidelines should outline collection of incident reports and such as the TRAX station, Fashion Place Mall, and Grant Park. These parking locations installed to assist riders in accessing Fashion Place Mall from the TRAX station

inspection requirements. Data sharing is important for infrastructure planning and the should be easily accessible from riding infrastructure. Bicycle infrastructure should

permitting process. It is recommended to share data in either the General Bikeshare be used as micromobility infrastructure to discourage riding on the sidewalk where The 209 bus in particular should be utilized as a circulator bus between TRAX and

Feed Specification (GBFS) or Mobility D specification (MDS) formats, depending on possible in order to avoid conflict with pedestrians ania maintain an ADA-friendly Fashion Place Mall. Furthermore, the City in partnership with UTA should consider

the preferred level of detail and user privacy environment. Improving bicycle infrastructure therefore improves micromobility redesigning the crossing arms so as not to block access to the sidewalk causing
infrastructure. Ideally, bike lanes should include a buffer to physically restrict pedestrians to back up onto the tracks. The current crossing configuration also

The City should also develop communication and education policies to ensure conflict with motor vehicles. This bulfer can also provide space for meromobilily prohibits individuals with mobility needs from crossing the TRAX rail The following

operators are engaging with the community in an equitable manner to minimize the

45


images show an example of improved crossing arm configuration at Central Pointe 5.5.8 BUS STOP
Station and 2100 South in Salt Lake City. As illustrated, the sidewalk is rerouted to IMPROVEMENTS

ensure no conflict between the ADA and pedestrian route with the crossing arm or Consider rerouting the

the sidewalk Route 209 bus route

to stop directly in front
Other improvements that should be considered at the Fashion Place West TRAX

of a mall entrance. The
station include:

current mid-block stop

+ Implementing a crosswalk connecting TRAX to Cottonwood Street location on Winchester

+ Creating a connection from TRAX to new sidewalk on the west side of Street forces riders to
Cottonwood Street take a long route to

+ Including landscape buffers, at least five feet wide from busy roadways adjacent reach the mall without
to station proper sidewalk

+ Widen sidewalks adjacent to the station to improve pedestrian comfort infrastructure through

+ Ensure consistency in bike lanes to/from the station the parking lots. A

«Improve existing sidewalk conditions along Winchester Street direct route for riders

improves pedestrian
safety by decreasing

chances of vehicular
Batter Berweon

— conflicts

According to the
UTA Bus Stop Master
Plan, bus stops along
Winchester Street
and State Street can

also be improved to

feature additional

amenities depending

4 : 5

Figure 4.6 Future streetscape improvements along the Winchester Bridge would enhance the on frequency and Figuie 4.9 The map above Mustrates suggested future improvernents to the:toad network
if more active t) hods. ‘ A

pedestrian experience and encourage use of more active transportation methods. ridership. The 209 bus

currently runs on 15-minute headways, and the Route 201 bus and the Route 62

bus both operate on headways that are greater than 15 minutes. In the case that
ridership does not meet the desired threshold for a station improvement, Murray
City can partner with UTA to fund the implementation of the amenity. Increasing
amenities at bus stops makes the system more attractive and can increase comfort

and safety of users.



[ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN =

5.7 CONNECTIVITY SUMMARY AND IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY

5.7.1. CONNECTIVITY PRIORITIES

transportation and mobility in the study area, planned improvements

nd best pract hese fact were sed to identif nd outline eat 1. Improve vera tive transportation nnectivity betweer
priorities and policy amendments to improve future transportation residential neighborhoods, TRAX station, and Fashion Place Mall
vithin the study area 2. Modify A Bus route ) to be a circulator between the
end zoning ordinance tation and Fashion Place Mall
Adopt streetscape 3. Develop parking strategy
mprovement plar 4. Adopt streetscape imr sn to « ure future Connectivit
+ Perform streetscape (a) Winchester

(b)
«Improve access frorr
sttonwood Street to TRAX (©) Intersectior

tation (d) Fashion Place Mall acce

«Improve UTA bus circulation

5.7.2. POLICY UPDATES AND LAND USE
AMENDMENTS

aff t t OD zone with the following revision
and Creek Drive
(a) Parking
with Fashion Place
improve internal (i) Include shared parking provision

MEDIUM
TERM

nectivity a (ii) Reduce residential requirements contingent upon proximit

AX station, shared parking calculation, et
* Work with UDOT to improve

)} Implement f Naxime
pedestrian and bicycle (ili) Img nt parking maxi

experience at Wincheste (b) Reduce front yard setback from 15 feet to 25 feet, to 0 feet
ind State Streets
(c) Implement maxir nN setback requirement
« Parking structure at Mall
(d) Decrease open space percentage requirements from 20 percent
nchester and to 10 percent
ttonwood Street bridge
provements by UDC

A parking structure

seneral Plan

47


— FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN = — ——_—— - — . -_

ae

Nhatein Fiewne " thoy bled
raey Uunl
Taw seep

oh My, Sigs Wd



—_—[ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN = |————________ a —

5.1 DESIGN GUIDELINES INTENT 5.1.2 PURPOSE
5.1.1 DESIGN VISIO The purpose of this section is to serve as a design quide for development in the

The Fashion Place re directly related t

orner of the City Fashion Place West study area. The guidelines in this sectio

southwe

of Murray. The scale of development ranges from single-family and small scale achieving the key design objectives for the district

sltifamily to single-story industrial, to Fashion Place Mall. The vision for new 5.1.2.1 KEY DESIGN OBJECTIVES:

development is to create a walkable, transit-oriented neighborhood. This type

development in the i ea will foster Il seal fill project tla

+ Emphasis on mr edestrian—oriented developments and street that

promote active use of the streets, sidewalks and public spaces
range of housing choices, and an incubator for commercial erve the
nekstiborool Ensure availability of a range of transportation choices including; walking, bicycling
; : transit, and motor vehicles qure m anror t 4s 7 2
he Urbar elines for the Fashion Place West Station ¢ tablist -

- Apply principles of long-term economic, social, an fironmental sustainability in eae
a framewe vtt brant nected, and inclusive community

the design of infrastructure, site, and building development «Corner Sites explains the importance of corner buildings to a streetscape, and
centered tatior sidelin: ate the plan’s core goal

+ Provide the Fashion Place West study area with a distinct character how they should be situated on the lot

| sustainability, acce ) Opportunity, and
+ Treatment of Outdoor Storage and Equipment establishes location and
multimodal mobility—into clear design principles that guide public and private Each guideline includes an intent statement that explains the purpose of the directive
reening guidelines for items has dumpsters and mechanical equipment
Jevelopment to achieve one or more of these overall desian objectives. In many cases, alternative . .
+ Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) guidelines determine the location of the Al i
i i A ; es lutions to the guidelines may be suggested by the developer, designer, or applicant
gether, these design principles provide a cohesive vision for transformation well as the size in comparison to the size of the site
45 long the solution meets the intent statement

one that ensures future development contributes to a livable, sustainable, and

5.2.2. BUILDING DESIGN
5.2 DESIGN GUIDELINES STRUCTURE ¢Ground Floor Details spec fy what types of features the ground floor of street-

facing buildings should have

nt dis re transit, housing, and public spaces

nomically v

Design Guidelines for the Fashion Place West study area contain two sections—Site
+Ground Floor Transparency recommend lous percentages of gr
Design and Building Design. Site Design focuses on how the parcel or piece of
buildings that should be windows, doors, or otherwise transparent
property is designed, while Building Design is the concept of elements of the building
«Prominent Entrances describes the design of building entrances so that they

tself, Each section includes the following guidelines

stand out and create an inviting space

5.2.1. SITE DESIGN «Treatment of Blank Walls advises that blank walls fronting the street or sidewalk

«Building Placement addresses setbacks for buildings, landscaping, and accessory arenot desirable) and. if needed, sould be treated with landscape'or art features
units as example
+ Parking Lot Design and Landscaping guides applicants with the location of sArtioulation relers to the variation In: materielssneiont, and general shape that
buildings should be designed with
parking lots on a site, as well as the use of landscaping to screen parking

+ Transition of Scale addre: development to consider existing

«Lighting suggests lighting types and locations for the public realm such a

jevelopment in terms of height and density. Development adjacent to single

sidewalks, parking lots, and public space
. ; family homes should consider the scale to which the development is near
with pedestrians by allowing +Pedestrian Connections recommends type ich as crosswalks, walking path

nd + Sign Design ablishes q nes te nous lyp { sians fiff t situatio:

nds or ‘ How for plaz and inviting entrance n
TUITING Sf E j and sidewalks, as well as appropriate feature

n terms of materials, size, and location

49


= FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

5.3 SITE DESIGN

5.3.1. BUILDING PLACEMENT 5.3.2. PARKING LOT SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING §.3.3. LIGHTING

To support and encourage pedestrian comfort, convenience and activity, buildings To diminish the amount of impervious surface and visual impact of parked cars, Lighting should ensure a contribution to the character and safety of the streetscape
should create a sense of enclosure within the street corridor, by establishing a direct parking lots should be buffered from other uses, to offer shade to otherwise bare and public spaces, but not disturb adjacent developments and residences.
relationship between buildings and sidewalks. paved areas, and to visually soften expanses of parking.
+ Use City-approved standardized fixtures for sidewalk lighting. Fixtures should be
+ Commercial and mixed-use buildings should be built along the back of the + Parking lots should integrate main drive aisles to appear more like streets, and consistent with adopted light fixture for the study area
sidewalk on all Type | and Type Il streets, adjacent to any public plaza, courtyard, should include sidewalks, landscaping including trees, and pedestrian scaled + Lighting elements throughout and surrounding the site should be complementary,
seating area, or other space intended for public use. lighting. including pedestrian pathway, accent, parking lot lighting, lighting of adjacent
+ Multi-family buildings may include a modest front setback (3-7 feet) to create + Masonry walls and other structural screening features should be used only for developments, and the public right-of-way.
a transition area between the public and private space, Street wall reinforcing corner accents or where screening of headlights is necessary, and should not be + All lighting should be shielded from the sky and adjacent properties and structures,
elements are encouraged to occupy in this setback, such as used as a substitute for landscaping either through exterior full cut-off shields or through optics within the fixture
+ Porches and stoops + Parking aisles should be organized to create a central pedestrian access to + Lighting used in parking lots should not exceed a maximum of 30 feet in height
+ Landscaping building entries. Outer parking aisles may incorporate drainage swales between Pedestrian-scale lighting should be a maximum of 16 feet in height

+3 foot maximum fence height Parking rows + Parking lot lighting should be appropriate to create adequate visibility at night and

rT + Tree Ji > 5! IU e Da areat 2 PE Die =S¥/ a) y © pa . 235 Se
+ Single-family and lower density residential structures on Type Ill streets may have rees should be distributed throughout the parking area to provide ampl evenly distributed to increase security

a front setback of 20-25 feet (or average of two adjacent properties) to maintain shading and visually soften the parking area, roughly 1 tree for every 8 parking

the existing character stalls. Adjacent to single-family residential uses, 1 tree for every 5 stalls should be

planted
+ Detached accessory residential structures, such as accessory dwelling units or

€ -( U a Nd 2 a a c Lal ate Natula ‘a eS, SO U

detached garages should be set 0-10 feet from the back lot line sfouping trees may be allowed to accommodate natural features, so long as the
equivalent number of trees are planted and so long as the grouping is within the
parking area. Curbs or other methods of preventing vehicles from damaging the

trees should be installed

+ Retaining existing trees in parking lots is encouraged

Figure 5.3 The diagram above illustrates the ideal placement of buildings so to maximize the lotas Figure 5.4 Parking lots should not be located along the primary frontage but rather along the
well as addressing the street. n

secondary or at the rear of a building. Parking lots should be screened from sidewalks and

streetscape but still remain comfortable for access by pedestrians.
if f

50



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN = = _ _ _

5.3.4. PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIONS 5.3.5. CORNER SITES 5.3.6. TREATMENT OF OUTDOOR STORAGE, AND
EQUIPMENT

safe { strian passage should be provided through any large blocks or parking lots t mer sites and buildings pro an enhanced pedestrian experience by creating
provide convenient and direct pedestrian connections, and to provide neighborhood isual gateways, public plazas, courtyards and other gathering spaces and hould be used to reduce the visual impacts of storage, trash,
ile open space ind service area
+ Key intersections should be marked with setbacks that allow for public space
* Formalized mid-block pedestria ridors nnections between public right Rather than meeting the corner, new buildings should incorporate forecourt + The total area allowed for outdoor storage of merchandise display should be
highly encouraged, with at least one thr yh-block connection for any block face mer pied by the use € y-Nve
longer than 600 feet + Major entrances should be located at the rners and highlighted by element percent) percent if itis fenced and screened. This standard does not apply t
| non-motorized corridors and ections should include has hig snopies, higher bays, larger windows and door temporary use h as material storage during construction or street vendors
id include landscaping, lighting, and other pedestrian amenities - If potential views to noteworthy natural features and points of interest exist, (either elevator and mechanical equipment on the gr roof should be screened
- Appropriately scaled-pedestrian lighting a ib Nn Sf ld be located and oriented to take advantage of thi + Trast lection and outdoor storage tank areas should be located within enclose
ctures constructed of similar materials and quality of the associated building
Walk y pa eatr
ith a gate that can be closed. The gate should be similarly treated or located in an
alert drive 1e pedestrian right-of potential presence of pedestriar
Alternate building entrances are encouraged t ated on pedestrian
nnections and alley ways to provide a building face along h pathway
t | jnace yt ed¢
/

BUILDING SET BACK

BUILDING ENTRANCE
ortemted to street

PEDESTRIAN PLAZA
VEGETATION = ra
‘a 4

bitvin neart


{ __ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN ~ - -

5.3.7. ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADU)

Jence in the the applicable building code
recognizes that acce ry dwelling units (AD\ n single-family residential nm '

15. The planning comr

can be an important tool in the overall housing plan for the City. The purposes of the ADI ay place other appropriate or more stringent conditions

recommendations are t ed ne ing Al to protect the public safety, welfare and sinale
family character the neighborhood, (Ord
+ Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for 1é
5
farnily membe vhere independent living is desirable.
of the primary residence and in no case shall exceed 1 juare feet
Nake hc ng units available to moderate income t eholds that might otherw 18 | ‘ t I
19, ADUs shall be pied by no more than tv related or unrelated adults and their
| | ff t t }
its in ly neighborhoods that are appropr >ople 20 ere : is
Ww Z e€ K J spa all DE pr 1
; d ; J Ja a J f Tw / 21. Detached ADI hall not be located fr rer | | ind shall meet
5 total area of an attached Al hall be | than 40 per t of the square footag oF pal d
f the pr ry residence id inn e shall
ima af a 24.The n height for detached ADUs is limited to one story and to 20 feet or the
6. ADI hall not ntair re than tw bedi height of the principal structure, whichever is ke
hildre qua’
1
8 | 26 version of existing acce ty building ha 1 garage )
9. Detached A hall not be located in a front or corner lot side yard and shall meet where the existing accessory building meets the ments for a prin
quired for the ¢ fence in th n idence the e andr ypplicable building
10.A detached A shall not exceed the allowable lot or rear yard coverage standard for 27. The planning comr ion may place other appropriate or more stringent condition
11.Detached A hall be compatible with the exterior color and materials of the farnily character of the neighborhood. (Ord. 09
5.3.7.1. EXISTING MURRAY CITY ADU STANDARDS Principal dwelling
ts that a r m of 1 (0 square feet yf the pr pa

35 their permanent residence and at no time receive rent for the owner occupied unit juare leet

52



~ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

53

5.4 BUILDING DESIGN

5.4.1. GROUND FLOOR DETAILS

triar

nd Floor Details reinforce the character of the streetscape and provide pede
menitic
I I
to the interior ceiling to provide f generous space for retailing, service d
taurant function
acades of mercial and mixed-use buildings that face the street sh
+ Kick plates for st
Projecting wir
+ Pedestrian-scale signage
t rior lightir
i t af }
Window box plante
along 30 percent of the length of the facade

yund flo«
g c

- A feature not on the list that meets the intent of the quideline

saomnery sien oon ae fam -
ee. | r

PEDESTRIAN SCALE SGNS

5.4.2. GROUND FLOOR TRANSPARENCY

1 Transparency should utilize building facades to provide

ttable waiting areas for transit and provide visual connections between activitie

™ detween 2-12

40% TRANSPARENCY ; =¥ a eee a
thang seca ey trees TT a re
mare» zane aly . — ~ WINDOWS
j ~~
™~

~ 60% TRANSPARENCY
mony tree ae Hong porary Heels
Pa

nounts of clear



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN .

5.4.3, PROMINENT ENTRANCES

Building

entrances s

ould be designed to readily inform p

»ple of their ac

sand

+ The primary (front) building facade and main entry of nonresidential building

Id be well-marked, articulated and oriented and facing the primary public

street

+ Consider placing the main building entran

+ Entrie

+ Entries

architectural emphasis. A

«Re
+Pr
«El

should be lighted and prote

‘ojecting entries

levated entries with stairways

itry—related cover or roof line
of articulation)

Arched entrie’

Decorative lintels of molding at

Landscape treatment and emp

irface treatment (suc pave

+ Entry courtyard

«Tr,

ansom v

qnage

ted from

variety of techniq

e ata street comer

weather

facing public streets should be made visually prominent

and receive

es to accomplish this include

for residential uses

articulation (such as canopy articulation; parapet

has

*r or tiles

* Other techniques as appropriate

54

n the

5.4.4. TREATMENT OF BLANK WALLS

Blank Wall Treatmen

the abutting street

- Use vegetation,

he use of facad

lith pilaste

»a of wall
Jse artwork, suc
with special pavi

Use architectural

Figure 5.23 In cases whe

trellis structure, show

ts ensure that builc o not display blank, unattractive walls to

or pu

such as trees, shrubs, ground cover or vines adjacent to the wal

face. Green walls are str uraged to manage storm

€ articulation such as expressing the structur

ay

or other detailing should be used to help animate an «

h as bas-relief sculpture, mur
ng.

| detailing, reveals, and contrasting materials

s of trellis structures.

inoff

5 of the building

therwise blank

Use seating areas

5.4.5. ARTICULATION

Building Articulation should reduce the apparent bulk and maintain a human

scale proportion in multi-story or large buildings

iidings should incorporate varied articulation on all sides, The street

facing side(s) should receive the greatest amount of attention with respect

to richness of forms, details, materials, and craft

+ Elements such as sun shades, terraces, and rain water harvesting features
an be used to compose and articulate the building's facade

+ Varied frontages. Building frontages should be divided into relatively si



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN 1. — —— — = — = = — :

5.4.6, TRANSITION OF SCALE 5.4.7. SIGN DESIGN 5.4.7.3. INTEGRATION WITH ARCHITECTURE

Tranisiti scale can be achieved by incorporating additional features into higher

density development when located adjacent to properties with lower density single- 5.4.7.1 PEDESTRIAN ORIENTATION

family use to enhance the compatibility betw

Signage should be part of the overall design

=r) USES ; approach to a project and not added as an
Signs will complement and strengthen the
afterthought element

+ Multi-family and mixed-use development located adjacent to existing single-family pedestrian realn

residential should incorporate three or more of the following architectural features he design of buildings and sites shall
é Recessed entry + Pedestrian signs include projecting sign iSenAIRS Iezation Sn awe for feruie BET
«Dormers (blade signs), window signs (painted on glass As tenants install signs, it is expected that
« Higher quality mate or hung behind glass), logo signs (symbols such signs shall be in conformance with

+ Pitched roof forms an overall sign program that allows for

+ Upper level step backs haracter, proportions, and details of the

+ Window patterns 8 Pedestrian scale signage
+ Flat, blank walls should not be visible from the street or common areas

+ Tree retention or additional vegetative screening along neighboring properties is

encouraged

“Bulldina elon 5.4.7.2. CREATIVITY AND UNIQUE
EXPRESSION

5.4.7.4 COORDINATED WAYFINDING

signage should be interesting, creative, and unique the area

approached to the design of signs
he City should implement a coordinated neighborhood

he design of signs are encouraged to use color identity program in the design of wayfinding signage

graphics, and handcrafted elements

Figure §.31 Wayfinding
i}

ve a

‘onsistent

6
URBAN CENTER URBAN CORE

55


= FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN _ - 7

7 IMPLEMENTATION >

56



7.1 IMPLEMENTATION INTRODUCTION

The Fashion Place West Station Area Plan provides a framework for guiding the

growth and transformation of the neighborhoods surrounding the Fashion Place
West light rail station, one of the most strategically located transit nodes in the

Salt Lake Valley. The area serves as a crossroads between Murray City and Midvale
City, a key access point to the TRAX Blue and Red Lines, and a regional commercial
destination centered around Fashion Place Mall. As such, the station area presents

a unique opportunity to create a vibrant, transit-oriented, and inclusive community
that supports economic development, improves neighborhood quality, and expands

access to opportunity for all residents.

Tnis implementation strategy focuses on five catalytic projects that together are
capable of reshaping the station area physically, economically, and socially. These
projects—each involving multiple partners and phased investment—form the
structure of the implementation sequencing across 5-year, 10-year, and 10+-year

horizons. They include

1. Redevelopment of UTA Property Around the Station into a mixed-use, transit
oriented district with housing, employment, retail, and civic amenities that
activate the station environment and increase transit ridership.

2. Redevelopment of Surface Parking at Fashion Place Mall into a mixed-use jobs
and housing center, transforming underutilized land into a walkable district that
complements the regional retail environment

3. State Street Corridor Enhancements, aligning with the “Life on State" vision, to
improve pedestrian safety, transit access, and economic vitality along one of the

region's most important commercial corridors

4, Jefferson Park Redesign into a modern, multi-generational community public

Conceptual rendering of redevelopment around the Fashion Place TRAX station area.

space that reinforces neighborhood identity and supports health, recreation, and

gathering
5. Potential Commercial and Mixed-Use Development Coordinated with the These catalytic projects align with and advance the core goals of the Station Area (iii) Improve Access to Opportunity: Expand housing choice, employment
Winchester Bridge Replacement, creating new access, visibility, and development Plan: access, and transportation connectivity for all residents,

potential along a key east-west connection
(i) Improve Neighborhood Quality: Enhance walkability, public space,

housing options, and community identity.
(ii) Increase Transit Ridership: Create development and public realm

improvements that encourage daily transit use

57


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

7.2 IMPLEMENTATION TASK MATRIX: occur. It organizes the plan’s recommendations into clear, trackable steps that align responsible parties, potential funding strategies, expected timeframes, and the
with Murray City’s policies, capital improvement priorities, and ongoin rtnerships telationship to the plan's core goals: increasing housing availabi =]
The implementation matrix for the Fashion Place West Station Area Plan serves as ‘ 4 : po P p ; P h going Pa P P 9 a heusinig avallabiity and affordability,
7 ; 7 with UTA, UDOT, private property owners, and regional housing and economic romoting environmental sustainability, enhanci
a practical roadmap for translating the plan's vision into coordinated, achievable P PIRREE ba 9 i 9 s cing access to. opportunities and
development organizations, expanding transportation choices, By i t
action, While the broader plan outlines the desired future for the station area il 9 P 9 re m-consclidating these elements ii one place,

; the implementation matrix gives decision-makers, staff, and community partners
featuring more housing choices, sustainable design, improved mobility options, and This matrix provides an at-a-glance summary of projects, programs, and policy :
; a shared framework to guide annual budgeting, grant pursuits, infrastructure
stronger connections to jobs and services—the implementation matrix explains adjustments, including near-term actions that can catalyze redevelopment and

upgrades, zoning amendments, and private development negotiations—ensuring
that the station area evolves in a deliberate, equitable, and transit-oriented way.

how those goals will be realized, who will take the lead, and when progress can long-term initiatives requiring Coordinated investment. Each action item identifies

Project Action Lead Organizations | Partnering Organizations | Y1 | Y2 | Y3 | Y4/ Y5 year iced FUNDING SOURCES NOTES
Updates to mixed use zoning Murray City UTA, private property owners Murray General Fund (staff time allocations), WFRC
regulation for station area, specific to grant, State grants
contextural densities
Station Area Coordination with UTA and other UTA - Murray City, private property owners iz || Prvate development, Murray City ; UTA motivated to serve as catalytic project for
Redevelopment private property owners the area
Initial market study and parking study | UTA, Murray City Murray City, private property owners
for development coordinated with
UTA TOD strategic team |
RFP for development partner and UTA, Murray City Murray City, private property owners 7 _ -
project phasing
a BC a } es == = =

Murray City Tax Increment Funds

Improvements to public | Murray City
infrastructure to facilitate improved
station area

on-going maintenance, coordination Increment Funds

Establish funding for design efforts & | Murray City Murray City Parks department Murray City Parks Budget, Murray Tax Increment Park improvements identified in current Murray
visioning Funds City Parks Master Plan
Identify funding for construction and | Murray City Murray City Parks department Murray City Parks Impact Fees, Murray Tax

Jefferson Park with SLCo.
Improvements / - | ae —_ 7 -
Design & Construct park Murray City Salt Lake County Stormwater Murray City Parks Impact Fees, Murray Tax
Management Increment Funds
On-going coordination and Murray City Salt Lake County Stormwater Murray City Parks Budget
maintenance with SLCo stormwater Management
team
Establish funding source for design Murray City Murray City general fund, UDOT grants, State and Catalytic project on State Street in SLC
and construction County instigated and funded by SLC with UDOT
_ ee ; = | _ _ / | coordination :
Coordination with UDOT and private | Murray City UDOT, private property owners, Murray City general fund Part of Life on State Master Plan document
Life on State property owners along State Street Fashion Place Mall ownership
Improvements - — —--- - -- -— — _ — = =
Design & construct improvements Murray City, UDOT UDOT Murray City general fund In conjunction with improvements in City

Center area

fy



Project Lead Organizations Partnering Organizations FUNDING SOURCES NOTES

Ownership currently investigating options for
mixed use development on parking lots

Fashion Place Mall
ownership

Establish vision for mixed use site
approach

Murray City, UDOT Murray City, private development

_ | = - _
New mixed use zone to be created in

Updates to zoning regulation along Murray City Fashion Place Mall ownership Murray City
Fashion Place Mall Site | State Street collaboration with property owners
Mixed Use Redevelopment - -
Phasing Plan for site redevelopment | Fashion Place Mall Murray City, UDOT, funding partners Private development
ownership

= | = 22 =o 5 5 = es =

Construction of new development —_| Fashion Place Mall Private development, Murray Tax Long-term redevelopment vision
ownership Increment funds
: i - = 1 _ 7 _
Establish timeline and vision for UDOT Murray City, funding partners Murray City, UDOT Bridge replacement estimated at 2034
bridge reconstruction
+ = — +— 1 _— = - ——
; Identify and coordinate with funding | Murray City UDOT Murray City, private development,
Winchester Bridge Rebuild | and development partner Connected Communities Grant
and Reconnection
Construct bridge and establish UDOT Murray City UDOT, private development partner Long lead time estimated on legal structure and
ownership structure for retail spaces ownership plan
—— es 5 = = 3 fi —— [= - 7 =
Sidewalk Improvement Plan Murray City, Midvale City | UDOT, UTA Murray City, Midvale City Sidewalk condition plan identified in this
Station Area Plan
Cycling Network Improvements Murray City, Midvale City | UDOT, UTA Grant funding, Murray City, Midvale City
Additional Area Initiatives
m _ cl . u 4 {_ _

59 iy


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN : =

7.2.1. CATALYTIC PROJECT: FASHION PLACE MALL MIXED USE REDEVELOPMENT

BEGIN WITH A VISION Key strategies and tools. Use phased land disposition or ground-lease
structures so the mall owner can monetize parcels while retaining income:
Converting the Fashion Place Mall and surrounding acres of surface parking into zs F * PAREORIES

. reate a master developer agreement and design code tnat enforces a fine-
a walkable, mixed-use “town center” stitched into the transit and street network

: grained block pattern, active ground floors, and transit Connections. Pursu
Belmar, Colorado transformed an enclosed mall into a 22-block urban district

public incentives for brownfield remediation, affordable housing, and parking
with retail, offices

dences, parks and civic uses—showing scale, flexibility, and

garages, leverage TIF/URAs or special taxing districts to fund streets and parks.
market appetite for phased work

Coordinate closely with UDOT on State Street access and with UTA on transit

Phase 1 Tactical & catalytic (0-3 years). Keep existing anchors and key retail node improvements to maximize walkability and reduce auto dependence

operating where profitable to maintain cash flow. Carve out a first “block” along
. Risks & mitigations. Retail attrition, parking politics, and phased infrastructure
the mall edge for pilot interventions: a mid-rise residential building (estimate 9 F 9P P

, : osts are real. Mitigate with a flexible phasing plan that keeps anchors while
4—6 stories), a grocery or daily-needs ground floor ter

t

new public

7 incrementally removing surface parking, and by delivering visible early wins
plaza activated with weekly markets and events. Create temporary pedestrian ving f a 9 vis :

(plaza, grocery, pilot housing) to build constituency and private capital
pathways through parking areas and install stormwater landscaping to J F 9 f F
demonstrate placemaking. Early projects de-risk the site, start preleasing, and Outcome. Over a decade-plus the Fashion Place site can transition from an
build political/market momentum

auto-oriented mall to a resilient, mixed-use town center —following the Belmar

yxecedent of incremental blocks, anchor QubIic spaces, an verse uses that
Existing conditions of Fashion Place Mall site near corner of State Street and Winchester Street Phase 2 f V ental blocks, anchored public spa: and diverse uses tha’

Infrastructure & street grid (3-7 years), Replace large parking
together create a sustainable urban district
expanses with a network of new public streets, short blocks, and on-street
parking; build one or two parking structures to consolidate stalls and free land
for development. Prioritize a main “high-street” connecting transit stops to the
new civic plaza—this becomes the retail spine and pedestrian priority zone
Belmar's redevelopment emphasized pedestrian-scaled streets and plazas as the

organizing element; replicate that spatial logic

Phase 3 Mixed-use build-out (7-15 years). Layer housing (for-sale
'y

ownhomes, mid-rise apartments, and sorne worklorce/alfordable units),

space, and hotel/entertainment where market supports it. Target at least two

ross-subsidizing product types: residential for steady demand and office/

medical/education tenants for daytime activity. Introduce green infrastructure

and nine+ acres of parks/plazas at strategic nodes to create civic identity

Belmar’s mix of parks, plazas and anchors (groc

1, cinema, big-box anchors

reimagined) sustained long-term vibrancy.

Future concept for conversion of parking lots to mixed use district with parking structures, housing, employment and public spaces

60



| FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN — — ——= = eee —

7.2.2. CASE STUDY: BELMAR

LAKEWOOD, COLORADO
NEIGHBORHOOD DATA

t r MEDIAN MEDIAN MEDIAN
The transformation of the former Villa Italia Mall into the Belmar mixed-use district in RENTAL PRICE HOME VALUE HOUSEHOLD INCOME

Lakewood, Colorado s he most influential suburban redevelopment projects

in the United States. Originally opened in 1966, Villa Italia was once the largest enclosed Hei

shopping mall in the Mountain West, but by the 1990s it had entered a steep decline as Gi beste! —\ Oo ik . SS

consumer preferences shifted toward lifestyle centers and online retail. Recognizing both $1,595 93,151 $86,019 The Hyatt House Hotel in the Belmar area.
pavress The plaza in the warmer months is home RERREE TSR R NE econ Sis nt CCN oar

the physical deterioration and the lost economic potential of the 100-acre site, the City of POPULATION POPULATION BUSINESSES to festivals and markets

Lakewood partnered with Continuum Partners and the Lakewood Reinvestment Authority a @ a , y oy Y .

to envision a completely new urban center for the community. r a

Instead of attempting incremental renovation, the redevelopment team elected to 1,264 4,066

demolish much of the aging mall and replace it with a walkable s grid composed

of roughly 22 urban blocks. This move reintroduced connectivity to surrounding

neighborhoods and allowed the site to function like a traditional downtown rather than Many of the retail spaces are loc Housing is ther

the ground floor, with residential o1 development in £

a superblock dedicated solely to retail. Belmar’s new form integrates a wide range of uses

ind-fl

ipper floor

Is, entertainment venues, and several

orc i ps and restaurants, office space,

types of housing—including apartments, townhomes, and condominiums—placed close SQUARE FEET OF DEVELOPMENT BY
to transit and everyday amenities. TYPE

Public spaces were central to the redevelopment strategy. Plazas, pocket parks, and art A i rer

MKLION
installations were woven throughout the district to encourage social interaction and RESIOBATIAL

create a sense of place. The project also confronted legacy environmental issues, including i orrice

remediation of contaminated soils, while investing in upgraded infrastructure such as MILLION EE werrruTiona

pedestrian-friendly streetscapes, stormwater systems, and multimodal connections

2
Belmar has delivered significant long-term economic benefits to Lakewood. It diversified uae
the city’s tax base, attracted new employers, supported several thousand residents within my
walking distance of jobs and services, and generated sustained retail and hospitality activity °

Just as importantly, it reshaped the identity of Lakewood by creating a recognizable urban

The largest land use after redevelopment of thi

imar area is residential,

core where none existed before

with a reduction in the overall amount of retail are footage.

The redevelopment is now widely cited as a model for transitioning aging suburban
malls into vibrant mixed-use districts. Its success demonstrates that with strong public
private partnerships, thoughtful urban design, and a commitment to walkability, large

underperforming retail sites can become dynamic centers of community life, economic

activity, and sustainable suburban evolution

61 {ny


FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

7.2.3. CATALYTIC PROJECT: TRAX STATION AREA REDEVELOPMENT

Redevelopment around the Fashion Place West TRAX station represents a shorten walking distances, and create multiple front doors to the stat

ny, Traffic
significant opportunity to transition an auto-oriented area into a walkable, transit- calming, bike lanes, lighting upgrades, and improved crosswalks ensure that
supportive neighborhood anchored by a major regional mobility asset. Because movement to and from the station is safe and intuitive for all ages and abilities

UTA owns several parcels directly adjacent to the station, these sites can serve as

. . P Retail strategy should shift from auto-oriented, high-turnover commercial uses
catalytic first-phase projects that demonstrate market confidence, establish an $

toward daily needs and “third places” that encourage lingering—coffee snops,
identifiable place, and encourage surrounding property owners to follow with Y val e e J Ps

cafes, small grocers, fitness, personal services, co-working, and medical or
reinvestment. The evolution would likely take place incrementally over a decade

fessional offices. Upper floors provide a mix of rental and for-sale housing,
or more—and should be driven by a clear, shared framework: create walkable Pp P! 9

ncluding workforce and attainable units that benefit from reduced transportation
blocks, concentrate density near the station, provide everyday services within a Sot 2

. rt . With incre ! ;
short walk, and establish high-quality public spaces. costs due to proximity to transit. With increased residential population, the

neighborhood can support more public amenities: pocket parks, community
Initial phases start with the UTA-owned parcels. These sites are ideally suited for gardens, playgrounds, or greenways that connect to nearby open spaces

a first generation of mixed-use development, likely including mid-rise residential

‘ s By the later phases, redevelopment becomes self-sustaining. As land values rise
buildings (4-7 stories), ground-floor neignborhood-serving retail, and structured

and the district gains identity, private owners nearby will find redevelopment
parking that reduces surface parking dependency. Early development should 3 YF Y F

. i not only viable but desirable. Buildings become taller and more varied, and the
include a publicly accessible plaza or linear “station street" that directly links the Y ° J

train platforms to State Street or other key neighborhood connectors. This public station transitions from a commuter parking node into a complete neighborhood

- . center. The success of this approach depends on coordinated zoning updates,
realm element is crucial; it signals a shift from station-as-parking-lot to station-as

P ar in de a financing te for si red parking and public
neighborhood-center. The first buildings s! clear urban design standards, financing tools for structured parking and public

ould be designed with active ground

space improvements, and a shared commitment by UTA and the city to prioritize
floors, wide sidewalks, street trees, and weather-protective awnings cr overhangs Ps Pe = y YP

walkability and transit f auto throughput
to make walking comfortable year-round. alkab ity Sri tana Se NEL a) ugnpu

= Over time, the Fashion Place West station area can evolve into a lively, connected
As the initial UTA developments lease up and stabilize, the next wave of i ' . ¥ =

transit-oriented neighborhood—one that supports housing choice, strengthens
reinvestment can extend outward. Adjacent underutilized parcels—such as large J ° PF J 9

ocal business opportunities, and offers a compelling alternative to auto-

surface parking lots, single-story retail pads, and low-intensity office sites—begin

dominated development
to redevelop into similar mixed-use formats. This second phase is where district- ° P
scale change becomes visible: a basic walkable street network is created by

introducing new public or publicly-accessible streets that break up superblocks,

Future concept for conversion of underutilized land near the station area to a mixed-used neighborhood.

62



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN _|-

63

7.2.9. CASE STUDY: CENTRAL NINTH
850 S 200 W, SALT LAKE CITY

ver the past decade, the Cer

idergone a notable transitic

yrridor into a vibrant, mixed-\

nthe early 2¢ 5, the neight

tral Ninth neigh!

se urban neighborhood

hood -— originally dominated by

hood in §

a largely industrial and a

alt Lake (

ise yuto repair yards, and under-utilized parcel began to attract

attention as an area of potential reinve

FB-UN2) around 2013 that rel

cw auTH
MIXED URE

axed parking requirements, €

ty to downtown, the City adopted a form-basé

tment. With transit access in
d Zoning

ncourage

ity has

rVICE

ar-onented

place
ode

sd mid

NEIGHBORHOOD DATA

DAYTIME MEDIAN MEDIAN
POPULATION POPULATION RENTAL PRICE HOME VALUE
x

2,433 6,670

$1,269 $293,015

TIME TO GET TO...

via TRAX

DOWNTOWN UNIVERSITY SANDY DAYBREAK AIRPORT

By 2015-2016, the C9 Mark

anchoring the commercial c

residential projects follow

tation, bringing more perr

iblic realm & streetscap

Recognizing the need for a

uth streetscape betweer

trees, buried utilities, on-street parking, a!

Emerging outcomes

oday Central Ninth is incre

veighborhoods. Local news

Jestination e mix of MOL

re with small-scale foc

ved business hub on 1

1, retail and comn

ariented space. Multi-family

J, including the C9 Flats (97 units) and other mixed-use developments near the

nent residents int

improvements

asingly cited as one

retail, offices, and

the neighborhood

main-street” feel, the RDA invested approximately

t: wider sidewalks, a two

improved pedestrian connectivity

menities around t

of Salt Lake City’s most walkable and transit-orier

neighborhood identity, added residents, supported local businesses, and lever

Ch t

steps

allenges & nex

Nhile progress has been s
nanage infrastructure der

that even infrastructural cc

Over the last ten years the

million in the 906

way cycle track, street

describes it as a place that has gone “from car-centered to a walkable

aged the transit connectior

and { enhance public spaces. For example, the u ning Mead Up Project
amp a nunily plaza and rer nal space, showing

nstraints are being addressed

Central Ninth neight

orhood has transformed throuc

{ targeted infill developn

viable urban neighborhood rather than a leftover industrial fringe

jh coordinated transit

tabl

r

7 Arts Center, located

> comer of


| FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN - — a

7.2.5. CATALYTIC PROJECT: JEFFERSON PARK

The detention basin on Travis James Lane is a sigmficant opp ity to provide the

neighborhood with a unique green space, but also play a role in modernizing elements of Rendering of potential future improvements to the Jefferson Detention Basin including a
the Salt Lake County Flood Control network looping pedestrian/tricycle path, climbing rocks, a turf play field, and off-leash dog area
Native plantings cc ize part of the basin to create a green oasi
he Jefferson Detention Basin Is a large, undeveloped green space that is dry
for most of the year, Hillside amenities and facilities that can withstand water FUTURE PLANS
Existi r f Jefferson Park neighborhood \

when flooded will substantially improve recreation opportunities for nearby When Murray City adopted its Parks and Recreation Master Plan in April
neighbors of 2020, the Jefferson Detention Basin park project was identified as an

upcoming project. Development opportunities include creating a terraced
hill, with seating at the top and a hill slide or hill climber extending down
into the basin

+ Jefferson Detention Basin Development: 3-5 year

+ Developed Acres Added: 4.3

+ Project Description: Add nature play elements, walking paths, and family

gathering space to meet the needs of nearby neighbors
+ Project Type: Park Enhancement/ Expansion
+ Estimated Capital Cost: $500,000

+ Standard level annual maintenance cost: $35,000

Future concept for conversion of Jefferson Park with investment fram Murray City into a neighborhood park

64



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —— = = — ————

7.2.6. CASE STUDY: TANNER SPRINGS PARK

PORTLAND, OREGON

Located in the heart of the Pearl District in Portland, Oregon, Tanner Springs Park is a roughly Over 70 species of native plants (to the Willamette Valley) populate the site: sedges, emergent

ether ecol

ac) urban park opened in 2005 that brings te jes, Oregon white oak, grasses and more

al restoration wetland speci

storm-water innovation, art, and quiet respite in a dense downtown setting
hese plantings support birds and other wildlife in the urban context and help communicate

Primary Elements the idea of nature returning

This site occupies what was once a natural wetland and shallow lake fed by Tanner Creek

before being filled for railroad yards and industry
A dramatic “Art Wall” along the east edge of the park is made of 368 reclaimed railroad rails set

Tr

=sign intentionally “peels back” urban skin to hint at that historic ecology: transitions of vertically, with 99 pieces of fused blue glass bearing hand-painted insects and amphibians

oak woodland, prairie, emergent wetland and pond are expressed across the block

e cobbles/ballast) and

ed basalt blocks (o

Paths are made fror generous terraces

All rainwater falling on the park block and adjacent curbs is collected and treated on-site. The along the pond invite qu et seating reflection
esign incorporates runnels, filtrat biotor ultraviolet treatment and a pond sunk about
1.8 m below street level : f . , vail ooh T ,

Co. ustainability with an adapti agement approach, Friends of T r Springs Park

viewing, It slopes gently down, leads you from open meadow into water and wetland, and ‘ ‘1 f
mmunity group that ) the need for more comm ark

he water feature thus functions not only for aesthetics but as an operational ecological iffers a trast the bustling surrounding maintenance and use. They collaborate with Portland Park and Recre
ystem—rather tran routing all runoff to conventic rm dra

SUCCESSES

- : ro ——

a viable model of urban storm-wa

demonstra f management integrated with public

space

Sense of place & neighborhood identity: In a formerly industrial block, the park helped

y-scaled

‘urban oasis” and madel of sust

Engagement & art integration: The way heritage materials (rail tracks) and art (glass panels)

are woven into the landscape narrative (from wetland to rail yard to urban park) has been

ly lauded

y, the park was designed to ech«

Biodiversity in an urban core: The native planting and water ecology support wildlife (e.g., ) settlement that is now endangered oak savanna and

ping chara S$ of th ark mimic the sloping of the
birds, insects) in a downtown setting, showing nature can thrive amid dense development i
istainability: The impervious s of tf environment produce excessive precipitation runoff with
f y ft ’ . Recognition & influence: The park has earned awards (ASLA Merit Award Ore haoter

1006) and is frequently cited in literature on green infrastructure and urban design



a FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN =

7.2.7. CATALYTIC PROJECT: WINCHESTER BRIDGE

Future streetscape improvements along the Winchester Bridge would
enhance the pedestrian experience and encourage use of more active

transportation methods

Current conditions on the Winchester Street bridge create a disconnect
between the TRAX station and Fashion Place Mall for pedestrians and
bicyclists. Improving this bridge in two separate phases would improve

overall connectivity as well as access to the TRAX station
FUTURE PLANS

UDOT and Murray City have determined that the reconstruction of the
Cottonwood and Winchester Street bridges are scheduled to occur by
2034

1. Phase | could include the reconstruction of the current bridge
including improved pedestrian and bicycle access, sidewalks,

planted park strip, and painted bike lanes

2. Phase Il could entail the construction of an adjacent bridge on
the west side of the current bridge. This second bridge could link

the two neighborhoods with buildings and storefronts on a single

level—creating a pedestrian and bicycle friendly experience across
the bridge, and to the TRAX station.

Fut

diagrams above, would enh

@ streetscape improvements along the Winchester Bridge as shown in the two
the pedestrian experience and encourage use of more

active transportati

66



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —— : : eer a

7.2.8. CASE STUDY: RIALTO BRIDGE
COLUMBUS, OHIO

BACKGROUND highway, and one on either side for the retail structures. Construction of the ¢

with the develo

structures

er beginning work on the buildings in April 2003

an IN 2

The Cap at Union Station in Columbus, Ohio demonstrates how bec

iments can partner with the private sector to create and share value in

REGULATORY HURDLES
AIR RIGHTS

highway-related investments

Before the construction of The Cap at Union Station Project, a 200 foot Gaining air rights over the development proved to be a hurdle. When the original interstate was
long, chainlink-fence bordered walkway spanned the busy highway below, nstructed, the state acquired only ground rights. The process required two years to find th
creating a no man’s land owners of the air rights and for the City to procure clear title to the Project site

To heal the scar created by the inter

te, the solution was be to build a hard PERMITS FROM FHWA
The FHWA

laces restrictions on use of highway easements for commercial use. It requires that

ve of the Cap v

cap over the expre to create pedestrian

ged to the developer for

in order for an easement to be granted, fair market rent must be ct

ved the City and ex

and retail space

use of the Cap platforms. This proved challenging for several reasons. Ultimately, the City was

interest in investing in the Project. The company signed a m

orandum of

fe

an alternative arrangement whereby the City share in 10 percent of

joper and the City Jeveloper for a nominal $1 per year) DESIGN

he City spent $115,000 on the preliminary design needed to secure the necessary regulatory

understanding with the City in 19% jointly develop a cap

Under the terms of the Memorandum between the de

+ The City would pursue clear title to the air rights above the highway and MARKET CONSIDERATIONS

obtained permission from Ohio Department of Transportation (ODO 5,000 of this cost

approvals, The developer reimbursed the City ‘

Key to the economic viability of the Project the developer's ability to secure long-term

and the Federal Highway Adminis yn (FHWA) to construct the Cap

EONS! CONSTRUCTION OF THE CAP AND BRIDGES

platforms ;
percent higher than

secured tenants willing to pay rents that were approximately 20 to 3 of the three bridges. The City paid an

ODOT eed to pay $1.3 million for the constructio

+Once the above was achieved, the eloper would enter a ground lease

e in the surrounding area. The higher rents were enabled because tenants valued the

additional $325,000 required to extend utilities to the platform via the concrete bay

sloper also took care

cachet of the new location, and proximity to nearby attractions. The dev
to ensure a mix of day and night tenants to keep the space as active as possible The space CONSTRUCTION OF THE RETAIL BUILDING

wine bar, a clothing store, an apparel and gift shop, and a few smaller Ihe developer assumed the entire ¢ of the impr

currently features

specialty food stores. the construction, the developer originally used conventional loan options and an equity

contribution for the $7 million dollar price tag. The developer also received a ten-year, 100
KEY PARTNERSHIPS percent tax abatement on the property for the City, improving the Projects’ economics
CITY-DEVELOPER

he City worked with the

TAKEWAYS

-roject

ive partnership between a private developer, a City, a state

across a bridge an in

DOT and FHWA to support urban development

FHWA-CITY

ince the FHWA funded the original construction of the expre

- The project demonstrates how Interstate widening projects can contribute to urban

sway, the alternative use of the

renewal with limited incremental cost to government

for the platforms and construct the buildings

highway easement required FH approval and buy-in

)00 in architectural
construction of the buildings on ODOT-CITY

the Cap. Similarly, since ODOT would be operating the highway, all of the design elements of the Project

67 ry



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

7.2.9. CATALYTIC PROJECT: LIFE ON STATE IMPROVEMENTS

The State Street corridor in Murray is one of the most visible and heavily traveled 1. Speed management, such as narrowing lanes or introducing landscaped

areas in the city, yet it remains an environment that Is difficult to navigate on ns to naturally calm traffi

foot, challenging to bike safely, and visually disconnected from the surrounding 2. Signal timing improvements that prioritize pedestrian crossings at key desire
civic and commercial identity of Murray. Between Winchester Street and 6200 lines, especially mall entrances and bus stops.

South, the corridor serves as both a commercial gateway—anchored by Fashion 3. Pedestrian refuge islands and raised or high-visibility crosswalks to reduce
Place Mall—and a connector between established neighborhoods, transit crossing stress

services, and cornmunity destinations. By applying and adapting the principles 4. Transit priority improvements, such as bus pullouts or in-lane stops
developed through Salt Lake City’s *Life on State” initiative, Murray City has the depending on service patterns

opportunity to reshape this segment of State Street into a safer, more appealing, This early-stage coordination sets the foundation for future capital

and more economically dynamic place.
and more eco cally dynamic plac improvements and strengthens the case for regional funding partnerships

CONTEXT AND OPPORTUNITY ENHANCING THE PUBLIC REALM THROUGH STREETSCAPE

The Fashion Place Mall district is one of Murray’s largest retail and employment IMPROVEMENTS

centers, supported by major arterial access and transit service nearby. However, The “Life on State* process placed heavy emphasis on reclaiming the street

the street environment along this seqment is today primarily auto-oriented, edge as a place for people. Along Murray's segment, this translates to a set of

with wide curb-to-curb distances, limited shade or pedestrian amenities, and

streetscape strategies

disconnected walking and biking infrastructure. The corridor functions as

Existing conditions of State

Stree! yu e Fashion Place West project are
treet through the Fashion Place West project area. 1. Wide sidewalks with shade trees, lighting, and street furnishings to create a
a high-speed, high-throughput roadway owned and maintained by UDOT

more comfortable pedestrian environment year-round
meaning any transformation requires a coordinated, phased, and policy-aligned

2. Protected or buffered bike lanes where right-of-way allows, prioritizing safe

approach between Murray City and the state. The experience of “Life on State”

and continuous north-south movement
demonstrates that progress is both possible and impactful when shared corridor

3. Landscaped medians with trees and low-maintenance plantings to visually
goals are established early.

narrow the right-of-way and reduce vehicle speeds
The central opportunity for Murray is to reposition the corridor as a multimodal 4. Stormwater planters and green infrastructure that contributes to regional
environment that supports incremental redevelooment—from infill commercial environmental goals while creating softer, more attractive street edges
upgrades to potential future mixed-use redevelopment of large surface parking

These improvements should be phased and aligned with regular UDOT

areas—while improving safety and comfort for all users. Achieving this requires 2avement and rehabilitation cycles to maximize efficiency

coordinated planning, design experimentation, and public-private partnership

Long-term implementation will likely involve a combination of local capital
ESTABLISHING SHARED CORRIDOR GOALS WITH UDOT investment, UDOT corridor funding, federal safety or multimodal grants, and

private cost-sharing. Establishing a clearly documented corri

first ster lignment wit Te A the ‘unctional on forthe rrid € vision and cr

As seen in Life on State, reframing the roadway from a highway to a civic street agency work plan is critical to securing such funding

requires agreement on target speeds, roadway cross-section priorities, and long

Qo term mobility goals. Murray City could initiate a joint corridor working group

Future streetscape improvements along State Street would enhance the pedestrian experience and encourage of more active with UDOT staff to evaluate opportunities for

transportation methods, as well as improving the quality of urban form and value.

68



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN __ | —

7.2.10. CASE STUDY: “LIFE ON STATE” SALT LAKE CITY
SALT LAKE CITY, 600 SOUTH - 800 SOUTH

d medians and street tre he project will install new median planting island

and increase the number of trees along the corridor
The Life tate initiative is a major corridor-rev talization effort alor
3. Public art installation: As part of placemaking, the t will install neon-inspired artworks

the State Street (US-89) corridor in Salt Lake City, led by Salt Lake City

4 |
ind 7| planned
5. Uparades to transit stops and amenities: New t helte the @Ride (Utat snsit
isib Authority) syster proved dr 4Y approache rb extensions and oth
implementation zone of the broader plan. This stretch is intended to me f
pilot and dem trate how the wide rridor can shift away from an 6 paving and re facing: This includes demolition of old sidewalk/cutb/me

ef

DIRESTIENGY, Ulan AVE NU WHY THIS STRETCH WAS PRIORITIZED fe on State’ street improver sit Lake City leted in 2024 witt

GOALS AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES ve jlart a j tev

he Life on State Implementation Plan outlines several key goals for this levard with place identity, helping perceptions and faster a more
rridor. These includ (a) It sits just th of the downtown core and is poised for higher density redevelopment street edge
"i ‘ " ” " ? (b) |
2. Mobility and trans, n options: Improving “a pling tontag CHALLENGES AND CONSIDERATIONS
(c) By implementing early in this high-visibility area, the city aims to catalyze private j z
ray al : investment and show real change to the public. For example, project communication Is ion with state highway jurisdiction: Because State Street (US-89) is under
vity ; ; eo the jurisdiction of the Utah Department of Transportation (UL mMplementati
public-art features to create a str yer sense of place 2 arge le i i} | lv
4, Equity and livability: Creating a welcoming environment for all modes ANTICIPATED IMPACTS ommercial, residential, transit-oriented). The 600-8 tret |
travel, supporting local businesses, and improving the street in a way that (a) Enhanced pedestrian experience: With wider sidewalk jitional trees and r longer-term consistency and follow-through across the entire corridor will be critical
t jhbor Yi and improved crossings, the tridor is expecte be more comfortable for walking, 3. Maintaining business acce tt ) shifts away from wide lanes and
MG auto dominance, there may be n lo inesses about acce and parking.
. - (b) Better transit and multi Jal access: New bus shelters and improved curb infrastructure Ensuring that the redesign supports existing businesses while improving public real
“ th seqme the ect d entation identifi will help transit users; in addition, the broader Life on State Bikeways initiative wi ensitive balance
f ide parallel high-comfort routes for cyclist 4. Construction disruption: ¢ truction on a major corridor can be disruptive to adjacent
(c) Catalyzing redevelopment: By improving the public realm, the project support businesses and residents; the project website edges this and thanks area reside
TyWidee:pecestiian alks are being expanded to allow mor private investment in the corridor, For example, redevelopment at 754 S State Street and businesses for patience


= FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN —— . aes

70



| __ FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN SS = — : : — ee

6.1 PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY When participants wereasked which or Murray’ fiveckey IniBatives (estat mins

eneral Plan) seem most related to this neighborhood, many felt that Livable and Vibrant

6.1.1 OPEN HOUSE Neighborhoods and Multi-Modality were most applicable

In February 12, 2020 Murray City along with the cor tant team, held a public ope
ici so ea mAASeeat tne Rene he questionnaire asked respondents about their impressions of the study area and what

house at the Clark Cushing Senior Center, locate vithin the northern portion of the study

they have experienced, and would like to see changed
area. The objective of the open house was to educate the public about existing conditions
in the area and the goals of the Fashion Place West Station Area Plan, as well as to gain When asked what types of destinations they wished were in the neighborhood, the most

feedback and insight from the participants about many key components. A series of ter common answers weté

boards and indi yuestionnaires were used to inform, and gather feedback

Public space/park
ng the approximately 35 individuals that participated, half said that they lived in the + Dining
tudy ai

nd the other half were commuters or Murray residents, Most participants had + Grocery/market

positive reactions planning process, while also expressing their desire for better

°n asked what type of t ing they would occupy in the next phase of life, the
with the City’s vision for the Station Area Plar

onnectivity in the area, which aligr

majority of respondents answered
he most frequently asked question from participants w What development is being + Single-Family t
nge plan for th ea, even though there was no development pro nm the A N + (AT >
far 1S afd, asf f Ate «Accessory Dwelling Unit (Al + What types of housing do you wish were available

horizor

6.1.2 SURVEY + What housing i e neighborhood

.
Co venient While originally scheduled to hold a second open house, due to safety concerns related t A majority of respondents appreciate the convenient and central location of the Fashion
U iet the COVID pandert y staff the consultant team conducted an enti urlvey Place West neighborhood. When asked questions regarding access for bicycles and

from May 20th through June 20th. Residents, commuters, shoppers, and other interested pedestrians, many respondents expressed desire for better sidewalks and more bicycle

parties were invited to participate by answering a series of 18 questions. The survey was | Acommon ¢ Mm trroughout the survey responses w round traffic int

IY C advertised through social media channels and received over 130 response: Fashion Place West neighborhood, and the area becoming busier. Because of this concern
SV The goal of the survey was to gauge respondents’ understanding of the component fates, wees _ . on - eananeacenrmenamecenae
ffi C rowded onnectivity expansion, housing options, and design guideline: When respondents were asked about the types of housing that they wished were in the
oisy neighborhood, many felt that mid-density housing types such as cottage clusters, ADUs
pOl a orgesiee Anumt ‘ f survey que si tood out as good indicators of concerns that resident and duplex/triplex units would make a good addition. When asked about housing issues
2 have and what they would like to see more of. Those included they felt the study faced, many respondents expressed the need for more housing
hopp! ng « What four words would you use to describe the attributes of the Fashion Place West aff
neighborhood?

Dow Overall, the survey was a key component to the blic engagement approach, giving
n + What is your primary destination when you visit the neighborhood? , f ' ’ Pr }

words would you use to describe the attributes of the Fashion Place

hat do you see as challenges facing the neighborhood , ee
of the neighborhoo



FASHION PLACE WEST STATION AREA PLAN

72

