ORDINANCE NO. 25-19

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.66.020 OF THE MURRAY
CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO ELECTIONS.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to amend section
2.66.020 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to elections.

Section 2. Amendment of section 2.66.020 of the Murray City Municipal Code.
Section 2.66.020 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to elections shall be
amended to read as follows:

2.66.020: CANDIDACY; CITY GENERAL ELECTIONS:

A. Onor before May 1 ina year in which there is a Municipal general election, the
City Recorder shall publish a notice that identifies:

1. The Municipal offices to be voted on in the Municipal general election; and

2. The dates for filing a declaration of candidacy or nomination petition for the
offices.

B. The City Recorder shall publish the notice as a class A notice under Section 63G-
30-102 of the Utah Code, for seven days.

D. The filing procedures to become a candidate for a City office shall be as follows:

5. Atthe time a candidate files a declaration of candidacy or an individual files a
nomination petition, the candidate or the individual filing the petition shall also file with
the City Recorder a conflict-of-interest disclosure statement provided by the City
Recorder.

a. The City Recorder may not accept a declaration of candidacy or a nomination
petition that is not accompanied by the conflict-of-interest disclosure statement.

b. Each conflict-of-interest disclosure statement shall be posted on the City’s
official website until the candidate resigns or is disqualified as a candidate or the day
after the day of the official canvass for the general election.


F. Before the City Recorder may accept any declaration of candidacy or nomination
petition, the City Recorder shall:

1. Read to the prospective candidate or person filing the petition the constitutional
and statutory qualification requirements for the City office that the candidate is seeking.
2: Require the candidate or person filing the petition to state whether or not the

candidate meets those requirements.
3. Inform the candidate or the individual filing the petition that an individual who
holds a municipal elected office may not, at the same time, hold a county elected office.
4. Ifthe prospective candidate does not meet the qualification requirements for the -
City office, the City Recorder may not accept the declaration of candidacy or nomination
petition.
5. If it appears that the prospective candidate meets the requirements of
candidacy, the City Recorder shall:

a. Inform the candidate that the candidate's name will appear on the ballot as it is
written on the declaration of candidacy or nomination petition;

b. Provide the candidate with a copy of the current campaign financial disclosure
laws for the office the candidate is seeking and inform the candidate that failure to
comply will result in the disqualification as a candidate and removal of the candidate's
name from the ballot;

c. Provide the candidate with a copy of the Statewide electronic voter information
website program and inform the candidate of the submission deadline;

d. Provide the candidate with a copy of the pledge of fair campaign practices, as
provided in section 20A-9-206 of the Utah Code, and inform the candidate that signing
the pledge is voluntary and signed pledges shail be filed with the City Recorder;

e. If the candidate elects to sign the pledge of fair campaign practices, the City
Recorder shall accept the candidate's pledge.

f. Accept the declaration of candidacy or nomination petition.

6. After accepting a declaration of candidacy or nomination petition, the City
Recorder shall verify with the Salt Lake County Clerk that each candidate is a registered
voter. Any candidate who is not registered to vote is disqualified and the City Recorder
may not print the candidate's name on the ballot.

H. As soon as possible after expiration of the period for filing a declaration of
candidacy or nomination petition, the City Recorder shall:

1. Cause the names of the candidates as they will appear on the ballot to be
published as a class A notice under Section 63G-30-102 of the Utah Code, for seven
days; and

2. Notify the Lieutenant Governor of the names of the candidates as they will
appear on the ballot.



Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first
publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 3 day of June 2025.

MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

eee eon
Ze “On,
ss: aa)
et ea) ;
y i. : x Pam Cottér, Chair
4, Zs 5 A
/ 3 kes
ATTEST. O°. 1903 0. 2
©," a 4
\ & rere ke a
\ és ae
WCRATE <=
AAR

rooke Smith, City Recorder
, 2025.

Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this Lay of

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this | LZ day of | vre—__, 2025.

rett A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby ceystify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the ay of , 2025.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder
