ORDINANCE NO. 26-07

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A TEMPORARY LAND USE REGULATION
PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. SECTION 10-20-504 RELATING TO
MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS WITHIN THE CITY.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:
PREAMBLE

Section 10-20-504 of the Utah Code Annotated grants the City authority to enact
an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for all of the area within the
City without prior consideration or recommendation from the Planning Commission for a
period not to exceed 180 days.

The City Council (“Council”) is concerned with the potential conflicts between
multi-family zoning districts and adjacent single-family zoning districts, including
ensuring sufficient setbacks as well as orderly development of multi-family projects that
harmonize with neighboring single-family zoning districts.

The City’s multi-family zoning districts are intended to encourage opportunities
for varied housing styles and character. However, the Council has concerns that recent
developments may not properly balance adjacent neighborhood character. The Council
is concerned that the multi-family zoning districts have regulatory deficiencies that may
not adequately protect existing surrounding residential neighborhoods from the potential
adverse effects of these more intense land uses.

The Council finds that the current regulations could allow development
applications to be submitted and approved that may result in development patterns
inconsistent with the City’s long-term planning goals and may create adverse impacts
that are difficult or impossible to mitigate after construction. The City Council finds
further that revisions or amendments to the multi-family zoning districts are necessary to
encourage orderly development of multi-family projects that harmonize with neighboring
single-family zoning districts.

The Council affirms its support in the development of various housing types
across the city and desires to amend the regulations to enhance the usability and
applicability in multi-family developments.

The Council has determined it is in the best interests of the City, in the protection
of public health, safety and welfare, that the regulations of multi-family developments
should be analyzed by the City staff, the regulated development community and the
residents of the City for the purpose of determining the best possible approach for such
development under the Constitution of the United States and the laws of the State of
Utah.


In order to preserve the status quo pending further analysis of the regulation of
multi-family developments, the Council has determined that a temporary land use

regulation regarding developments in multi-family zoning districts should be imposed

prohibiting the acceptance of any land use or subdivision applications or other required
approvals (“approvals”) for developments within the multi-family zoning districts.

BE IT ENACETED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to establish a temporary
land use regulation prohibiting the acceptance of applications for land use or subdivision
approvals within multi-family zoning districts.

Section 2. That there be and hereby is imposed for a period not to exceed one
hundred eighty (180) days from the effective date of this ordinance a temporary land
use regulation prohibiting the acceptance of applications for land use or subdivision
approvals for multi-family developments within the Medium Density Residential District
(R-2-10), Multiple-Family Low Density Residential District (R-M-10), Multiple-Family
Medium Density Residential District (R-M-15), Multiple-Family High Density Residential
District (R-M-20), and the Multiple-Family High Density Residential District (R-M-25).
The City shall not accept, process or approve any application for any proposed
development.

Section 3. That during the one hundred eighty (180) day temporary land use
regulation period, the City staff shall work to develop and present to the City Council a
proposed ordinance or ordinances regulating multi-family developments and present to
the City Council in sufficient time that the ordinance(s), if adopted, may take effect prior
to the expiration of the one hundred eighty (180) day temporary land use regulation.

Section 4. In order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and allow
sufficient time to implement the policy goals and objectives of the City as more fully
described above, the Murray City Municipal Council hereby expressly invokes the
Pending Ordinance Doctrine with respect to this Temporary Land Use Regulation.

Section 5 . Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect April 21, 2026.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on
this 21S day of April 2026.

SS A, MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
FON, STARS xy

Fk iN
aa “0 )
fe: aA)
£2: el
42: +

4 t a | Adam Hock, Chair
¢, «Af
“os 19030 F
i" +A
ya) Fe 920 '¢ a
N\ ORATE = os

WAAR”


i ATTEST:
Brooke Smith, p Recorder

Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this ka day of
, 2026.

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

37
DATED this _7 day of AA TY__, 2026.

A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

| hereby certify that this Ordinance or a summary hereof was published according
to law on the day of 26.

Brooke Smith, City Recorder
