ORDINANCE NO. 26-05

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 17.48.140 AND 17.48.180 OF

THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO AWNING AND

CANOPY SIGNS.

BE IT ENACTED BY THE MURRAY CITY MUNICIPAL COUNCIL:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to amend Sections
17.48.140 AND 17.48.180 of the Murray City Municipal Code relating to awning and
canopy signs.

Section 2. Amend sections 17.48.140 and 17.48.180 of the Murray City

Municipal Code. Sections 17.48.140 and 17.48.180 of the Murray City Municipal Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

17.48.140: STANDARDS FOR SIGNS THAT REQUIRE A PERMIT:

A. Awning And Canopy Signs: Signs on awnings and canopies must meet the
following standards:

1. Materials: Awning and canopy coverings shall be made of Sunbrella or other
similar material. Materials with a glossy finish are not allowed.

2. Maximum sign face area: One (1) square foot per linear foot of storefront.

a. Signs shall be limited to street level businesses only (see Figure 8 of this
section).

[NOTE — “FIGURE 8” OF THIS SUBSECTION IS INCLUDED HERE AND WILL NOT
BE IMPACTED BY THIS ORDINANCE]

3. Special Provisions
a. May extend up to six feet (6’) from the face of the building.
b. One (1) per ground floor business entry or window.
c. Illumination of Awnings or Canopies:
i. INumination of awnings or canopies with signage shall be external.

it. Individual internally illuminated channel letters may be used.


iti. Backlit awnings may be used in conjunction with other site lighting for
lighting walkways, entrances, and other pedestrian safety
improvements.

4. Signs On Awnings Or Canopies In Combination With Wall Signs: Combinations
of signs on awnings or canopies with wall signs are permitted. If a combination of
awning/canopy and wall signage will be used, the signage on the awning/canopy shall
be limited to twenty five percent (25%).

17.48.180: TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT, CITY CENTER FORM BASED
CODE DISTRICT AND MIXED-USE ZONE SIGNS:
2. Awning and canopy signs:
a. Maximum sign face area: One (1) square foot per linear foot of storefront.
i. Signs shall be limited to street level businesses only.
b. Special provisions:

i. May extend up to six feet (6’) from the face of the building.

ii. One (1) per ground floor business entry or window.
lil. Illumination of Awnings or Canopies:

1. Illumination of awnings and canopies with signage shall be
external.

2. Individual internally illuminated channel letters may be used.

3. Backlit awnings may be used in conjunction with other site
lighting for lighting walkways, entrances, and other pedestrian
safety improvements.

3. Projecting or hanging signs:

a. Shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in total sign area and shall be
measured as the square area that is occupied by the sign.

b. Shall not extend more than six feet (6') from building face, shall not have a
spacing from wall to be less than six inches (6"), and no sign shall be within two
feet (2') from back of curb. i


c. Each sign shall be mounted at or below the top of the first floor of the building,
at a height no less than eight feet (8') and no more than fifteen feet (15') as
measured to the top of the sign. If the sign is mounted over landscaped areas, or
if the sign would be visually blocked by architectural elements of the building, the
minimum height may be reduced to seven feet (7’).

d. Nosign shall have a thickness greater than twelve inches (12") and signage
shall be limited to the two (2) sides perpendicular to the street frontage.

e. Signs shall have a minimum separation of twenty feet (20') between other
blade, hanging or projecting signs.

f. Hanging signs shall not project beyond the outside limit of the building facade.

g. If exteinally illuminated, the shielded tight sources must be directed solely onto
the sign without causing glare.

h. Businesses using this type of signage must have a public entrance directly
onto a public street.

4. Window signs:

i D. Prohibited Signs:
1. Wall mounted electronic message center signs.
2. Electronic message signs or electronic awning signs.
3. Off premises signs.

4. Signage shall not be permitted on the exterior facades of buildings or lease
space that is not occupied by the business being promoted by the signage.

5. All other prohibited sign types as listed in section 17.48.100 of this chapter.
(Ord. 25-20 § 4: Ord. 19-14)

Section 3. Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon first publication.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Murray City Municipal Council on

i this 218 day of April 2026.


a ar id (@) %
FOF ay
ras “Ge ]
Ze. ah
Z>- oe
é H oe /)
a=: - xy
4x: “i Z
V i903
WO... A

v2) Vie ke <—_
WooRATE 2S
WAnant?
ATTEST

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

, 2026.

(
\ | | Transmitted to the Office of the Mayor of Murray City on this Be. of

MAYOR’S ACTION: Approved

DATED this __/ day of 4 Ey , 2026.

tt A. Hales, Mayor

ATTEST:

Brooke Smith, City Recorder

CERTIFICATE OF PUBLICATION

a

| hereby certify that thjs Ordi e, or a summary hereof, was published
according to law on the@ | “Way of Mae 2026.
Ke Smith, City Recorder

