ORDINANCE no, \4- 98- DATE Moy 22, 2014

AN ORDINANCE GRANTING TO QUESTAR GAS COMPANY dba DOMINION ENERGY

UTAH A FRANCHISE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

OF A GAS DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM IN EMIGRATON CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP,
SALT LAKE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH.

Questar Gas Company dba Dominion Energy Utah, a Utah corporation, (Dominion
Energy) desires to construct, maintain, and operate a gas distribution system within the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township (Township); and

The Township Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens of the
Township to grant a franchise to Dominion Energy to use the roads and streets within the Township
for such purpose.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Township Council ordains as follows:

1. Grant of Franchise. The Township grants to Dominion Energy a nonexclusive
franchise (Franchise) to construct, maintain, and operate in the present and future roads, streets,
alleys, highways, and other public rights-of-way within Township limits, including any property
annexed or otherwise acquired by the Township after the effective date of this Franchise,
(collectively, Streets) a distribution system for furnishing natural gas to the Township and its
inhabitants for heating and other purposes. Dominion Energy shall have the right to erect,
construct, equip, and maintain along, over, and under the Streets a system of mains, pipes, laterals,
and related equipment (Facilities) as are reasonably necessary for supplying natural gas service in
accordance with this Franchise.

2. Consideration. In consideration of this Franchise, Dominion Energy shall pay to
Township the sum of $50.00 upon acceptance of this Franchise and shall provide gas service in
accordance with the terms of this Franchise.

Page 1 of 9

3. Term. This Franchise is granted for an initial term of thirty (30) years. At the
expiration of the initial term, the Franchise shall continue in effect upon the same terms and
conditions for up to two additional terms (each of which is a renewal period) of fifteen (15) years
each. The Township may terminate the Franchise at the end of the initial term, or at the end of any
renewal period, by giving Dominion Energy written notice of the Township’s intent to so terminate
not less than ninety (90) calendar days before the expiration of the initial term or any renewal
period.

4. Acceptance. Within sixty (60) days after the passage of this ordinance, Dominion
Energy shall file with the Township an unconditional written acceptance of the Franchise declaring
its acceptance of the Franchise and its intention to be bound by the terms and conditions of the
Franchise.

5. Construction and Maintenance of Facilities. All Facilities shall be constructed
and installed so as to interfere as little as possible with traffic over and public use of the Streets
and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners
who adjoin any of the Streets. All Facilities shall be constructed in accordance with established
gas distribution construction practices and in a manner, which protects the Facilities from all traffic
loads. Without unreasonable additional cost to Dominion Energy, all Facilities that are installed
during the term of the Franchise shall be sited to be visually unobtrusive and to preserve the natural
beauty and neighborhood aesthetics within the Township limits.

Dominion Energy shall repair or replace, at its own expense, any and all rights of way,
pavements, sidewalks, street improvements, excavations, other facilities, landscaping, or other

improvements, public or private, that it damages in the Franchise operations.
Page 2 of 9

6. Compliance with Ordinances--Conflict. Dominion Energy shall comply with all
Township ordinances, regulations, and requirements and shall pay all applicable excavation fees
and charges that are or may be prescribed by the Township with respect to the construction,
maintenance and operation of all Facilities. However, these obligations shall apply only as long

| as such ordinances, regulations, requirements, or fees are not preempted by or otherwise in conflict
with any applicable statutory or constitutional law, rule, or regulation, or the tariffs approved by
regulatory bodies having jurisdiction over Dominion Energy, including this Franchise and any
lawful revisions made and accepted by Dominion Energy during the term of the Franchise.

The Township shall have the right to inspect the construction and maintenance of the
Facilities to ensure the proper compliance with applicable Township ordinances, regulations, and
requirements. In the event Dominion Energy should fail to comply with the terms of any Township
ordinance, regulation, or requirement, the Township shall give Dominion Energy written notice of
such non-compliance and the time for correction provided by ordinance or a reasonable time for
correction if there is no time frame provided by the applicable ordinance, regulation, or
requirement. Excluding any correction, modification, or change to the Facilities, and after written
notice and failure of Dominion Energy to make correction, the Township may, at its sole risk,
make such correction itself and charge the cost to Dominion Energy including any minimum cost
provided by ordinance. The Township shall not make, nor request or allow any party other than
Dominion Energy to make changes, corrections, or modifications of any kind to Dominion
Energy’s Facilities. Nothing in this Franchise limits Dominion Energy’s right to oppose any
ordinance, whether existing, proposed, or adopted, from and after the effective date of this
Franchise.

Page 3 of 9

7. Information Exchange. Upon request by either the Township or Dominion
Energy, as reasonably necessary, Dominion Energy and the Township shall meet for the purpose
of exchanging information and documents regarding construction and other similar work within
the Township limits, with a view towards coordinating their respective activities in those areas
where such coordination may prove mutually beneficial. Any information received by the
Township from Dominion Energy that contains or relates to Dominion Energy’s confidential or
proprietary information, including but not limited to information regarding future capital
improvements that may involve land acquisition shall be treated with confidentiality upon request
to the extent that the Township may lawfully do so.

8. Relocation. Upon written notice to Dominion Energy, the Township may require
the relocation and removal or reinstallation (collectively, Relocation) of any Facilities located in,
on, along, over, across, through, or under any of the Streets. After receipt of such written notice,
Dominion Energy shall diligently begin such Relocation of its Facilities as may be reasonably
necessary to meet the Township’s requirements. The Relocation of Facilities by Dominion Energy
shall be at no cost to the Township if (i) such request is for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare pursuant to lawful authority delegated to the Township; (ii) the Facilities have
been installed pursuant to this or any other Dominion Energy franchise and not pursuant to a
property or other similar right, including, but not limited to, a right-of-way, grant, permit, or license
from a state, federal, municipal or private entity; and (iii) the Township provides a new location

for the Facilities. Otherwise, a Relocation required by the Township pursuant to such written
notice shall be at the Township’s expense. Following Relocation of any Facilities, Dominion
Energy may maintain and operate such Facilities in a new location within Township limits without
additional payment. If a Township project is funded by federal or state monies that include an
Page 4 of 9

amount allocated to defray the expenses of Relocation of Facilities, then the Township shall
compensate Dominion Energy up to the extent of such amount for any Relocation costs mandated
by the project to the extent that the Township actually receives or is otherwise authorized to direct

or approve payment of such federal or state funds; however, the Township shall ensure that receipt
of compensation from federal or state sources shall not restrict or otherwise obligate Dominion
Energy’s ownership of the Facilities in any way.

Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, Dominion Energy shall not be responsible for
any costs associated with an authorized Township project that are not attributable to Dominion
Energy’s Facilities in the Streets. Further, all such costs shall be allocated among all utilities or
other persons whose facilities or property are subject to Relocation due to an authorized Township
project.

9. Terms of Service. Dominion Energy shall furnish natural gas service without
preference or discrimination among customers of the same service class at reasonable rates, in
accordance with all applicable tariffs approved by and on file with regulatory bodies having
jurisdiction over Dominion Energy, including revisions to such tariffs made during the term of the
Franchise, and in conformity with all applicable constitutional and statutory requirements.
Dominion Energy may make and enforce reasonable rules and regulations in the conduct of its
business, may require its customers to execute a gas service agreement as a condition to receiving
service, and shall have the right to contract with its customers regarding the installation and
operation of its Facilities. To secure safe and reliable service to the customers, and in the public
interest, Dominion Energy shall have the right to prescribe the sizes and kinds of pipes and related

Facilities to be used and shall have the right to refuse service to any customer who refuses to
comply with Dominion Energy’s rules and regulations.
Page 5 of 9

10. Indemnification. Dominion Energy shall indemnify, defend, and hold the
Township, its officers and employees, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands,
liens, liabilities, damages, actions, and proceedings arising from the exercise by Dominion Energy
of its rights under this Franchise, including its operations within Township limits, and Dominion
Energy shall pay the reasonable cost of defense plus the Township’s reasonable attorney fees.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, Dominion Energy shall not be obligated to
indemnify, defend or hold the Township harmless to the extent that any underlying claim, demand,
lien, liability, damage, action, and proceeding arises out of or in connection with any act or
omission of the Township or any of its agents, officers or employees.

11. Assignment. Dominion Energy may assign or transfer its rights and obligations
under the Franchise to any parent, affiliate, or subsidiary of Dominion Energy, to any entity having
fifty percent (50%) or more direct or indirect common ownership with Dominion Energy, or to
any successor-in-interest or transferee of Dominion Energy having all necessary approvals,
including those from the Utah Public Service Commission or its successor, to provide utility
service within the Township limits. Otherwise, Dominion Energy shall not transfer, assign, Or
delegate any of its rights or obligations under the Franchise to another entity without the
Township’s prior written approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned, or delayed. Inclusion of the Franchise as an asset of Dominion Energy subject to the
liens and mortgages of Dominion Energy shall not constitute a transfer or assignment requiring
the Township’s prior written consent.

12. Insurance. The Company shall responsibly self-insure or maintain insurance to
cover its obligations and liabilities as set forth in Section 10, in lieu of any insurance as may be
required in any Township ordinances.

Page 6 of 9

13. Bonding. If Township ordinance requires Dominion Energy to post a surety bond,
that section of the ordinance is expressly waived.
| 14. _—_ Effect of Invalidity. If any portion of this Franchise is for any reason held illegal,
invalid, or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of any remaining portions
of this Franchise.
15. Amendment. This ordinance shall not be altered or amended without the prior
written consent of Dominion Energy.
16. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon the date of acceptance
by Dominion Energy as established above.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 22 day of MAN 20\9..
ATTEST: Emigration Canyon Metro Township
— w/ Pp dig Sy hh By
Township Recorder Mayor
ungil member
a
By NAg AICO |
Council menybpr
By PFs
Council member We
KY <
By if im 4 7 be =,
Coutici! member ¢ /
By
Council member
Page 7 of 9

Voting Outcome Yes No
Council member Sey. wv”
Council member haw i<e6 VA
Council member Brems Vv
Council member tmywis vw
Council member Bawen WA
QUESTAR GAS COMPANY dba
DOMINION ENERGY UTAH
By:
Colleen Larkin Bell
Vice President and General Manager
Western Distribution Operations
Page 8 of 9

TOWNSHIP ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF _Uta\y )
> SS
COUNTY OF Salt Lake )
On the \4 day of Fe oar , 2020, personally appeared before me
\JO0, SMiolka ; gre being duly sworn, did say that he is the Mayor of
Eiicyactin carnon Mecho TOsMAieMicipal corporation of the State of Utah, and that the foregoing
instrument was signed in behalf of the Township by authority of its governing body and said Mayor
acknowledged to me that the Township executed the same.
| (EE Noe SOLE WATT
(@ My Commission Expires ont Withee Wet
Saas 3, 20 i
NEw Comm, Number: 8971 Notary Public
My Commission Expires: Residing at:
July (3,202D WEES Louke TY
DOMINION ENERGY ACKNOWLEDGMENT
STATE OF UTAH )
3 SS
COUNTY OF SALT LAKE)
On the day of ,20___, personally appeared before me Colleen
Larkin Bell, who being by me duly sworn did say that she is the Vice President and General
Manager of QUESTAR GAS COMPANY dba DOMINION ENERGY UTAH, a Utah
corporation, and that the foregoing instrument was signed in behalf of said corporation by authority
of a resolution of its Board of Directors; and he acknowledged to me that said corporation executed
the same.
Notary Public
My Commission Expires: Residing at:
Page 9 of 9

TIAW ZIOHSM EE,
dot to otvi2 vildud woth : *
“no 2011QA2 Noizzin ne) YM + 8
OSOE .£! ylul Way
FX@8d r9dmuv mmod ws
