EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. \-Ole-0 June 28 2018
A ORDINANCE AMENDING THE TOWNSHIP SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS AND
ADOPTING NEW PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO DEVELOPMENT IN THE
CANYON
RECITALS

A. Utah State Code section 10-2a-414 provides that when a metro township is
incorporated that each county ordinance that is in effect on the day that metro township is
incorporated will remain in effect as a metro township ordinance until the metro township
council amends or repeals the ordinance.

B. The Planning Commission of the Township has reviewed the current subdivision
regulations applicable to the Township as well as recommended new regulations governing land
uses applicable in the foothills and canyons.

C. The Planning Commission has held a public hearing on the proposed amendments to
the existing ordinances and the new proposed ordinances relating to development in the canyon
and has recommend to the Township Council that it approve such amendments and new
enactments.

D. The Council of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township has reviewed the
recommendations of its planning commission for changes to the planning and zoning ordinances
applicable in the Township as well as the recommended new provisions relating to development
in the Canyon

ORDINANCE

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:

I. The attached Exhibit A is hereby adopted as the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Title 18
of its Code regulating the subdivision of property in the Canyon with the language underlined
being newly adopted language and the struck through language being provisions that are being
deleted from the current regulations.

II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code 10-3-
711.

If. The Salt Lake County Clerk acting for the Township and municipal recorder/clerk pursuant
to Utah Code 10-3c-201(1)(a)(ii) is hereby authorized to provide appropriate title, chapter, part,
and section numbers for the provision of this ordinance and pursuant to Utah Code 10-3-713
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, this ordinance, along with all
ordinances passed by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

IV. The recorder shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not already so
done.
V. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required.
APPROVE a ane ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County. Utah, this 24% day of |) Yue 2018.
MAY
ATTEST: Joe Smolka
, Ww Clerk

Voting:

Council Member Paine We

Council Member Smolka pe

Council Member Hawkes ft

Council Member Brems Aw

Council Member Bowen BAe

Title 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
Chapter 18.04 - DEFINITIONS
18.04.010 - Generally.
The terms used in this title shall have the respective meanings set forth in this chapter.
18.04.020 - Alley.

"Alley" means a public way which affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
18.04.030 - Bench mark.

"Bench mark" means a mark affixed to a permanent or semi-permanent object along a line of survey
to furnish a datum level.

18.04.040 - Building setback line.

“Building setback line" means a line within a lot or other parcel of land, so designated on the plat of
the proposed subdivision, between which line and the adjacent boundary of the street upon which the lot
abuts, the erection of an enclosed structure or portion thereof is prohibited.

18.04.050 - Collector street.

"Collector street” means a street which carries traffic from minor streets to the major street system,
including the principal entrance streets of residence development and the primary circulating streets
within such a development.

18.04.060 - Council.

“Council” or "“seurtymetro township council," unless otherwise clearly indicated, means the Salt
LakeEmigration Canyon GountyMetro Township council.

18.04.070 - Cul-de-sac.

"Cul-de-sac" means a minor street having one open end and being terminated at the other by a
vehicular turnaround.

18.04.075 - Director.
"Director" means the director of the Salt Lake County planning and development services division.
18.04.080 - Dwelling.

"Dwelling" means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for residential use.
18.04.090 - Easement.

“Easement” means the quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or advantage in
land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the land, is granted to the public or some
particular person or part of the public.

18.04.100 - Engineering division.

"Engineering division" means the engineering division of the public works department of Salt Lake

County.
18.04.110 - Final plat.
Page 1

"Final piat' means a map or chart of a subdivision which has been accurately surveyed, and such
survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots and other divisions thereof can be
identified.

18.04.120 - Flood control division.

"Flood control division" means the division of flood control and water quality of the Salt Lake County
public works department.
18.04.130 - Guesthouse.

“Guesthouse” means a separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one main dwelling structure
intended for housing of guests or servants and not rented, leased or sold separate from the rental, lease
or sale of the main dwelling.

18.04.140 - Lot.

"Lot" means a portion of a subdivision or parcel of land intended as a unit for building development
or transfer of ownership.
18.04.150 - Lot width.

“Lot width” means the width of the lot measured along the minimum building setback line.
18.04.160 - Major street.

"Major street" means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to serve as a major

| traffic way and which is designated on the GourtyMetro Township Transportation Improvement Plan as a

controlled-access highway, major street, parkway or by equivalent terms suitable to identify streets
comprising the basic structure of the street plan.
18.04.170 - Marginal access street.

"Marginal access street" means a minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to a major street and
which provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
18.04.180 - Minor street.

"Minor street" means a street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a collector or major
street and of limited continuity, which serves or is intended to serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
18.04.190 - Owner.

"Owner" includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean either a natural person, firm,
association, partnership, private corporation, public or quasi-public corporation, or any combination
thereof.

18.04.200 - Parcel of land.

"Parcel of land” means a contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or owned by, or recorded
as the property of, the same claimant or person.
18.04.210 - Planning commission.

"Planning commission" means the Salt-LakeEmigration Canyon CeuntyMetro Township planning
commission—except in—areas_where—a-township-_exists_planning-commission-_shall mean_the township
planning commission.

18.04.220 - Preliminary approval.

"Preliminary approval" means an approval, with or without recommended alterations, given to a
preliminary plat by the planning commission and provides the necessary authority to proceed with the
preparation and presentation of the final plat.

Page 2

18.04.230 - Preliminary plat.

"Preliminary plat" means a map or plan of a proposed land division or subdivision.
18.04.240 - Street light.

"Street light" means a raised light installed within or adjacent to the street right-of-way, turned on or
lit at a certain time every night. Modern lamps may also have light-sensitive photocells to turn them on at
dusk and off at sunrise, or activate automatically in foul weather.

18.04.250 - Subdivision.

"Subdivision" means any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two or
more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future,
for offer, sale, lease or development. Subdivision does not include a bona fide division or partition of
agricultural land for agricultural purposes, provided that such agricultural land shall be subject to the
requirements of the subdivision ordinance upon the conversion of the land from agricultural use to
residential, commercial or manufacturing use. Further, this definition shall not apply to the sale or
conveyance of any parcel of land which may be shown as one of the lots of a subdivision of which a plat
has theretofore been recorded in the office of the county recorder. The word "subdivide" and any
derivative thereof shall have reference to the term subdivision as defined in this section.

18.04.260 - Trails.

"Trails" means a system of public recreational pathways located within the unincorporated
csountymetro township for use by the public for walking, biking and/or horseback riding as designated.
Chapter 18.08 - GENERAL REGULATIONS
18.08.010 - Procedure generally.

The planning commission shall be the land use authority for subdivisions. In order to assure that
each subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director or director's designee shall
administer formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application shall not be deemed
complete until the full application, fees and all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a
partial fee and submission of preliminary plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete
application.

Each process shall include the following components:

A. An application procedure, which shall include:

1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's designee to
clearly indicate the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other
pertinent information;

2. Submission of supplementary materials, including a legal description, property plat, the
required number of plans/preliminary plats, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications:

3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.

Page 3

B. Areview procedure, which shall include:

1. An on-site review by the director or director's designee as provided by Utah Code 17-27a-
303;

2. Review of the submitted site plan/preliminary plat for compliance with courtymetro
township land use ordinances;

3. Reference of the application and site plan/preliminary plat to any other government agency
and/or affected entity which the director or director's designee deems necessary to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project's compliance with all
applicable ordinances and codes:

4. The processing of any exception requests that have been made in conjunction with the
subdivision application.

C. Apreliminary plat approval procedure, which shall include:

1. Confirmation that all necessary agencies have responded to the requests for
recommendation with a recommendation of approval or approval with conditions;

2. Integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and affected
entities involved above into the preliminary plat;

3. Receipt of a recommendation from the planning staff;

4. Approval of the preliminary plat as outlined in Section 18.12.030, and issuing a preliminary
plat approval letter.

D. A final plat approval procedure, which shall include:

1. An engineering review to ensure that the final plat complies with all conditions of approval
of the preliminary plat and to ensure that the final plat complies with the design standards,
codes, and ordinances and with minimum engineering/surveying requirements;

2. Acheck of appropriate background information, such as: lot access, property title, record of
survey, field boundary verification, etc.:

3. The collection of the necessary approval signatures (planning commission representative,
director or director's designee, health department, district-metro township attorney,
seuntymetro township mayercouncil chair or their designees) on the final plat:

4. Payment of final fees and bond;

5. Recordation of the plat.

18.08.015 - Time limits.

Subdivision applications are subject to expiration according to the following schedule unless, for

good cause shown, the applicant is granted an extension of time by the director or director's designee:

A. A subdivision application shall expire if the applicant has not filed any of the required
documents for preliminary plat approval within six months of the submission of a complete
application.

B. A subdivision application shall expire if the final plat is not submitted to planning and
development services within six months of the preliminary plat approval.

C. A subdivision application shall expire if the final plat has not been signed by the sountymetro
township mayor within six months of the approval of the director or director's designee.

D. Asubdivision application shall expire if the final plat has not been recorded within six months of

| the date of the courntymetro township mayor's signature on the plat.
Page 4

18.08.020 - Exceptions—Permitted when.

In cases where unusual topographic, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions exist or the welfare,

best interests and safety of the general public will be usefully served or protected, variations and

| exceptions of this title may be made by the seuAtymetro township mayor after the recommendation of the
planning commission, provided, that such variations and exceptions may be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this title.
18.08.040 - Appeals.

The applicant or any person adversely affected by a final decision on a subdivision shall have the
right to appeal the decision to the land use hearing officer by filing a letter to the hearing officer stating the
reasons for appeal within ten days after the decision. The hearing officer shall review the record and the
decision to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. After hearing the appeal,
the land use hearing officer may affirm, reverse, alter or remand the decision for further consideration.
Chapter 18.12 - PRELIMINARY PLAT
18.12.010 - Required information.

A. The preliminary plat, prepared on paper twenty-one inches by thirty inches, shall contain the
information specified in this section and comply with the following requirements:

1. Description and Delineation. In a title block located in the lower right-hand corner the following

shall appear:

a. The proposed name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by the planning and
development services division;

b. The location of the subdivision, including:

i. Address,
ii. Section, township and range;

c. The names and addresses of the owner, the subdivider, if different than the owner, and of
the designer of the subdivision;

d. The date of preparation, scale (no less than one inch to equal one hundred feet) and the
north point.

2. Existing Conditions. The plat shall show:

a. The location of and dimensions to the nearest bench mark or monument;

b. The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy line and the total
approximate acreage encompassed thereby;

c. All property under the control of the subdivider, even though only a portion is being
subdivided. Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a sketch
of the prospective street system of the unplatted parts of the subdivider's land shall be
submitted, and the street system of the part submitted shall be considered in the light of
existing general street plans, other planning commission studies and the GountyMetro
Township Transportation Improvement Plan:

d. The location, width and names of all existing streets within two hundred feet of the
subdivision and of all prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-

Page 5

way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or
permanent easements and section and corporation lines, within and adjacent to the tract;

e. The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all reservoirs within the
tract and to a distance of at least one hundred feet beyond the tract boundaries;

f. Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the tract and to
a distance of at least one hundred feet beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe sizes,
grades, manholes and exact location;

g. Existing ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and open waterways and proposed
realignments;

h. Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided land, showing ownership where possible;

i. Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet. Highwater levels of all watercourses,
if any, shall be indicated in the same datum for contour elevations;

J. Nearest installed fire hydrants on or within five hundred feet of the proposed subdivision.

3. Properties Located in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone. In addition to the preceding, the
preliminary plat for subdivision of a property located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone
shall show:

a. A graphic depiction of existing slope characteristics of the property, illustrating the
following:

i. Areas with slopes less than thirty percent,

ii. Areas with slopes thirty to forty percent,

iii. Areas with slopes forty to fifty percent, and
iv. Areas with slopes greater than fifty percent;

b. Identified natural hazards, including but not limited to, areas potentially subject to
avalanche, liquefaction, and/or surface fault rupture;

c. Water courses, natural drainage channels, storm water runoff channels, gullies, stream
beds, wetlands, etc.

4. Proposed Subdivision Plan. The subdivision plan shall show:

a. The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of (designated by
actual or proposed names and numbers) proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and
easements;

b. The layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots, and in areas subject to foothills and
canyons overlay zone provisions, designation of buildable areas on individual lots.

c. Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside
for use of property owners in the subdivision;

d. Building setback lines, including showing dimensions where required by the planning
commission,

e. Easements for water, sewers, drainage, utility lines and other purposes, if required by the
planning commission,

f. Typical street cross sections and grade sheets where required by the planning commission

| or other interested county_or metro township divisions;

g. A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to handie stormwater
drainage for the subdivision.

Page 6

B. Where required, evidence of any agreements with adjacent property owners relative to the
subdivision development shall be presented to the planning and development services division in
writing prior to its approval of the plat. These agreements shall include those relative to drainage,
easements, protection strips and improvement bonds.

18.12.020 - Appraisal of interested parties.

The planning commission may, by majority vote, withhold approval for one year of a preliminary plat
submitted for the division of property, a part or all of which is deemed suitable by the planning
commission for schools, parks, playgrounds, streets, highways or other areas for public use, after
apprising the proper agencies in writing of the property owner's intent to subdivide. If any such areas
proposed for public use have not been freely dedicated to the public by the owner or have not been
purchased at a fair price by the proper agency within one year from the date of notification, such areas
may be divided into lots and sold in accordance with the provisions of this title.

18.12.030 - Preliminary plat approval or disapproval.

Following a review of the preliminary plat the planning commission shall act on the preliminary plat
as submitted or modified. If the plat is approved, the director or director's designee shall sign the plat.
One copy of the preliminary plat shall be provided to the subdivider. One signed copy shall be retained by
the planning and development services division, and one copy of the approved plat shall be returned to
the developer's engineer. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the director or director's designee shall
notify the developer in writing and give reasons for such disapproval. The receipt of a signed copy of the
approved preliminary plat shall be authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of
specifications for the minimum improvements required in Chapter 18.24 of this title and with the
preparation of the final plat.

Chapter 18.16 - FINAL PLAT

18.16.010 - Required information.

The final plat, which must be prepared by a licensed land surveyor not in the employ of the county_or
metro township on a sheet of approved reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black
india drawing ink, with text not less than one-tenth inch in size, shall be so drawn that the top of the sheet
faces either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing best, shall contain all information
required on the preliminary plat (except contours), and shall comply with the following:

A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:

1. The approved name of the subdivision;

2. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe
boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other
important features. Boundary lines shall be drawn heavier than street and lot lines;

3. An identification system for all lots and blocks and names of streets. Lot lines shall show
dimensions in feet and hundredths;

4. Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and length of all arcs;

5. The accurate location of all monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the

| appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county. metro township or other official bench
Page 7

marks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be
preserved in precise position;

| 6. The dedication to the countymetro township of all streets and highways included in
proposed subdivisions. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement
bond release by the subdivider's engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on
the final plat as approved by the planning and development services division. County
sStandard precast monuments, rings and lids shall be furnished by the county surveyor
and shall be purchased by the subdivider at the prices indicated in the county surveyor's
adopted fee schedule;

7. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes;

8. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public
use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or
covenant for common uses of all property owners;

9. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public agent or
utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such streets
shall be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in
a form approved by the attorney.

B. Standard Forms for the Following. The final plat shall require:

1. A registered land surveyor's certificate of survey;

2. The owner's certificate of dedication;

3. Anotary public's acknowledgement;

4. The planning commission's certificate of approval:

5. The health department's certificate of approval;

6. The planning and development services division's certificate of approval:

7. The district attorney's certificate of approval;

| 8. The sountymetro township mayor certificate of approval:

9. Aone and one-half by five-inch space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing for the
county recorder's use.

18.16.020 Final approval — GIS data required.

A.__Prior to the final approval and the issuance of any building permit associated with a subdivision or
development plan, or in the case of a single lot development. a single building permit, the owner
or developer shall provide to County a GIS data corresponding to the approved plans for all
improvements required by Chapter 18.16.020(B). Any changes during construction will require
additional GIS data to be submitted with the final approved as-built drawings. All GIS data shall
be submitted in the following format:

1. All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with County Policy 1013, “Standards for
Geographic Information System" and the “Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS
Standards,” as approved by the Salt Lake County GIS Steering Committee and on file with
Salt Lake County Engineering. The County reserves the right to reject any GIS data that is
provided and is not in compliance with the above standards

2.__This shall be done at the developer or owner's expense. If a developer or owner does not
provide the required GIS data, the County may complete the work in the developer or owner's
behalf and the developer or owner shall pay to the County the cost of completing the work at
the hourly rate approved by the County Council for such work. If developer or owner fails to
pay for such work, the County may pursue legal action to recover these costs.

Page 8

3. Developers with a cost as estimated by the public works department of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) or less may, prior to construction, petition the Division for an exemption from the
GIS requirements of this Chapter. The decision of the Public Works Director shall be final.
B. GIS data will be required for the following improvements:
1. Roadway system: Regulatory signs, street signs, centerlines, curb and gutter, sidewalks,
crosswalks, ADA ramps, striping, road width, and monuments: Streetlights and signals
(including conduit and electrical boxes for streetlights and signals)
2. Storm drain system: Catch basins. manholes. detention basin inlets and outlets, culverts,
detention basin area, stormwater quality BMPs, and pipes
Chapter 18.18 - SUBDIVISION AMENDMENTS
18.18.010 - Purpose.
This chapter establishes review and approval procedures for subdivision amendments and boundary
line adjustments.
18.18.020 - Boundary line adjustments—Exempt from platting requirement.
A subdivision plat is not required for any of the following:
A. A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting their mutual boundary
if:
1. No new lot is created; and
2. The adjustment does not violate applicable zoning ordinances.
B. Arecorded document, executed by the owner of record that:
1. Revises the legal description of more than one contiguous unsubdivided parcel(s) of
property into one legal description encompassing all such parcels of property; or
2. Joins a subdivided parcel of property to an unsubdivided parcel of property and does not
violate applicable zoning ordinances.
C. The consolidation of two or more subdivided lots for the purpose of developing them as one lot,
provided:
1. The consolidation does not affect an existing street, alley, walkway, or right-of-way; and
2. No public utility, drainage, or trail easements exist along the mutual boundary of any two
lots being consolidated.
18.18.030 - Boundary line adjustments—Review.
Boundary line adjustments that are exempt from subdivision platting requirements are subject to a
planning division review process which shall include:
A. Submission of an application; including an application form, application fee, survey/legal
descriptions of the proposed adjustment, and other supplemental materials:
B. Review of the application materials for accuracy and for compliance with applicable zoning
ordinances;
Page 9

C. Issuance of a written approval or denial from the planning and development services division

with stated reasons:

D. Recordation of an appropriate document in the office of the county recorder if the application is

approved.
18.18.040 - Amendments to create additional lots.

An amendment to a recorded subdivision to create one or more additional lots or which involves
vacating or altering a public street or alley shall follow the approval procedure outlined in Section
18.08.010 subject to the following additional requirements:

A. Apreliminary plat approval must be received from the planning commission prior to action being

taken by the sountymetro township mayor; and

B. A public hearing must be held by the seuntymetro township mayor or his or her designee, in

compliance with Utah Code 17-27a-608, prior to the plat amendment being approved or denied.
18.18.050 - Other amendments to subdivisions.

An amendment to a recorded subdivision that involves the alteration or removal of an easement,
private right-of-way, condition, limitation, or special requirement shall follow the approval procedure
outlined in Section 18.08.010 with the following variations:

A. Only those persons or entities who have a direct interest in, or who will be directly affected by

the proposed change (including the applicant) must be notified of any pending action; and

B. No preliminary plat need be approved. The recommendations of the affected entities and the

approval of the planning commission may be based on a final plat.
18.18.060 - Correction of technical errors.

An amendment to correct a technical error, such as misnumbered street addresses or an errant note
on the plat may be done through recording an affidavit of correction by the director or director's designee.
Chapter 18.20 - DESIGN STANDARDS
18.20.010 - Departmental standards.

Standards for design, construction specifications and inspection of street improvements, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the engineering
division; standards for water distribution and sewage disposal facilities shall be prepared by the health
department, and similar standards for fire hydrants shal! be prepared by the fire department. All
subdividers shall comply with the standards established by such departments and agencies of the

| ceuntymetro township, provided that such standards shall be approved by the ceurntymetro_ township
council.
18.20.020 - Design standards generally.
Page 10

The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to streets, blocks, lots, open
spaces and other design factors shall be in harmony with design standards recommended by the
planning commission and by other departments and agencies of courtymetro township government.
Design standards shall be approved by the ceuntymetro township council and shall include provisions as
provided in Sections 18.20.030 through 18.20.050.

18.20.025 - Design standards for subdivisions located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone.

A. Design Shall Further Purposes and Goals of Overlay Zone. In subdivisions proposed for
development in the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72 in Title 19, Zoning), the
general layout of lots, roads, driveways, utilities, drainage facilities, and other services within the
proposed subdivision shall be designed in a way that minimizes the amount of land disturbance,
maximizes the amount of open space in the development, preserves existing trees/vegetation,
protects critical wildlife habitat, and otherwise accomplishes the purposes and intent of the foothills
and canyons overlay zone.

B. Consider/Apply Zoning Development Standards. Applicants shall consider and apply the
development standards set forth in Chapter 19.72 in (1) the layout of the subdivision and (2) the
designation of buildable areas on individual lots (see subsection C of this section) in order to avoid
creating lots or patterns of lots that will make compliance with such development standards difficult
or infeasible.

C. Designations of Buildable Areas. All preliminary and final subdivision plats shall outline buildable
areas on each lot intended to accommodate planned principal and accessory structures.

D. Clustering of Lots. Clustering of lots within a subdivision is strongly encouraged and may be required
by the planning commission to meet the requirements of this provision and the overlay zone.

18.20.030 - Blocks.

A. Blocks shall not exceed one thousand six hundred feet in length.

B. Blocks shall be wide enough to adequately accommodate two tiers of lots.

C. Dedicated walkways through the block may be required where access is necessary to a point
designated by the planning commission. Such walkways shall be a minimum of six feet in width, but
may be required to be wider where determined necessary by the planning commission. The
subdivider shall surface the full width of the walkway with a concrete surface, install a chain-link
fence or its equal four feet high on each side and the full length of each walkway and provide, in
accordance with the standards, rules and regulations, barriers at each walkway entrance to prevent
the use of the walkway, by any motor vehicle or by any other nonmotorized vehicle wider than four
feet.

D. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed specifically for such purposes with
adequate space set aside for off-street parking and delivery facilities.

18.20.040 - Lots.

A. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites
for buildings and be properly designed according to topography, the character of surrounding
development, and to existing requirements.

B. All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats must conform to the minimum requirements of the
zoning title, if any, for the zone in which the subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements
of the health department for water supply and sewage disposal.

Page 11

C. Each lot shall abut on a street shown on the subdivision plat or on an existing publicly dedicated
street which has become public by right of use and which is more than twenty-six feet wide, or have
an approved access via private right-of-way to a public street shown on the plat. Double frontage lots
shall be prohibited except where unusual conditions make other designs undesirable.

D. Side lines or lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to the street lines.

E. In general, all remnants of lots below minimum size must be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.

18.20.050 - Protection strips.

Where subdivision streets parallel contiguous property of other owners, the subdivider may, upon
approval of the planning commission, retain a protection strip not less than one foot in width between the
street and adjacent property; provided, that an agreement, approved by the attorney, has been made by
the subdivider, contracting to deed to the then owners of the contiguous property, the one-lot or larger
protection strip for a consideration named in the agreement; such consideration to be not more than the
fair cost of land in the protection strip, the street improvements properly chargeable to the contiguous
property, plus the value of one-half the land in the street at the time of agreement, together with interest
at a fair rate from the time of agreement until the time of the subdivision of such contiguous property. One
copy of the agreement shail be submitted by the attorney to the planning commission prior to approval of
the final plat. Protection strips shall not be permitted at the end of or within the boundaries of a public
street or proposed street or within any area intended for future public use.

18.20.060 - Overpressure area.

Subdivisions within the 0.2 and 0.3 PSI overpressure areas as defined in Section 15.14.010 and
shown on the special development standards areas map shall be designed, to the extent possible, to
orient the side yards of the lots toward the center of the overpressure areas. This lot orientation (in
conjunction with the manner in which the structure is placed on the lot, the design of the structure, and
the type, location, and size of glass surfaces in the structure) is intended to reduce the possibility of
damage within the overpressure area in the event of an accidental explosion. New subdivisions shall not
be approved in the 0.5 PSI overpressure area. The special development standards areas map is
available in the planning and development services division office during regular office hours.

Chapter 18.24 - REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS

18.24.010 - Certification of improvements.

No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded without receiving a statement signed by the
planning and development services division certifying that the improvements described in the subdivider's
plans and specifications have been completed (or that a bond has been submitted for the required
improvements as allowed under Section 18.24.170), that they meet the minimum requirements of all

| ordinances of the courtymetro township, that they comply with the standards and requirements of the
health department, the planning and development services division, the planning commission and the fire
authority serving the area.

18.24.020 - Sewers.

Page 12

Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from all inlets
and catchbasins, and shall be connected to an adequate outfall. A stormwater drainage system subject to
the approval of the planning and development services division shall be provided, and shall be separate
and independent of the sanitary sewer system. The final plans for the drainage system shall be prepared

| by a licensed engineer not in the employ of the county_or metro township.

18.24.025 - Public sanitary sewer.

A. Where public sewer service is available to the subdivision, a public sanitary sewer system, including
main lines and laterals from the main to each lot property line, shall be constructed throughout the
entire subdivision in accordance with plans and technical standards required by the entity providing
public sewer service to the subdivision and shall be connected to the public sewer system.

B. In cases where public sewer service is not presently available to the subdivision, alternate waste
disposal systems may only be permitted and used provided that the subdivider or developer installs
and constructs concurrently therewith sanitary sewer laterals and mains within the subdivision
streets to a point on the subdivision boundary where future connection with the public sewer system
shall be made. Sewer laterals shall be laid from each lot to the main line in each street, and a
connection shall be available on each lot to connect from the alternate waste disposal systems to the
sewer system when public sewer becomes available and operational. Such sanitary sewer system
shall be capped until ready for use and shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision in
accordance with plans and technical standards required by the entity that will provide public sewer
service to the subdivision in the future.

| C. The ceuntymetro township mayor may exempt the subdivider from the requirements of this section
upon a finding that public sewer service is unlikely to be provided to the subdivision in the future due
to physical inaccessibility of the terrain. Prior to making a decision concerning a requested

| exemption, the courtymetro township mayor shall request a written recommendation from the
planning commission, a county_or metro township engineer, and from the entity most likely to provide
sewer service to the area in which the subdivision is located.

18.24.030 - Storm drainage.

No ditch or canal shall be approved as suitable for the use of storm drainage water without the
written permission of the appropriate ditch or canal company or of the water users for such use. No ditch
or canal shall be used for stormwaters unless adequately improved to handle such water as might be
reasonably expected to flow from canal and ditch water, subdivision runoff water, and other water
expected to reach such canal or ditch. No ditch, canal or other waterway shall be permitted within
property dedicated or to be dedicated for public use. The subdivider shall remove such waterways from
property to be so dedicated prior to the construction of required off-site improvements.

18.24.040 - Street improvements.

A. The subdivider shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing
and proposed, within the subdivision to the planning and development services division. Plans and
profiles are to be prepared by a licensed_professional engineer licensed to practice in the state of
Utah _and_not in the employ of the county_or metro township and shall be accompanied by the final
plat. The subdivider must also provide a GIS data corresponding to the submitted plans as required
by Chapter 18.16.020. The planning and development services division shall, within a reasonable
time not to exceed twenty days from the receipt of the plans and profiles, notify the subdivider of
approval, and in case of disapproval the reasons therefor.

Page 13

B. At least ten days prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider shall furnish to the
planning and development services division three complete sets of approved construction plans and
profiles of all streets, existing and proposed_as well as all corresponding GIS data in a format
compatible with this ordinance. Such plans and profiles shall include:

1. The designation of limits of work to be done;

2. The location of the bench mark and its true elevation according to County Policy 1013,
“Standards for Geographic information System” and the “Salt Lake County Public Works
Engineering GIS Standards,” countydatum—all profiles to be referred to in those standardsthat
coeuay

3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for each side of the street. Separate
profiles, clearly designated, shall be made for each side of the street;

4. Construction plans which include the details of curb and gutter and street cross-sections,
location and elevation of manholes, catchbasins and storm sewers, elevations and location of
fire hydrants and any other detail necessary to simplify construction:

5. Complete date for field layout and office checking;

6. On-curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides those at points of
curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to insure drainage at intersection;

7. The street address of the project_as approved by County; Planning Number, and subdivision
name if applicable.

18.24.050 - Arrangement of streets.

The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the
existing streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as
such continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the planning commission. New streets must
connect with existing public streets.

18.24.060 - Utility and facility systems to be underground.

All utility and facility systems including, but not limited to, all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables,
conduits, and pipes providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas,
water, sewer, steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution systems, and transmission systems

| shall be placed underground in accordance with ceurntymetro township ordinances and policies. (Refer to

Chapter 19.79 of this code, Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations.)

: 7 ae ;
safety and-welfare_of-residents-and-_businesses_tocated in Salt Lake County through the installation-of-a

Al-streettighis intended_toiuminate the _public_street shall be installed in accordance withthe
“Standard-Specifications-for Street Light Construction" as established and approved by the-public-works
accordinahe

A—Foeral} residential rrudti-famuly resid ential pla nnedinit-davels pment. soemmercial_and ndustria

rir acti Of thi Wanbe: fii
shall instalLand pay the instatiation- costs for streetlights as-_shown-on-the approved subdivision
plat orsite plan-and to_pesta_bend pursuant fte-seciion 1824 170 guaranteeing proper
Page 14

: "Standard Specifications for Street | ight Conetr ction”)
C—\Fhe-subdivider_or designee _shall submit completed_as-—built drawings tothe —public_works
operations directer or designee_within thirty days of the completion of the instaliatien-of a-street
DT F : ; al ie.
41—_Te_enferce this _sechon_and_te_ensure_that _street_ight astatiaton is—cempleted in
2—_Te-vary the standards referenced inthis section and to approve alternative street o-YA he-standarad eferensed_inthis—section—and—_to—approve_alternative—s eet light
——— hority- : F : .
18.24.080 - Pavement requirements.
| A. All streets within the countymetro township shall be improved with pavements bounded by integral
concrete curbs and gutters to an overall width in accordance with the standards, rules and
| regulations adopted by the countymetro township council.

B. Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the standards, rules and

| regulations adopted by the countymetro township council.

18.24.090 - Curbs and gutters.

A. After October 7, 1963, curbs and gutters on all streets shall be concrete of the standard high-back-
type unit, not less than two feet, six inches in overall width, and not less than seven inches thick
where the curb abuts the street pavement.

Page 15

B. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty-five feet or thirty-five feet on streets
designated as collector or arterial streets.

C. The subdivider shall install curbs, gutters and sidewalks on existing and proposed streets in all
subdivisions.

18.24.100 - Street name signs.

Street name signs, conforming to the design and specifications and in the number provided by the
standards, rules and regulations of the operations division, shall be provided by the developer at ail street
intersections. Installation shall be made by the operations division to insure uniformity.

18.24.105 - Trails.
The subdivider shall dedicate trails necessary to provide public access to public lands and other
| trails shown on the countymetro township general plans or required by the planning commission. Trails
shall be located so that the route is feasible for both construction and long-term maintenance; sideslopes
shall not exceed seventy percent and rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions shall be
avoided. The specific location of the trail right-of-way shall be verified on the ground before approval of
the subdivision. The amount of land required for trail dedication without compensation shall not exceed
five percent of the land within the subdivision excluding trails located within a standard street right-of-way.
18.24.110 - Fire hydrants.

Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions in accordance with the regulations of the fire
department.

18.24.120 - Stormwater inlets and catchbasins.

Stormwater inlets and catchbasins shall be provided within the roadway improvements at points
specified by the planning and development services division.
18.24.130 - Open ditches and canals—Permitted when.

Open ditches or canals shall not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except along rear or
side lot lines. The subdivider shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch companies as to:

A. Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining the

subdivision;

B. The size of pipe and culverts required:

C. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and maintenance of such ditches, pipes
and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or proposed public roads,
specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by the planning and
development services division.

18.24.140 - Open ditches and canals—Fencing requirements.
Page 16

The subdivider shall install a six-foot, nonclimbable chain-link fence, or its equivalent, in
conformance with the standards and rules and regulations adopted as provided in Section 18.20.010,
along all open ditches, canals or waterways, nonaccess streets, open reservoirs or bodies of water,
railroad rights-of-way and other such features of potentially hazardous nature on, crossing or contiguous
to the property being subdivided, except along those features which the planning commission shall
determine would not be a hazard to life, or where the conforming structure would create a hazard to the
safety of the public.

18.24.145 - Fencing requirements.

Where lots rear on a public street the developer shall install fencing along the street right-of-way
which is:

A. Uniform in design and materials within the subdivision:

B. A solid visual barrier screening;

C. A minimum of six feet high from the top of curb or, if there is no curb, from the crown of the

street;

D. Maintained by the abutting property owner,

E. Constructed with a sealant placed on any masonry fence to help with the removal of graffiti and

to preserve the surface;

F. Constructed according to development standards approved by the planning commission;

G. Placed on the property line with the space between the fence and the sidewalk hard surfaced or

planted with a perennial, climbing, groundcover and a sprinkling system.

18.24.150 - Construction of improvements.

| A. Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the county planning and
development services division shall be notified so that proper inspection may be provided and so that
it may be determined whether or not proper authorization and/or required permits for construction
have been obtained.

| B. As-built plans. and-profile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the planning
and development services division of all street improvements, storm sewer, sanitary sewer and water

| systems upon completion. The countymetro township shall retain the improvement bond until such
plans have been submitted.

C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the subdivider, the contractor and all other
associated agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly placed improvements
or facilities within the roadway sections during development.

18.24.160 - Responsibility for damages.

All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred during the period of development
shall be the sole responsibility of the subdivider and must be replaced to the satisfaction of the
countymetro township before final acceptance of any improvements caused by the subdivider or any
agents of the subdivider shall be repaired by the subdivider to the satisfaction of the csountymetro
township prior to final acceptance and bond release.

Page 17

18.24.170 - Performance bonds.

| A. In lieu of actual completion of the improvements listed in this chapter, subdividers may-shall file with
the seuntymetro township a surety or cash bond, an escrow agreement, or a letter of credit in an
amount specified by the mayor or mayor's designee to assure actual construction of such

| improvements within a two-year period. Fwenty-fiveA percentage. equal to the maximum amount
allowed by state law, of the bond amount for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk,
road surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall extend for a one-year period beyond the date the
improvements are completed to guarantee replacement of defective public improvements. A
percentage, equal to the maximum amount allowed by state law,Fwenty-five_percent of the bond
amount for live plant materials in common areas shall extend for a the maximum period allowed by
State lawtwoe-year-period beyond the date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead
plants. The bond or agreement shall also secure all lot improvements on individual lots on the
subdivision which are required in this chapter.

B. If the mayor or mayor's designee determines that the required improvements should be completed in
a specified sequence and/or in less than atwe-yearthis period in order to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the countymetro township or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or other
hazards, it may require in approving the final subdivision plat that the improvements, including
required landscaping be installed in a specified sequence and period which may be less than vo
yearsthis period and shall incorporate such requirements in the bond.

C. Inspections shall be made within five days from the date of the request. If inspection shows that

| ceuntymetro township standards and specifications have been met in the completion of such
improvements, the bond shall be released by the mayor or mayor's designee within seven days from

| the time of inspection and filing of the as-built plan. any corresponding GiS data (as required), and
profile drawings. If the bonds are not released, refusal to release and the reasons therefor shall be
given the subdivider in writing within seven days from the time of the inspection.

D. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter
3.56 of this code.

18.24.180 - Exemptions.

Churches and educational institutions shall, upon the submission of a letter guaranteeing the

improvements required by this chapter, be exempt from the provisions of Section 18.24.170.

18.24.190 - Fee in lieu of required improvements.

A. Where present conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install any required public
improvements, the mayor or mayor's designee may require the subdivider to pay to the county a fee
equal to the estimated cost of such improvements as determined by the director of planning and

| development services. Upon payment of the fee by the developer, the sountymetro township shall
assume the responsibility for future installation of such improvements.

B. The auditor shall establish a special account for such fees and shall credit to such account a

| proportioned share of interest earned from investment of countymetro township moneys. Records
relating to identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee amounts collected for
such properties and money transfer requests shall be the responsibility of the planning and
development services division.

Chapter 18.30 - FILING PROFESSIONAL SURVEYS

Page 18

18.30.010 - Filing required, indexing and fees.

A. Any registered professional land surveyor making a survey of private lands within this state who
establishes or reestablishes any private property boundary monument shall file a map of the survey
that meets the requirements of this chapter with the county surveyor within ninety days of the
establishment or reestablishment of the boundary monument.

B. The county surveyor shall file and index the map of the survey which will thereafter be a public
record in the office of the county surveyor and will be available for examination by the public. The
county surveyor will provide facilities for copying such maps and associated documents.

C. The fee to be charged and collected by the county surveyor for filing and indexing a map of survey
will be ten dollars.

D. The following fees are approved for copying service. They will be posted conspicuously in the

| surveyor's office. (They are subject to change as approved by the sountymetro township council.)
1. Copies of map of survey $2.00

| 2. Large (3 %' by 4 %') countymetro townshipwide maps 5.00
3. Area reference plats 2.00

4. Legal or letter size copies 0.50

E. The requirements of this section are in addition to Chapter 14.17, Excavation Permit for Monuments.

18.30.020 - Contents of maps.

A. The county surveyor will screen maps of survey that are submitted to him to ensure that they
conform to the requirements set forth in this chapter before receiving them. Such maps shall be
drawn on a twenty-four-inch by thirty-six-inch linen and shall show:

1. The location of survey by quarter section and township and range;

2. The date of survey;

3. The scale of drawing and north point;

4. The distance and course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing and the
distance and course to a section corner or quarter corner, including township and range, or an
identified monument within a recorded subdivision;

5. All measured bearings, angles and distances separately indicated from those of record;

6. Awritten boundary description of property surveyed:

7. All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found;

8. Adetailed description of monuments found and monuments set, indicated separately;

9. The surveyor's seal or stamp;

10. The surveyor'’s business name and address.

18.30.030 - Written narrative.

Page 19

A. The map of survey will include a written narrative either on the map itself or on a separate document.
If on a separate document, such narrative will be typed on eight-and-one-half-inch by eleven-inch
white paper of a permanent nature on stable base. The narrative will include:

1. An explanation of the purpose of the survey;

2. The basis on which the lines were established; and

3. The found monuments and deed elements that controlled the established or reestablished lines;
4. The location of the survey by quarter section and by township and range;

5. The date of the survey;

6. The surveyor's stamp or seal; and

7. The surveyor's business name and address.

B. The map and narrative will be referenced to each other if they are separate documents.

18.30.040 - Marking monuments.

A. Any monument set by a registered professional land surveyor to mark or reference a point on a
property of land or land line shall be durably and visibly marked or tagged with the registered
business name or the letters "L.S." followed by the registration number of the surveyor in charge.

B. If the monument is set by a public officer, it shall be marked with the official title of the office.

18.30.050 - Changes of section or quarter section corners.

A. — If, in the performance of a survey, the surveyor finds or makes changes in the section corner or
quarter-section corner, or their accessories as they are described in an existing corner record or
survey map in the office of the county surveyor, the surveyor shall complete and submit to the county
surveyor a record of the changes needed to be made to any corner or accessories to the corner.

B. The record shall be submitted within forty-five days of the corner visits and shall include the
surveyor's seal, business name, and address.

18.30.060 - Compliance by governmental agencies.

Any federal or state agency, board or commission, special district, or municipal corporation that
| makes a survey of lands within SaitLakeEmigration Canyon GountyMetro Township shall comply with this
chapter.

18.30.070 - Amendment by affidavit.

A. Any survey map or narrative filed and recorded under the provisions of this chapter may be
amended by an affidavit of corrections:

1. To show any courses or distances omitted from the map or narrative;
2. Tocorrect an error in the description of the real property shown on the map or narrative; or
3. To correct any other errors or omissions where the error or omission is ascertainable from the
data shown on the map or narrative as recorded.
Page 20

B. The affidavit of correction shall be prepared by the registered professional land surveyor who filed
the map or narrative.

C. In the event of the death, disability or retirement from practice of the surveyor who filed the map or
narrative, the county surveyor may prepare the affidavit of correction.

D. The affidavit shall set forth in detail the corrections made.

E. The seal and signature of the registered professional land surveyor filing the affidavit of correction
shall be affixed to the affidavit.

18.30.080 - County surveyor certification.

A. The county surveyor having jurisdiction of the map or narrative shall certify that the affidavit of
correction has been examined and that the changes shown on the map or narrative are changes
permitted under this section.

B. Nothing in this section permits changes in courses or distances for the purpose of redesigning parcel
configurations.

18.30.090 - Penalty.

Failure to file a map of survey as required in this chapter shall be a Class C misdemeanor and shall
be punishable by imprisonment not exceeding ninety days and/or a fine not exceeding five hundred
dollars.

Chapter 18.32 - HEALTH DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS

18.32.010 - Adoption of health regulations.

The provisions of the health department Health Regulation No. 12, entitled "Subdivisions," as
currently adopted by the board of health under authority of the Utah State Code are incorporated in their
entirety by reference. Three copies of the current regulations shall be filed with and retained by the county
clerk and the health department for examination by any person.

18.32.020 - Violations.

Violation of any provision of any health regulation incorporated into this title shall constitute a Class B
misdemeanor as defined by the Utah State Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as such.

Chapter 18.36 - FEES, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

18.36.010 - Building permit issuance.

From the time of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this title, the building inspector shall

| not grant a permit, nor shall any county_or metro township officer grant any license or permit for the use of
any land or the construction or alteration of any building or structure on a lot which would be in violation of
Page 21

any provisions of this title until a subdivision plat therefor has been recorded or approved as required in
this chapter. Any license or permit issued in conflict with such provisions shall be void.
18.36.020 - Filing fee.

Any and all persons filing plats with the county recorder shall first have paid all fees required in this
title. In addition, persons filing plats shall pay to the planning and development services division prior to
recording, an office checking fee as provided for in Section 3.48.020.

18.36.030 - Inspections.

| Appropriate agencies and departments of the ceuntymetro township shall inspect or cause to be
inspected al! buildings, street improvements, fire hydrants and water supply and sewage disposal
systems in the course of construction, installation or repair. Excavations for the fire hydrants and water
and sewer mains and laterals shall not be covered or backfilled until such installation shall have been
approved by the planning and development services division. If any such installation is covered before
being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered after notice to uncover has been issued to the
responsible person by the inspector.
18.36.040 - Enforcement authority.

The planning and development services division, the fire department, the highway division, the

| planning commission, and such other departments and agencies of ceuntymetro township government as
are specified under the provisions of this title are designated and authorized as the agencies charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of this title and shall enter such actions in court as are necessary.
Failure of such departments to pursue appropriate legal remedies shall not legalize any violation of such
provisions.
Chapter 18.40 - VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
18.40.010 - Prohibited acts.

| No person shall subdivide any tract or parcel of land located wholly or in part in the seuntymetro
township except in compliance with the provisions of this title. No person shall purchase, sell or exchange
any parcel of land that is any part of a subdivision or a proposed subdivision submitted to the planning
commission, nor offer for recording in the office of the county recorder any deed conveying such parcel of
land or any fee interest therein, unless such subdivision has been created pursuant to and in accordance
with the provisions of this title.
18.40.020 - Violation—Penalty.

Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this title, including the violation of a condition, limitation
or requirement contained on a recorded subdivision plat, shail be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction of any such violation, shall be punished as provided by the state criminal code for Class B
misdemeanors.

Page 22
