Title 19 - Zoning


Chapter 19.02 - GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION



19.02.010 - Title for citation.

     This title shall be known as the "Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Salt LakeEmigration Canyon
CountyMetro Township, Utah," and may be so cited and pleaded. This title shall also be known as Title
19, Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township Code of Ordinances.



19.02.020 - Purpose of provisions.

     This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
conveniences, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Salt LakeEmigration
Canyon CountyMetro Township, including, among other things, the lessening of congestion in the streets
or roads, securing safety from fire and other dangers, providing adequate light and air, classification of
land uses and distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the tax base, securing
economy in governmental expenditures, fostering the countymetro township's agricultural and other
industries, and the protection of both urban and nonurban development.




19.02.030 - Interpretation as minimum requirements.

     In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements contained herein are
declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes set forth.




19.02.040 - Resolution of conflicts.

     This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements, other ordinances,
or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.




19.02.050 - Effect on previous ordinances and maps.

      The existing ordinances of the countymetro township covering the zoning of areas and districts in
Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township, in their entirety and including the maps theretofore
adopted and made a part of such ordinances, are hereby superseded and amended to read as set forth in
this title; provided, however that this title, including the maps on file with the planning commission and by
this reference made a part hereof, shall be deemed a continuation of previous ordinances, and not a new
enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of previous ordinances is included in this title, whether in
the same or in different language; and this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions of construction,
including but not limited to questions of construction, relating to tenure of officers and boards established
by previous ordinances, and to questions of conforming or nonconforming uses, buildings or structures,




                                                                                                      Page 1
and to questions as to the dates upon which such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or
nonconforming.




19.02.060 - Licensing requirements.

      All departments, officials and public employees of the countymetro township which are vested with
the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this title and shall issue
no permits or licenses for use, building or purpose where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the provisions of this title, shall be null
and void.




19.02.070 - Time computation.

A.    In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the day of the act, event or
     decision after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The last day of
     the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which
     event the period runs until the end of the next day, which is neither a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday.
     When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays,
     Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the computation. A half-holiday shall be considered as
     other days and not as a holiday.
B.   The date of a decision or recommendation of the planning commission shall be the date of the public
     meeting or hearing such decision or recommendation is made. If the decision is made by the
     development services director, the date of the decision shall be the date specified on the property
     owner's notification letter in the application file.




19.02.080 - Site plans required—Contents.

      A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by the director) shall be
filed as part of any application prior to consideration or for any building permit. The site plan shall show,
where pertinent:
     A.   Note of scale used;
     B.   Direction of North point;
     C.    Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way;
     D.    Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties (completely
          dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc);
     E.   Location of the proposed construction and improvements, including the location of all signs;
     F.   Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls, circulation patterns, curb, gutter, and
          sidewalk location;
     G.    Necessary explanatory notes;
     H.    Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner;
     I.   All other information that may be required, as determined by the director.




                                                                                                             Page 2
19.02.090 - Building and use permits required.

     Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or any part thereof, as
provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with except after the issuance
of a written permit for the same by the county building official. The use of the land shall not be
commenced or proceeded with except upon the issuance of a written permit for the same by the
development services division director or designee. No use permit shall be required for land used for
agricultural purposes, as defined in this title, and/or for the keeping or raising of animals or fowl.




19.02.100 - Compliance prerequisite to permit issuance.

A.   No building permit may be issued without first having been approved by the building official. The
     building official shall not approve a building permit if any building, structure or use of land would be in
     violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall any other countymetro township officer grant
     any permit or license nor the use of any building or land if use would be in violation of this title.
B.    Neither the building official nor any other countymetro township officer shall grant any permit,
     license, or land use approval of any building or land in violation of chapter 9.25, entitled "Water
     Source Protection."




19.02.110 - Improvements—Performance bonds.

A.    Any improvements required under this title or by the planning commission, including but not limited
     to curb, gutter and sidewalk, fences, landscaping, streets, fire hydrants and parking, shall be
     satisfactorily installed prior to the countymetro township authorizing electrical service being provided;
     or, if no electrical service is required, prior to issuance of any occupancy permit for the land being
     developed. In lieu of actual completion of such improvements, or in the case of landscaping, in
     addition to, except where seasonal considerations reasonably preclude installation of live plant
     materials, and prior to electrical service being provided or occupancy permit, a developer may file
     with the mayorcouncil chair or his designee a cash or surety bond or escrow agreement or letter of
     credit, in an amount specified by the mayorcouncil chair or his designee, to ensure completion of
     improvements within one year. Twenty-five percent of the bond amount for public improvements,
     such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road surfacing and fire hydrants, shall extend for a one-year period
     beyond the date the improvements are completed, to guarantee replacement of such defective public
     improvements. Twenty-five percent of the bond amount for live plant materials shall extend for a two-
     year period beyond the date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants. Upon
     completion of the improvements for which a bond or escrow agreement has been filed, the developer
     shall call for inspections of the improvements by the development services director or his authorized
     agent.
B.    If the mayorcouncil chair or designee determines that the required improvements should be
     completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than a one-year period in order to protect the
     health, safety and welfare of the countymetro township or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or
     other hazards, the mayorcouncil chair or designee may require in approving the bond that the
     improvements be installed in a specified sequence and period which may be less than one year and
     shall incorporate such requirements in the bond.
C.   Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter
     3.56 of this code.
D.   When the developer is a school district, municipality, service area, special-purpose district or other
     political subdivision of the state, the mayorcouncil chair may waive the bond and accept a letter from



                                                                                                        Page 3
    the governing body guaranteeing installation of the improvements. Before approving any such
    waiver, the mayorcouncil chair shall receive a recommendation from the public works director.




19.02.120 - Development standards.

     The planning commission may adopt development standards for use as a guide in conditional use
review and subdivision design, and for use in site plan review for single-family dwellings in forest and
recreation zones.




19.02.130 - Land use applications.

      The director of planning and development services ("the director") or the director's designee shall be
the administrator of the Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township zoning ordinance. In order to
assure that each proposed land use or proposed amendment to an existing land use is handled
consistently and fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director or director's designee shall
administer application and review procedures as outlined herein unless specific procedures are otherwise
provided in the zoning ordinance. Applications shall be diligently prosecuted to completion by the
applicant to ensure that any action taken to approve or deny an application is based on current
information. An application shall not be considered complete until all application fees have been paid and
all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and preliminary plans for a pre-
submittal review does not constitute a complete application. The land use application process shall
consist of the following:
    A.    An application procedure, which shall include:
         1.   Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's designee,
              which clearly indicates the type and purpose of the application, property address, and
              applicant information;
         2.   Submission of a legal description of the property plat, a designated number of site plans,
              building elevations, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;
         3.   Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.
    B.    A review procedure, which may include:
         1.   The creation of a planning file by which the applicant, staff, and the public can refer to the
              proposed land use;
         2.   An on-site review by the director or director's designee as allowed in Utah Code 17-27a10-
              9a-303;
         3.   Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with the zoning ordinance;
         4.   Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and/or affected
              entities necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the
              project's compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;
    C.    An approval procedure, which shall include:
         1.   The integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and affected
              entities involved in subsection (B)(4) of this section into the final site plan and/or elevations;
         2.   An approval letter or other written document indicating the approval or denial of the
              application with appropriate conditions as needed to ensure compliance with all applicable
              codes, ordinances, and regulations;



                                                                                                        Page 4
          3.   Provision of the approved site plan and approval letter or denial letter to the applicant in a
               timely manner.




19.02.140 - Deputy mayor and the chief administrative officer designated to conduct county's land use
hearings and execute land use documents.

    In accordance with state law and county ordinance, the county council hereby designates the deputy
mayor and the chief administrative officer to conduct the county's land use hearings and execute land use
documents in its behalf.




Chapter 19.04 - DEFINITIONS



19.04.005 - Definitions and interpretation of language.

     For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as set out in this chapter. Words
used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the plural and the plural
the singular; and words included herein but defined in the building code shall be construed as defined
therein.




19.04.010 - Abandonment.

     "Abandonment." See Section 19.88.130.




19.04.020 - Agriculture.

     "Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and gardening, but not
including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except household pets, and not including any
agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.




19.04.025 - Airport.

     "Airport" means any landing area, runway or other facility designed, used or intended to be used
either publicly or by any persons for the landing and taking off of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways,
aircraft storage and tiedown areas, hangars, and all other necessary buildings and open spaces.




19.04.030 - Alley.

     "Alley" means a public thoroughfare less than twenty-five feet wide.



                                                                                                       Page 5
19.04.035 - Amusement device.

       "Amusement device" means any video game, pinball or other machine, whether mechanically or
electronically operated that, upon insertion of a coin, trade-token, slug or similar object, or upon payment
of money or other consideration through use of a metered or similar device, operates or may be operated
as a game or contest of skill or amusement of any kind or description, and that contains no automatic
payoff for the return of money or trade-tokens, or that makes no provision whatever for the return of
money to the player. An amusement device is further defined as any machine, apparatus or contrivance
that is used or that may be used as a game of skill and amusement wherein or whereby the player
initiates, employs or directs any force generated by the machine. An amusement device shall exclude
billiard, pool or bagatelle tables.




19.04.040 - Antique.

   "Antique" means a relic, work of art, piece of furniture or other decorative object of ancient times, or
made in a former age or period, highly valued for its beauty, craftsmanship or rarity.




19.04.045 - Apartment court.

     "Apartment court" means any building or group of buildings which contains dwelling units, and also
satisfies the definition of tourist court, as defined in this chapter.




19.04.050 - Apartment house.

    "Apartment house" means a multiple dwelling; see "Dwelling, multiple-family."




19.04.055 - Apartment hotel.

     "Apartment hotel" means any building which contains dwelling units and also satisfies the definition
of a hotel, as defined in this chapter.




19.04.057 - Apartments for elderly persons.

     "Apartments for elderly persons" means an apartment building or complex of buildings, twenty-four
units or greater for occupancy exclusively by persons at least sixty-two years of age.




19.04.060 - Arcade.




                                                                                                     Page 6
     "Arcade" means any business catering to minors, containing four or more amusement devices.




19.04.065 - Area of special flood hazard.

    "Area of special flood hazard" means the land in the floodplain within a community subject to a one-
percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.




19.04.070 - Base flood.

     "Base flood" means a flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.




19.04.075 - Basement.

       "Basement" means any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor level in a
building having only one floor level shall be classified as a basement unless such floor level qualifies as a
first story.




19.04.077 - Bed and breakfast homestay.

      "Bed and breakfast homestay" means a dwelling which has frontage on a street with a minimum
right-of-way of sixty feet, contains a maximum of five guestrooms, is occupied by the owner or individual
responsible for operating the facility, and used for accommodations or lodging of guests paying
compensation. Breakfast may be served during the a.m. hours. Lunch or dinner may not be served. This
use shall not change the character of the dwelling or property for residential purposes, and shall meet the
requirements of the health department and the Salt Lake County fire department. (The requirements of
the health department limit breakfast to a continental-type breakfast unless certain specified health
regulations are met.)




19.04.078 - Bed and breakfast inn.

     "Bed and breakfast inn" means a building containing a minimum of six guestrooms, but not more
than thirty guestrooms (except the R-4-8.5 and R-M zones which are limited to a maximum of twenty
guestrooms), is used for accommodations or lodging of guests paying compensation where at least a
breakfast meal is served, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any individual guestroom. The
structure shall have a residential appearance, and be limited to a maximum of two stories in height.




19.04.080 - Boardinghouse.

    "Boardinghouse" means a building with not more than five guestrooms, where, for compensation,
meals are provided for at least five but not more than fifteen persons.


                                                                                                      Page 7
19.04.085 - Building.

     "Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing or
enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.




19.04.090 - Building, accessory.

     "Accessory building" means a detached, subordinate building clearly incidental to and located upon
the same lot occupied by the main building. Also, a building clearly incidental to an agriculture or animal
care land use located on a lot in an agriculture zone, which lot meets the minimum lot size for such zone
and is not under one acre in area.




19.04.095 - Building, height of.

A.   "Height of building" means the vertical distance above the lowest original ground surface at any point
     on the perimeter of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a
     mansard roof, or to a level midway between the level of the eaves and the highest point of pitched or
     hipped roofs, or to a level two-thirds of the distance from the level of the eaves to the highest point of
     gambrel roofs. For purposes of measuring height, the "level of the eaves" means the highest level
     where the plane of the roof intersects the plane of the outside wall on any side containing an eave.
B.   Buildings may be stepped to accommodate the slope of the terrain provided that each step shall be
     at least twelve feet in horizontal dimension. The height of each stepped building segment shall be
     measured as required in subsection A.
C.    Original ground surface shall be the elevation of the ground surface in its natural state before any
     manmade alterations including but not limited to grading, excavation or filling, excluding
     improvements required by zoning or subdivision ordinances. When the elevation of the original
     ground surface is not readily apparent because of previous manmade alterations, the elevation of the
     original grade shall be determined by the development services division using the best information
     available.




19.04.100 - Building, main.

     "Main building" means the principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a lot, or the
building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use upon a lot.




19.04.105 - Canopy.

     "Canopy" means a roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to the ground
directly underneath the canopy, and providing a protective shield for service-station pump islands and
walkways.




                                                                                                         Page 8
19.04.110 - Carport.

       "Carport" means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the purpose of this
title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a private garage.




19.04.112 - Check cashing.

     "Check cashing" means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan (as
defined by the Check Cashing Regulation Act of the Utah Code) but does not include the activities of
depository institutions or persons who cash a check in a transaction that is incidental to the retail sale of
goods or services for consideration that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the amount of the
check or one dollar.




19.04.115 - Child nursery.

     "Child nursery" means an establishment for the care, whether or not for compensation, of up to six
children other than members of the family residing on the premises.




19.04.120 - Church.

    "Church" means a building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where persons regularly
assemble for religious worship, and which building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, is
maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship.




19.04.125 - Class A beer outlet.

     "Class A beer outlet" means a place of business wherein beer is sold in original containers to be
consumed off the premises in accordance with the Liquor Control Act of the state and the licensing
ordinance of the countymetro township.




19.04.130 - Class B beer outlet.

     "Class B beer outlet" means a place of business in connection with a bona fide restaurant wherein
beer is sold in original containers for consumption on the premises; provided, that the sale of beer is less
than forty percent of the gross dollar value, subject to the provisions of the licensing ordinance of the
countymetro township.




19.04.135 - Class C beer outlet.

      "Class C beer outlet" means a place of business wherein the primary or main business is that of
selling beer for consumption on the premises.


                                                                                                      Page 9
19.04.140 - Conditional use.

    "Conditional use" means a use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to
Chapter 19.84 of this title.




19.04.145 - Corral.

      "Corral" means a space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one hundred
feet in width, used for the confinement of animals.




19.04.150 - Court.

    "Court" means an occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be partially surrounded by
group dwellings.




19.04.155 - Dairy.

     "Dairy" means a commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy products.




19.04.160 - Day care/preschool center.

     "Day care/preschool center" means:
     A.   Any facility, other than an occupied dwelling, operated by a person qualified by the state, which
          provides day care, protection or supervision and/or preschool instruction.
     B.   No person who is violent or being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse can be placed in a day
          care/preschool center. Placement in a day care/preschool center may not be part of or in lieu of
          confinement, rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility.




19.04.165 - Development.

      "Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including but
not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations.




19.04.166 - Director.

     "Director" means the director of the Salt Lake County planning and development services division.



                                                                                                       Page 10
19.04.167 - Development services division.

    "Development services division" means the Salt Lake County public works, planning and
development services division.




19.04.168 - Disability.

     "Disability" means a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a person's
major life activities, including a person having a record of such an impairment or being regarded as
having such an impairment. "Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any
federally controlled substance, as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C.
802.




19.04.170 - District.

    "District" means a portion of the unincorporated area of Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro
Township.




19.04.175 - Drive-in refreshment stand.

    "Drive-in refreshment stand" means a place of business where food and drink are sold primarily for
consumption on the premises outside the structure.




19.04.180 - Dwelling.

     "Dwelling" means any building, or portion thereof, which is designated for use for residential
purposes, except hotels, apartment hotels, boardinghouses, lodginghouses, tourist courts and apartment
courts.




19.04.185 - Dwelling, four-family.

     "Four-family dwelling" means a single building under a continuous roof containing four dwelling units
completely separated by either: (1) common interior walls, where the units are side by side; or (2)
common interior floors, where the units are one above the other. A common wall(s) may be located within
an attached garage used for the storage of private automobiles.




19.04.190 - Dwelling group.




                                                                                                  Page 11
    "Dwelling group" means a group of two or more dwellings located on a parcel of land in one
ownership and having any yard or court in common.




19.04.195 - Dwelling, multiple-family.

     "Multiple-family dwelling" means a building arranged or designed to be occupied by more than four
families.




19.04.200 - Dwelling, single-family.

     "Single-family dwelling" means a building arranged or designed to be occupied by one family, the
structure having only one dwelling unit.




19.04.205 - Dwelling, three-family.

     "Three-family dwelling" means a single building under a continuous roof containing three dwelling
units completely separated by either: (1) common interior walls, where the units are side by side; or (2)
common interior floors, where the units are one above the other. A common wall(s) may be located within
an attached garage used for the storage of private automobiles.




19.04.210 - Dwelling, two-family.

     "Two-family dwelling" means a single building under a continuous roof containing two dwelling units
completely separated by either: (1) a common interior wall, where the units are side by side; or (2) a
common interior floor, where the units are one above the other. A common wall may be located within an
attached garage used for the storage of private automobiles.




19.04.215 - Dwelling unit.

     "Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an independent
housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for cooking
and sleeping. Buildings with more than one kitchen or set of cooking facilities are considered to contain
more than one dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are clearly accessory to a dwelling unit
as determined by the development services director. Factors for determining whether cooking facilities
are accessory to a dwelling unit may include but are not limited to:
     1.    A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of the building
          including cooking facilities;
     2.   No portion of the building containing cooking facilities can be separated from the remaining
          rooms to form a separate dwelling unit;
     3.   There is only one electric and/or gas meter for the building.




                                                                                                    Page 12
19.04.220 - Entrance.

     "Entrance" means the location of ingress to a room, building or lot; a location of admittance.




19.04.225 - Exit.

     "Exit" means the location of egress from a room, building or lot.




19.04.230 - Family.

     "Family" means:
     A.   Any number of people living together in a dwelling unit and related by blood, marriage or
          adoption, and including up to three additional unrelated people; or
     B.   One to four unrelated people living together in a dwelling.
                Each unrelated person owning or operating a motor vehicle shall have a lawfully located
          off-street parking space.




19.04.235 - Family food production.

     "Family food production" means the keeping of not more than two cows, two sheep, two goats,
twenty rabbits, fifty chickens, fifty pheasants, ten ducks, ten turkeys, ten geese and twenty pigeons,
provided that not more than three of the above-listed kinds of animals and fowl are permitted at any one
time on any lot in zones where family food production may be a permitted or conditional use.




19.04.240 - Flood or flooding.

    "Flood" or "flooding" means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
     A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
     B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.




19.04.245 - Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).

     "Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)" means the official map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community.




                                                                                                      Page 13
19.04.250 - Flood insurance study.

     "Flood insurance study" means the official report provided by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map, and the water surface elevation of
the base flood.




19.04.255 - Floodway.

     "Floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than one foot.




19.04.260 - Frontage.

     "Frontage" means all property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting or intercepting
streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, end of dead-end streets, or political subdivision
boundary, measured along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the
frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.




19.04.265 - Garage, private.

     "Private garage" means an accessory building designed or used for the storage of not more than four
automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory; provided, that on a
lot occupied by a multiple dwelling, the private garage may be designed and used for the storage of one
and one-half times as many automobiles as there are dwelling units in the multiple dwelling. A garage
shall be considered part of a dwelling if the garage and the dwelling have a roof or wall in common. A
private garage may not be used for storage of more than one truck for each family dwelling upon the
premises, and no such truck shall exceed two and one-half tons capacity.




19.04.270 - Garage, public.

     "Public garage" means a building or portion thereof, other than a private garage, designed or used
for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or storing motor-driven vehicles.




19.04.275 - Grade.

     "Grade" means the lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk
within the area between the building and the property line or, when the property line is more than five feet
from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the building.




19.04.277 - Graffiti.


                                                                                                   Page 14
     "Graffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings or other visual defacing of buildings, structures or
natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not otherwise authorized and
permitted in the Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township ordinances.




19.04.280 - Guest.

     "Guest" means a transient person who rents or occupies a room for sleeping purposes.




19.04.285 - Guestroom.

    "Guestroom" means a room which is designed for double occupancy by guests, for sleeping
purposes.




19.04.290 - Guest house.

     "Guest house" means a separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more main dwelling
structures and used for housing of guests or servants, and not rented, leased or sold separate from the
rental, lease or sale of the main dwelling.




19.04.293 - Home day care/preschool.

     "Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of twelve or less
children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not yet in full day school within an
occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two caregivers if there are more than six children in
a home day care and may further limit the number of children allowed in a home day care.) A home day
care/preschool must meet the following standards:
     A.    When allowed as a permitted use there shall be a maximum of six children without any
          employees not residing in the dwelling. When allowed as a conditional use there shall be a
          maximum of twelve children with not more than one employee at any one time not residing in
          the dwelling;
     B.   The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;
     C.   The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight a.m.
          and nine p.m.;
     D.   The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the dwelling,
          and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the dwelling for any
          employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall be approved by the
          development services division director to insure that the parking is functional and does not
          change the residential character of the lot;
     E.   No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;
     F.   The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life Safety
          Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);




                                                                                                    Page 15
     G.    Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other countymetro township
          ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, the countymetro
          township shall review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a license revocation
          proceeding under Section 5.14.020; and
     H.    The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services division, all
          property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's property concerning the
          licensing of a home day care/preschool at such property.




19.04.300 - Hotel.

   "Hotel" means a building designed for or occupied by sixteen or more guests who are for
compensation lodged, with or without meals.




19.04.310 - Intensity.

      "Intensity" means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the number of people, cars,
visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising, etc.; also, the size of buildings or structures,
the most-intense being higher, longer and/or wider.




19.04.315 - Junk.

A.    "Junk" means any salvaged or scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, metal, rope, rags, batteries, paper,
     wood, trash, plastic, rubber, tires, waste or other articles or materials commonly designated as junk.
     Junk, except as provided in subsections (B) or (C), shall also mean any dismantled, wrecked or
     inoperable motor vehicles or recreational vehicles or parts thereof which are stored or parked on
     property outside of an enclosed building and which remain in such condition for a period of time in
     excess of sixty days. An automobile, truck or bus shall be considered inoperable if it is not currently
     registered and licensed in this state or another state.
B.    One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is not currently licensed and
     registered in this state or another state but is otherwise operable may be stored on property for a
     period not to exceed two years if it is secured with the windows closed, the trunk and hood closed
     and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal; or
C.   One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is inoperable may be stored in a
     side yard, except a side yard which faces on a street or a rear yard on property for a period not to
     exceed two years provided:
     1.   The automobile or truck is secured with the windows closed, the trunk and hood closed and the
          doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal; and
     2.   The automobile or truck shall not be visible from any public street; and
     3.   The automobile or truck is entirely concealed by a covering which is maintained in good
          condition and which does not extend closer to the ground than the lowest point of the vehicle
          body.
D.    All existing legal nonconforming motor vehicles as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in
     this section, or any amendment hereto, shall comply with the provisions of this section within one
     year from the date of the enactment of this section or any amendment thereto.



                                                                                                     Page 16
19.04.320 - Junkyard.

     "Junkyard" means the use of any lot, portion of a lot, or tract of land for the sale, storage, keeping,
disassembly or abandonment of junk or discarded or salvaged material, provided that this definition shall
be deemed not to include such uses which are clearly accessory and incidental to any agricultural use
permitted in the zone.




19.04.325 - Kennel.

     "Kennel" means the keeping of three or more dogs, at least four months old.




19.04.330 - Lodginghouse.

     "Lodginghouse" means a building where lodging only is provided for compensation of five or more,
but not exceeding fifteen persons.




19.04.335 - Lot.

      "Lot" means a parcel of land occupied by a building or group of buildings, together with such yards,
open spaces, lot width and lot areas as are required by this title, having frontage upon a street or upon a
right-of-way approved by a land use hearing officer, or upon a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide.
Except for group dwellings and guest houses, not more than one dwelling structure shall occupy one lot.




19.04.340 - Lot, corner.

      "Corner lot" means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where the interior angle
of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty-five degrees.




19.04.345 - Lot, interior.

     "Interior lot" means a lot other than a corner lot.




19.04.350 - Mobile home or manufactured home.

A.   "Mobile home" or "manufactured home" means a structure transportable in one or more sections,
     which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use as a dwelling with or without a
     permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.




                                                                                                    Page 17
B.   The requirements of this title shall not be construed to prevent the storage of a mobile home in the
     rear yard of a dwelling structure. A mobile home so stored may be temporarily used for sleeping
     purposes by members or guests of the family residing in the dwelling structure, but the mobile home
     shall not be connected to utilities or used for residential purposes unless approved by the planning
     commission as a temporary use incidental to construction work.
C.   Except as provided herein and in Section 19.76.290, a mobile home shall not be used for residential
     or sleeping purposes unless the mobile home is located in an approved mobile home park or an
     approved mobile home subdivision.




19.04.355 - Mobile home park.

     "Mobile home park" means any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes, occupied for
dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodation, pursuant to the mobile home park ordinance.




19.04.360 - Mobile store.

     "Mobile store" means a portable structure, including vehicles, without a permanent foundation, for
use on a temporary or seasonal basis, from which goods or merchandise are sold or where a service is
provided which is utilized on the premises. Approval for each mobile store shall not exceed one hundred
twenty days per calendar year at the same location or within two hundred fifty feet of a previously
approved location.




19.04.365 - Natural waterways.

    "Natural waterways" means those areas varying in width along streams, creeks, gullies, springs or
washes which are natural drainage channels, as determined by the building inspector, and in which areas
no building shall be constructed.




19.04.370 - Neighborhood storage.

     "Neighborhood storage" means a building not served by sewer, water or gas utilities and used
exclusively for storing personal property of an individual or family, retail business inventory items, and
business records and accounts.




19.04.375 - New construction.

     "New construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in Chapter 19.74 of this title, on floodplain hazard regulations.




                                                                                                  Page 18
19.04.380 - Noncomplying structure.

     "Noncomplying structure" means a building or other structure or portion thereof lawfully constructed
in compliance with the zoning ordinance existing at the time of construction, that no longer conforms to
the height, area and/or yard regulations in the zone in which it is located due to changes to the zoning
ordinance or to subsequent public acquisition of land for public improvements.




19.04.385 - Nonconforming use.

     "Nonconforming use" means a use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time the
ordinance codified in this title became effective and which does not conform with the use regulations of
the zone in which it is located.




19.04.390 - Nursing home.

     "Nursing home" means an establishment where persons are lodged and furnished with meals and
nursing care.




19.04.395 - Organic disposal site.

     "Organic disposal site" means a disposal site where settled or precipitated solid matter produced by
water and sewage treatment processes is disposed of in compliance with the board of health
requirements, using sanitary land-filling techniques, in a manner that does not create a nuisance or health
hazard, that protects the environment, and will not cause a pollution source of water, air, etc.




19.04.400 - Package agency.

     "Package agency" means a retail liquor location operated under a contractual agreement with the
state department of alcoholic beverage control, by a person other than the state, who is authorized by the
state of Utah alcoholic beverage control commission to sell package liquor for consumption off the
premises of the agency.




19.04.405 - Parking lot.

     "Parking lot" means an open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than four
automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for
clients or customers.




19.04.410 - Parking space.




                                                                                                  Page 19
    "Parking space" means space within a building, lot or parking lot for the parking or storage of one
automobile.




19.04.415 - Permitted use.

     "Permitted use" means a use of land for which no conditional use permit is required.




19.04.420 - Planned unit development.

    "Planned unit development" means a complete development plan for an area pursuant to Chapter
19.78 of this title.




19.04.421 - Planning commission.

     "Planning commission" means the Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township planning
commission, except in areas where a township exists, planning commission shall mean the township
planning commission.




19.04.425 - Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
in public schools.

     "Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in
public schools" means private training schools and other private schools which are instructional in nature,
including laboratory and shop instruction with the use of demonstration vehicles, products or models
incidental to such instruction, but not including the repair, maintenance or manufacture of vehicles, goods
or merchandise, not providing direct services other than instruction to the general public.




19.04.430 - Private nonprofit locker club.

     "Private nonprofit locker club" means a social club, recreational, athletic or kindred association
incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Nonprofit Corporation and Cooperation Act, which
maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor is or will be stored, consumed or sold.




19.04.435 - Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities.

       "Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities" means nonprofit recreational grounds and
facilities operated by an association incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Nonprofit Corporation
and Cooperation Act, or a corporated sole.




                                                                                                    Page 20
19.04.437 - Protected living arrangement.

     "Protected living arrangement" means provision for food, shelter, appropriate sleeping
accommodations, and supervision of activities of daily living for persons of any age who are unable to
independently maintain these basic needs and functions.




19.04.440 - Public use.

     "Public use" means a use operated exclusively by a public body, or quasi-public body, such use
having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general welfare, and including uses such as
public schools, parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities, administrative and service facilities,
and public utilities.




19.04.445 - Quasi-public use.

     "Quasi-public use" means a use operated by a private nonprofit educational, religious, recreational,
charitable or philanthropic institution, such use having the purpose primarily of serving the general public,
such as churches, private schools and universities, and similar uses.




19.04.447 - Rail transit mixed-use.

     "Rail transit mixed-use" means a use which allows rail-oriented development that combines different
land uses within a single development, tract of land, building, or structure. Its purpose is to encourage
development that is high quality, human scale, and pedestrian friendly, while creating a variety of
complementary and integrated uses, such as, but not limited to, residential, office, manufacturing, retail,
public, or entertainment, in a compact walkable urban form.




19.04.448 - Recreation, commercial.

    "Commercial recreation" means recreational facilities operated as a business and open to the
general public for a fee, such as golf driving ranges and baseball batting ranges.




19.04.449 - Reiki business.

     "Reiki business" means a business devoted primarily to Reiki healing, or any other system that has
elements of the following. The practitioner, trained to access and serve as a channel for a sacred life
force, places his or her hands on or just above the client's body in order to activate healing energy within
receptive points on the body. The practitioner's hands move progressively with a passive touch through
various positions on the body, remaining in each position for a period of time. As a harmonic flow of
energy is strengthened, within the client and practitioner, healing occurs through the return of physical,
mental and spiritual balance. For purposes of this title, a Reiki business shall not include Reiki healing, or
similar system, which arc performed in a hospital or medical clinic.




                                                                                                     Page 21
19.04.451 - Residential facility for elderly persons.

A.   "Residential facility for elderly persons" means a single-family or multiple-family dwelling unit that is
     occupied twenty-four hours a day in a family-type arrangement by eight or fewer elderly persons
     sixty years old or older capable of living independently.
B.   Such facility shall be owned by one of the residents or by an immediate family member of one of the
     residents or the title has been placed in trust for a resident.
C.   Placement in such facility is on a voluntary basis and may not be a part of, or in lieu of, confinement,
     rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional institution.
D.   No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse may be placed in such a facility.
E.   The structure shall be capable of use without the residential character being changed by exterior
     structural or landscaping alterations.
F.   Each facility shall not be located within three-quarters mile of another residential facility for elderly
     persons or residential facility for handicapped persons.
G.    This use is nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than a
     residential facility for elderly persons or if the structure fails to comply with applicable health, safety,
     and building codes.




19.04.452 - Residential facility for persons with a disability.

     "Residential facility for persons with a disability" means a residence:
     A.   In which more than one person with a disability resides; and
     B.    Is (1) licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under Title 62A, Chapter 2,
          Licensure of Programs and Facilities, Utah Code, Unannotated; or (2) licensed or certified by
          the Department of Health under Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care Facility Licensing and
          Inspection Act, Utah Code, Unannotated.




19.04.455 - Resort hotel.

     "Resort hotel" means a building or group of buildings, other than a motel, boardinghouse or lodging
house, containing individual guestrooms, suites of guestrooms, dwelling units, and which furnishes
services customarily provided by hotels.




19.04.457 - Resource recycling collection point.

     "Resource recycling collection point" means a portable structure, enclosed bin, trailer, or reverse
vending machine where recyclable material (aluminum cans, glass, paper, etc.) is exchanged for money
or deposited as a donation. Approval is not to exceed twelve months without reapproval.




                                                                                                        Page 22
19.04.460 - Restaurant.

     "Restaurant" means a place of business where a variety of hot food is prepared and cooked and
complete meals are served to the general public for consumption on the premises primarily in indoor
dining accommodations.




19.04.462 - Restaurant liquor license.

     "Restaurant liquor license" means a public restaurant authorized by the state alcoholic beverage
control commission as a liquor outlet allowing the storage, sale and consumption of liquor and alcohol on
the premises.




19.04.465 - Sanitary landfill.

     "Sanitary landfill" means a land disposal site where solid waste is disposed of using sanitary
landfilling techniques, including but not limited to an engineered method of disposing of solid waste on
land in a manner that does not create a nuisance or health hazard and that protects the environment, by
spreading the waste in thin layers, compacting it to the smallest practical volume, confining it to the
smallest practical area, and covering it with soil by the end of each working day or as often as may be
directed by the board of health.




19.04.470 - School.

     "School" means an institution recognized as satisfying the requirements of public education and
having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. Home occupations
represented as schools shall not apply (dance, music, crafts, child nurseries, etc.).




19.04.475 - Shopping center.

    "Shopping center" means a group of architecturally unified commercial establishments built on a site
which is planned, developed, owned and managed as an operating unit.




19.04.480 - Sportsman's kennel.

     "Sportsman's kennel" means a kennel for the keeping of three to five dogs which has a valid permit
from the department of animal services and is located on a lot of at least one acre.




19.04.485 - Stable, private.

    "Private stable" means a detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned by the
occupants of the premises, and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.


                                                                                                 Page 23
19.04.490 - Stable, public.

     "Public stable" means a stable other than a private stable.




19.04.495 - Start of construction.

      "Start of construction" includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or other improvement
was within one hundred eighty days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement
of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. "Permanent construction" does not include land preparation, such
as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not
occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure.




19.04.500 - State store.

     "State store" means a facility for the sale of package liquor located on the premises owned or leased
by the state and operated by state employees. This term shall not apply to restaurants, private clubs or
package agencies.




19.04.505 - Story.

      "Story" means that portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and the
upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall be that portion of a building
included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor
level directly above a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet above grade for more than
fifty percent of the total perimeter or is more than twelve feet above grade at any point, such usable or
unused underfloor space shall be considered as a story.




19.04.507 - Story, first.

     "First story" means the lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, except that a floor level in
a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not
more than four feet below grade for more than fifty percent of the total perimeter, or not more than eight
feet below grade at any point.




19.04.510 - Story, half.




                                                                                                       Page 24
     "Half story" means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in a sloping roof, the floor
area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor immediately below it.




19.04.515 - Street.

     "Street" means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and accepted
by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less than twenty-five feet wide, which has been made
public by right of use and which affords the principal means of access to abutting property.




19.04.520 - Structure.

     "Structure" means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground, or
attached to something having a location on the ground.




19.04.525 - Structural alterations.

     "Structural alterations" means any change in supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.




19.04.530 - Studios.

     "Studios" means a facility used for the instruction of specialized talents or skills.




19.04.535 - Substantial improvement.

A.   "Substantial improvement" means any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
     of which equals or exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:
     1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
     2.   If the structure is damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
B.    For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
     alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not
     that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
C.   The term does not, however, include either:
     1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, sanitary
          or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
     2.    Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State
          Inventory of Historic Places.




                                                                                                     Page 25
19.04.540 - Tanning studio.

      "Tanning studio" means any business which uses artificial lighting systems to produce a tan on an
individual's body. This use specifically excludes spas, gymnasiums, athletic clubs, health clubs, and any
exercise equipment.




19.04.545 - Tourist court.

     "Tourist court" means any building or group of buildings containing sleeping rooms, with or without
fixed cooking facilities, designed for temporary use by automobile tourists or transients, with garage
attached or parking space conveniently located at each unit, including auto courts, motels or motor
lodges.




19.04.547 - Short-term rental.

A.    "Short-term rental" means any dwelling or portion thereof that is available for use or is used for
     accommodations or lodging of guests, paying a fee or other compensation for a period of less than
     thirty consecutive days.
B.   A short-term rental shall not contain more than four bedrooms.
C.   A short-term rental shall be maintained to the following minimum standards:
     1.    Structures shall be properly maintained, painted and kept in good repair, and grounds and
          landscaped areas shall be properly maintained and watered in order that the use in no way
          detracts from the general appearance of the neighborhood; and
     2.   Required parking areas and access to parking areas shall be maintained and available for use
          at all times. Parking for this use shall be contained on the site, and shall not be allowed on the
          public rights-of-way; and
     3.    Snow shall be removed from sidewalks and driveways within one hour after the snow has
          ceased falling, provided that in case of a storm between the hours of five p.m. in the afternoon
          and six a.m. in the morning, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before eight a.m. the morning
          following the storm.
D.    Occupants of a short-term rental shall not create excessive noise that is incompatible with adjacent
     land uses.
E.   A short-term rental use shall not have any signs on the premises that advertise the use.
F.   The use of a dwelling as a short-term rental shall not change the appearance of the dwelling or
     property for residential purposes.
G.   Outdoor pools, hot tubs or spas shall not be used between the hours of ten p.m. and eight a.m.




19.04.550 - Use, accessory.

    "Accessory use" means a subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon the same lot
occupied by a main use.




                                                                                                   Page 26
19.04.551 - Vehicle, commercial.

     "Commercial vehicle" means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or intended for business use -
including but not limited to the transportation of commercial equipment, merchandise, produce, freight,
commodities, passengers, or animals - and which is characterized by any of the following:
     A.   Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and the like,
          which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting; vehicles used to
          haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks, semi-tractors, semi-trailers,
          cement trucks, or other similar vehicle.
     B.   Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed, a dumping
          mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading materials/equipment, aerial
          buckets or platforms, or other similar feature.
     C.   Vehicles with more than two axles.
     D.   Vehicles that exceed eight feet in height.




19.04.553 - Vehicle, private.

    "Private vehicle" means an automobile, sport utility, crossover, pickup truck, motorcycle, or similar
motorized device in which a person or thing is, or can be, transported from one place to another, except
commercial or recreational vehicles as defined in this chapter.




19.04.554 - Vehicle, recreational.

     "Recreational vehicle" means a vehicle, snowmobile, trailer, camper, or watercraft with or without a
motor, designed and constructed for recreational use or as temporary living quarters for travel or vacation
purposes. "Recreational vehicle" does not include human or battery powered personal apparatuses, such
as bicycles, kick-scooters, or children's toys.




19.04.555 - Width of lot.

      "Width of lot" means the distance between the side lot lines and the distance back from the front lot
line required for the depth of the front yard.




19.04.560 - Yard.

    "Yard" means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward by buildings or structures, except as follows:
     A.   Fences;
     B.   Canopies allowed under subsection B of Section 19.80.120;
     C.   Accessory buildings in a rear yard;




                                                                                                  Page 27
     D.    The ordinary projections of windows where the projection is at least eighteen inches above floor
          level, roofs, cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features which project into a yard
          not more than three feet;
     E.   Open or lattice-enclosed exterior stairways, located in a commercial or manufacturing zone,
          projecting into a yard not more than five feet;
     F.   Structures less than eighteen inches in height from the finished ground surface.




19.04.565 - Yard, front.

     "Front yard" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of the building and
the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the front yard is the
minimum distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building.




19.04.570 - Yard, rear.

     "Rear yard" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of the building and
the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the rear yard is the minimum
distance between the rear lot line and the rear line of the building.




19.04.575 - Yard, side.

     "Side yard" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of the building and
the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width" of the side yard shall be
the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side line of the building.




Chapter 19.05 - PLANNING COMMISSION




19.05.005 - Planning commission jurisdiction.

     The countymetro township-wide planning commission has jurisdiction over all unincorporated areas
of the countymetro township except for those areas within established townships, which are administered
pursuant to the provisions of Section 19.05.060, and the area within the Mountainous Planning District,
which is administered pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 19.07.




19.05.010 - Appointment—Term.

    The planning commission for the unincorporated areas of Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro
Township shall consist of five members and up to two alternate members appointed by the mayorcouncil



                                                                                                   Page 28
chair with the advice and consent of the countymetro township council. Members shall serve three-year
terms or longer until successors are appointed. Terms shall commence on March 1st of each year. In the
event a term of a member shall expire before a successor is appointed, the member shall continue to
serve until a successor is appointed. Terms of at least one member, and not more than two, shall expire
each year. The members and alternate members of the planning commission shall be registered voters
residing in any unincorporated or incorporated area of the countymetro township with the provision that at
least three of the regular members of the planning commission be residents of unincorporated Salt
LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township.




19.05.020 - Vacancy—Removal.

     Any vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or
disqualification shall be filled by the mayorcouncil chair with the advice and consent of the council for the
unexpired term of such member. The mayorcouncil chair with the advice and consent of the countymetro
township council may remove a member of the planning commission for cause after filing written charges
against the member. The member shall be provided with a hearing on the charges if requested.




19.05.030 - Organization—Procedures.

     The planning commission shall elect a chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-year
term. The planning commission may create and fill any other necessary offices it deems necessary and
may adopt policies and procedures for the conduct of its meetings, the processing of applications, and for
any other purpose the planning commission considers necessary for its proper function.




19.05.040 - Powers and duties.

     The planning commission shall:
     A.    Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan to the
          countymetro township council;
     B.   Recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning ordinances and maps to
          the countymetro township council;
     C.    Recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the countymetro
          township council;
     D.   Recommend approval or denial of subdivision applications to the countymetro township council;
     E.   Approve or deny conditional use permits;
     F.   Advise the countymetro township council on matters that the council directs;
     G.   Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the countymetro township
          council.




19.05.050 - Effect on present members.




                                                                                                    Page 29
      Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect the eligibility or qualifications to serve of any of
the present members of the planning commission whose terms have not expired or to affect their eligibility
for reappointment.




19.05.060 - Township planning commission.

      Pursuant to the provisions and requirements of Utah Code, Section 17-27a10-9a-301, et seq., and
county ordinance, Section 2.74.010, et seq., townships shall be deemed established upon compliance
with the Act and ordinance and upon appointment or election of township planning commission members.
In addition to the seven elected and appointed township planning commission members, the mayor, with
the advice and consent of the county council, may appoint up to two alternate members of a township
planning commission. Alternate members must meet the qualifications for regular planning commission
members. The county planning commission shall cease to exercise jurisdiction over all newly filed
planning and zoning matters within areas establishing townships on the day when election results are
canvassed indicating the township proposal passes. The township planning commissions shall have
jurisdiction regarding all pending and future planning and zoning matters and proceedings within the
township area upon election and appointment of the full commission. The following rules and procedures
regarding township planning commissions are established:
     A.   After a township is created, the duly elected and appointed township planning commission shall
          act as the planning commission within the township boundaries and shall:
          1.   Prepare and recommend amendments to the general plan, as it pertains to the township, to
               the county council;
          2.   Recommend to the county council amendments to existing zoning ordinances and maps
               affecting areas within the township;
          3.   Administer provisions of the zoning ordinance where specifically provided for in the zoning
               ordinance adopted by the county council;
          4.   Recommend to the county council amendments to existing subdivision regulations affecting
               areas within the township;
          5.   Recommend to the county mayor approval or denial of subdivision applications located
               within the township;
          6.   Approve or deny conditional use permits within the township;
          7.   Advise the county council on matters that the county council directs;
          8.   Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the county council.
     B.   The county council shall adopt such policies and procedures as it deems necessary to provide
          for:
          1.   The location, scheduling, and conduct of township planning commission meetings;
          2.   The processing of applications;
          3.   The provision of planning support staff;
          4.   The funding of necessary and reasonable expenses of township planning commissions;
               and
          5.   For any other purposes considered necessary for the functioning of township planning
               commissions.
     C.   The township board shall elect a chair and vice chair from among its members to sit for one
          year terms and may, by majority vote, adopt rules regarding its activities, which rules may not
          be in conflict with the Act or this chapter.


                                                                                                      Page 30
    D.    Unless otherwise provided by law, any vacancy occurring on a township planning commission
         by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled by the mayor with the
         advice and consent of the county council for the unexpired term of such member. Vacancies for
         elected board members shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member replaced except
         that if over two years remain in the unexpired term, the replacement shall stand for re-election in
         the next even-numbered year. The mayor with the advice and consent of the county council
         may remove for cause a member of a township planning commission which the council has
         appointed upon the filing of written charges against the member and after a hearing on the
         charges if requested by the member.




Chapter 19.06 - ZONES, MAPS, AND ZONE BOUNDARIES




19.06.010 - Zones established.

     For the purpose of this title, the countymetro township to which this title applies is divided into
classes of zones, as follows:

Forestry zone                                                         F-1

Forestry multifamily zone                                             FM-10           Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry multifamily zone                                             FM-20           Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-0.5          Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-1            Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-2.5          Eff. 10/21/87

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-5            Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-10           Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-20           Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-50           Eff. 8/19/75

Forestry and recreation zone                                          FR-100          Eff. 8/19/75

Residential zone                                                      R-1-3




                                                                                                     Page 31
Residential zone    R-1-4     Eff. 8/19/82

Residential zone    R-1-5     Eff. 8/19/82

Residential zone    R-1-6

Residential zone    R-1-7     Eff. 1/28/77

Residential zone    R-1-8

Residential zone    R-1-10

Residential zone    R-1-15    Eff. 2/1/80

Residential zone    R-1-21

Residential zone    R-1-43

Residential zone    R-2-6.5

Residential zone    R-2-8

Residential zone    R-2-10

Residential zone    R-2-10C

Residential zone    R-4-8.5

Residential zone    S-1-G

Residential zone    R-M

Residential zone    RMH       Eff. 5/15/80

Agricultural zone   A-1

Agricultural zone   A-2

Agricultural zone   A-5       Eff. 2/19/71

Agricultural zone   A-10      Eff. 2/19/71




                                             Page 32
Agricultural zone                                                 A-20          Eff. 2/19/71

Foothill agricultural zone                                        FA-2.5        Eff. 7/15/82

Foothill agricultural zone                                        FA-5          Eff. 7/15/82

Foothill agricultural zone                                        FA-10         Eff. 7/15/82

Foothill agricultural zone                                        FA-20         Eff. 7/15/82

Mixed development zone                                            MD-1          Eff. 6/7/90

Mixed development zone                                            MD-3          Eff. 6/7/90

Office research park and development zone                         O-R-D

Commercial zone                                                   C-1

Commercial zone                                                   C-V

Commercial zone                                                   C-2

Commercial zone                                                   C-3

Manufacturing zone                                                M-1

Manufacturing zone                                                M-2

Airport overlay zone                                              AOZ

Foothills and canyons overlay zone                                FCOZ

Residential compatibility overlay zone                            RCOZ




19.06.020 - Zoning maps.

    Each of the sections of the countymetro township which are amended or zoned by this title are
shown on the maps on file with the planning commission, and such maps are made by this reference, as
such, a part of this title as if fully described and detailed herein.




                                                                                               Page 33
19.06.030 - Filing of this title and zoning maps.

     This title and the maps shall be filed in the custody of the county clerk, and may be examined by the
public subject to any reasonable regulations established by the county clerk.




19.06.040 - Boundary location rules.

     Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules shall apply:
     A.    Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of a
          street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated on the
          map, the centerline of the street, alley or block, or such property line, shall be construed to be
          the boundary of the zone;
     B.   Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being approximately at the line of
          any river, irrigation canal or other waterway or railroad right-of-way, or public park, or other
          public land, or any section line, then in such case the center of the stream, canal or waterway,
          or of the railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or such section line shall
          be deemed to be the boundary of the zone;
     C.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone boundary location, the land
          use hearing officer shall interpret the map.




Chapter 19.07 - MOUNTAINOUS PLANNING DISTRICT AND PLANNING COMMISSION



19.07.010 - Mountainous planning district area designated.

A.    Mountainous planning district map. The area of the mountainous planning district is hereby
     designated according to the mountainous planning district map that is on file with the county clerk,
     and such map is made by this reference a part of this title as if fully described and detailed herein.
     The map of the mountainous planning district may be examined by the public subject to any
     reasonable regulations established by the county clerk. All of the area within the mountainous
     planning district map meets the following criteria:
     1.   The area is primarily used for recreational purposes, including canyons, foothills, ski resorts,
          wilderness areas, lakes and reservoirs, campgrounds, or picnic areas within the Wasatch
          Range;
     2.   The area is used by residents of the county who live inside and outside the limits of a
          municipality;
     3.   The total resident population in the mountainous planning district area is equal to or less than
          five percent of the population of the county; and
     4.   The area was within the unincorporated area of the county before May 12, 2015; and
     5.   The area includes land designated as part of a national forest on or before May 9, 2017.
B.   Boundary location rules. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of the mountainous planning
     district, the following rules shall apply:



                                                                                                     Page 34
     1.   Wherever the boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of a street, alley
          or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the
          centerline of the street, alley or block, or such property line shall be construed to be the
          boundary of the mountainous planning district.
     2.    Whenever such boundary line of the mountainous planning district is indicated as being
          approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal, or other waterway or railroad right-of-way,
          or public park, or other public land, or any section line, then in such cases the center of the
          stream, canal or waterway, or of the railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public
          land or such section line shall be deemed to be the boundary of the mountainous planning
          district.
     3.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the mountainous planning district
          boundary location, the land use hearing officer shall interpret the map.




19.07.020 - Mountainous planning district planning commission.

A.   Creation.
     1.   There is hereby created a mountainous planning district, consisting of the area described in
          Section 19.07.010 of this chapter.
     2.   There is hereby established a mountainous planning district planning commission ("planning
          commission").
B.   Powers and Duties. The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
     1.   Make and recommend to the county council a general plan and amendments to the general plan
          for the mountainous planning district;
     2.   Prepare and recommend to the county council land use ordinances and a zoning map and
          amendments thereto for the mountainous planning district;
     3.    Consider and recommend to the county council a subdivision ordinance and amendments
          thereto for areas within the mountainous planning district;
     4.    Recommend proposed application processes and the appropriate delegation of power to at
          least one land use authority and at least one appeal authority as provided in Section 17-27a10-
          9a-302 of the Utah Code.
     5.   Act as the land use authority as provided in Section 19.07.030;
     6.   Advise the county council on matters that the county council directs;
     7.   Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the county council.
C.   Membership, Appointment, Terms, Removal, and Vacancies:
     1.   The planning commission shall initially be composed of nine members appointed by the mayor
          with the advice and consent of the county council. After June 30, 2017, the nine members of the
          planning commission shall be appointed as follows:
          a.     Five of the nine members of the planning commission, filling positions on the planning
                 commission identified as MPD planning commission seats 1 through 5, shall be appointed
                 by the mayor with the advice and consent of the county council.
          b.     Four of the nine members of the planning commission, filling positions on the planning
                 commission identified as MPD planning commission seats A through D, shall be appointed
                 as provided in Subsection (C)(2) below.




                                                                                                       Page 35
2.   When there is a vacancy in one of the four planning commission seats designated in Subsection
     (C)(1)(b) of this section:
     a.   The mayor shall send a written request to the city associated in Subsection (C)(3) of this
          section with the vacant planning commission seat to provide a list of three individuals who
          satisfy the requirements of Section 17-27a10-9a-301(1)(c)(iii) to fill the vacancy.
     b.   The notified city shall respond to the written request within sixty days after the day on
          which the city receives the written request.
     c.   After the mayor receives the notified city's list of three individuals, the mayor shall select
          one individual from the list to be appointed with the advice and consent of the county
          council to fill the vacancy.
     d.   If the notified city fails to timely respond to the written request, the mayor may proceed to
          appoint any individual to fill the vacancy as provided in Subsection (C)(1)(a) of this section.
3.   The following cities meet the requirements of Section 17-27a10-9a-301(7)(b) and are hereby
     designated to be notified of any vacancy occurring in the planning commission seats identified
     in Subsection (C)(1)(b) above as follows:
     a.   Salt Lake City - MPD planning commission seat A.
     b.   Millcreek - MPD planning commission seat B.
     c.   Cottonwood Heights - MPD planning commission seat C.
     d.   Sandy City - MPD planning commission seat D.
4.    The mayor, with the advice and consent of the county council may also appoint up to two
     alternate members of the planning commission, filling positions on the planning commission
     identified as MPD alternate 1 and MPD alternate 2. Alternate members must meet the
     qualifications as the other planning commission members.
5.   All members of the planning commission shall serve a term of three years, except that in the
     case of the first planning commission appointed under the provisions of this section, three
     members shall be appointed for an initial term of one year, three members shall be appointed
     for an initial term of two years, and the remaining three members shall be appointed to serve a
     full three-year term. Any alternate members of the planning commission shall be appointed to
     serve a term of four years. In the event a term of a member shall expire without a successor
     having been appointed, the member shall continue to serve until a successor has been
     appointed and the term of the successor shall terminate on the same day as though the
     successor was appointed in a timely manner. Any vacancy created during the term of a member
     shall be filled for only the remainder of the unexpired portion of that term. No member shall
     serve more than two consecutive full terms.
6.   The planning commission shall elect a chair and vice chair from among its members to sit for
     one year terms and may, by majority vote, adopt rules regarding its activities, which rules may
     not be in conflict with the Land Use, Management and Development Act, Utah Code Ann. §17-
     27a10-9a-101 et. seq., or this chapter. The chair shall be considered for purposes of
     establishing a quorum and shall act as a voting member.
7.   Except as provided in Subsection (C)(2) of this section, any vacancy occurring on the planning
     commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled by the
     mayor with the advice and consent of the county council for the unexpired term of such
     member.
8.   The mayor with advice and consent of the county council may remove for cause any member of
     the planning commission upon the filing of written charges against the member and after a
     public hearing on the charges conducted by a hearing officer appointed by the mayor if
     requested by the member.




                                                                                                Page 36
     9.   Quorum: No meeting of the planning commission shall be official or of any effect except when a
          quorum of the members are present. Five members of the planning commission shall constitute
          a quorum. All actions shall require the concurring vote of a majority of the members present,
          unless stricter voting procedures are established by the planning commission.
D.   Qualifications for Membership:
     1.    Planning commission members must be registered voters who reside either in the
          unincorporated or incorporated areas of Salt Lake County.
     2.   At least one planning commission member shall reside within the mountainous planning district
          and another planning commission member shall either reside or own property within the
          mountainous planning district.
     3.    Planning commission members shall represent areas located in the unincorporated and
          incorporated county. In appointing planning commission members, the mayor and county
          council shall endeavor to provide as much geographically balanced representation as is
          practicable.
E.    Jurisdiction: The planning commission shall have jurisdiction regarding all pending and future
     planning and zoning matters and proceedings within the mountainous planning district area,
     including areas of the mountainous planning district that are also located within a municipality or are
     unincorporated.
F.   Meetings:
     1.   The planning commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
     2.   The planning commission must comply with Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
G.   Reporting: The planning commission shall submit a report that summarizes actions it has taken and
     any recommendations regarding the mountainous planning district to the Utah State Legislature's
     Natural Resources, Agriculture, and Environment Interim Committee by no later than November 30
     of each year as required by Section 17-27a10-9a-901(3) of the Utah Code, as amended.




19.07.030 - Land use authority.

A.    Land use authority designation. Except as otherwise provided herein, the planning commission is
     designated as the land use authority pursuant to state law as provided in this title and is authorized
     to act to the same extent as any other planning commission under this Code, including for the
     following land use applications:
     1.   Mobile home parks as provided in Title 15, Chapter 24;
     2.   Subdivisions as provided in Title 18, Chapter 08;
     3.   Preliminary plats as provided in Title 18, Chapter 12;
     4.   Planned unit developments as provided in Title 19, Chapter 78;
     5.   Conditional use permits as provided in Title 19, Chapter 84;
     6.   Modifications to designated county historical sites as set forth in Title 19, Chapter 86;
     7.   Nonconforming uses and special exceptions as set forth in Title 19, Chapter 88.




Chapter 19.08 - F-1 FORESTRY ZONE




                                                                                                      Page 37
19.08.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the F-1 zone is to permit limited residential development as well as utilization and
preservation of the natural environment and resources of the canyon areas in Salt Lake County.




19.08.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the F-1 zone include:
         — Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the below;
         — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
         — Single-family dwelling.




19.08.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the F-1 zone include:
         — Agriculture; the keeping of animals and fowl for family food production; grazing and pasturing
    of animals;
         — Airport;
         — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
         — Day care/preschool center (subject to Section 19.76.260);
         — Dude ranch;
          — Farm devoted to raising (including slaughtering, dressing and marketing as incident to
    raising) beaver and nutria;
         — Forest industry; production of forest products;
         — Golf course;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Hydroelectric dam;
         — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private park and recreational grounds; private recreational camp or resort;
         — Public and quasi-public use;
         — Radio and/or television tower;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
        — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not



                                                                                                 Page 38
     removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the building
     will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;
          — Underground record storage vaults;
          — Water pumping plant and reservoir.




19.08.040 - Lot area.

      The minimum area for any dwelling in the F-1 zone shall be not less than twenty thousand square
feet. The minimum lot area for any conditional use shall be determined by the planning commission. In no
case shall the minimum area for a conditional use be less than one acre.




19.08.050 - Lot width.

     The minimum width for any dwelling lot in the F-1 zone shall be seventy-five feet.




19.08.060 - Front yard.

      In the F-1 zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings and for private garages which
have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be fifteen feet for lots facing on a state highway and five feet
for lots facing on a county road. All accessory buildings other than private garages which have a minimum
side yard shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.




19.08.070 - Side yard.

     In the F-1 zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and the total width of the
two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings shall have a minimum
side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two side yards shall be not less than forty feet. The
minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private garages and other
accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from the main building may have a
minimum side yard of one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory building shall be
located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on
a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be not less than fifteen feet on state highways or
eight feet on other streets.




19.08.080 - Rear yard.

    In the F-1 zone, the minimum rear yard for a main building shall be twenty-five feet, and for
accessory buildings one foot, provided that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot,
accessory buildings shall be located not closer than eight feet to such side yard.




                                                                                                    Page 39
19.08.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
     following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent or
          the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
          drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
          box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The box shall extend for a
          distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of
          the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
          with a maximum contour interval of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
B.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




Chapter 19.10 - FM-10 AND FM-20 FORESTRY MULTIFAMILY ZONES



19.10.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the forestry multifamily zones is to permit development of certain areas in the foothill
and canyon areas of the county for high-density residential, limited commercial, and other specified uses
to the extent that such development is compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic resources
of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations.




19.10.020 - Permitted uses.

     The following uses are permitted in the FM-10 and FM-20 zones subject to compliance with all
applicable requirements set forth in this chapter including those relating to site and lot dimensions,
development standards, and other regulations:
     A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted use;
     B.   Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020;
     C.   Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in Section
          19.04.293;
     D.   Class B beer outlet;
     E.   Minor ski resort improvements, provided:
          1.   That the privately-owned land areas on which such improvements are permitted constitute
               less than ten percent of the total land area utilized for the ski resort that the improvements
               support, and
          2.   That at least ninety percent of the land area on which the improvements are developed,
               operated, and maintained is on public lands, and
          3.   That the public agency responsible for the management and administration of such lands
               has approved a special use permit or similar regulatory authorization, and has assumed
               long-term administrative and enforcement responsibilities for such approvals, and



                                                                                                    Page 40
          4.   That opportunities for public notice, review, and comment on the proposed improvements
               have been provided through a finalized National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) or other
               comprehensive public review and comment process, and
          5.   That such improvements are either;
               a.    Essential to public safety, or
               b.    Required in association with the reasonable repair or maintenance of existing legally-
                     established facilities and improvements, or
               c.    Essential to the continuation or extension of improvements expressly approved under
                     the terms of a governmental land lease or use permit or by final action of the federal
                     or state governmental agency with jurisdiction over the lands on which the
                     improvements are located;
     F.   Residential facility for elderly persons;
     G.    Residential facility for persons with a disability;
     H.    Restaurant liquor license;
     I.   Single-family dwellings;
     J.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, provided:
          1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility, and
          2.   The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and
          3.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of
               the required site plan, and
          4.   All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications
               Facilities," are satisfied.




19.10.030 - Conditional uses.

     The following conditional uses are subject to the requirements of this chapter, all general and
specific conditions, criteria, and approval procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84, "Conditional Uses," and,
for properties situated within the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the procedures and provisions of
Chapter 19.72, "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone" and Chapter 19.73, "Foothills and Canyons Site
Development and Design Standards."
       The development services director may review and approve conditional use permits for ski resort
facilities and improvements which satisfy the criteria set forth in subparts (E)(1) through (E)(4) of Section
19.10.020 of this chapter. In granting such approval within a foothills and canyon overlay zone, the
development services director may waive and/or modify the regulations of Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of
this title in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060, "Administration and
enforcement."
     Ski resort facilities and improvements which do not satisfy the criteria of Section 19.10.020, subparts
(E)(1) through (E)(4) of this chapter, as well as those which are referred to the planning commission by
the development services director in accordance with Section 19.84.080 provisions of this title, shall be
subject to review and approval by the planning commission. In its consideration of ski resort and public
use development proposals in areas situated within the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the planning
commission may waive and/or modify the regulations of Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of this title in
accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060, "Administration and
enforcement."
     A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use;


                                                                                                    Page 41
B.   Apartments, boardinghouse; lodging house, hotel; motel; resort hotel;
C.   Bed and breakfast homestay, provided that:
     1.    The access to the site and the on-site parking are available for use and maintained,
          including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
     2.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that is
          capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the health
          department prior to issuance of a license;
D.   Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference rooms;
E.   Class C beer outlet;
F.   Commercial and private recreation;
G.   Day care/preschool center subject to the conditions set forth in Section 19.76.260;
H.   Dwelling group, provided:
     1.   The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group, as defined in Section 19.04.190, is to be
          erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum lot areas otherwise
          required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures in the group,
     2.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking spaces
          and vehicular maneuvering areas shall meet county standards,
     3.   The development or site plan shall provide a landscaped buffer area along the perimeter
          property lines and decorative adjacent to the buildings in appropriate locations,
          landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title, and
     4.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that is
          capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the health
          department;
I.   Home day care/preschool with no less than seven and no more than twelve children, subject to
     the conditions set forth in Section 19.04.293;
J.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any main use;
K.   Office incidental to main use;
L.   Package agency;
M.    Planned unit development subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in Chapter
     19.78, "Planned unit development";
N.   Private nonprofit locker club;
O.   Public and quasi-public uses;
P.   Restaurant, boutique, gift shop, and other limited commercial uses determined by the planning
     commission to be of the same character as these listed and serving the needs of the visitors
     and residents of the canyons;
Q.   Short term rentals, provided that:
     1.    The on-site parking and the access to the site are available for use and maintained,
          including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
     2.   The dwelling unit is served by an approved drinking water supply and public sewer system
          that are capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and are approved by the
          health department prior to issuance of a license;
R.   Ski resorts;




                                                                                             Page 42
     S.   State store;
     T.   Temporary structures;
     U.   Two-family dwelling; three-family dwelling; four-family dwelling; multiple-family dwelling;
     V.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, as that term and all related terms are defined in Section
          19.83.020, provided:
          1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is either a wall-mounted, roof-mounted, or
               monopole facility. Facilities located on lattice towers are prohibited, and
          2.   Any grading for the facility, including access roads and trenching for utilities, shall comply
               with the Uniform Building Code, and
          3.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in the foothills and
               canyons overlay zone, Chapter 19.72, including development standards for grading,
               wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, natural hazards, and utilities, and
               standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
          4.   Site placement and facility color shall be carefully considered to blend in with the natural
               surroundings, and
          5.   Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for monopole facilities,
               and
          6.   The maximum height for monopole facilities shall be sixty feet, and
          7.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of
               the required site plan and shall show all structures including but not limited to monopoles,
               antennas, and equipment buildings, and
          8.   All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications
               Facilities," are satisfied.




19.10.040 - Lot area, lot width and slope.

A.   Minimum lot area: One-half acre;
B.   Minimum lot width: One hundred feet;
C.   Lots Fronting on Cul-de-Sacs—Lot Width. The minimum lot width of any lot fronting on a cul-de-sac,
     partial cul-de-sac, or oblique angle-curved street from which the lot lines radiate shall be measured
     at a distance of fifty feet from the front lot line;
D.    Slope Requirements. All development in the FM zones shall be subject to the slope protection
     standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030B, "Slope Protection
     Standards" and Section 19.72.030D, "Streets and Roads."




19.10.050 - Limits of disturbance/setbacks.

     Because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of the foothill and canyon
areas, limits of disturbance and setbacks for permitted uses including single-family dwellings and
accessory structures in the FM zones shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the development
services director. Limits of disturbance and setbacks for conditional uses shall be as finally approved by
the planning commission upon the recommendation of the development services director (see Chapter




                                                                                                        Page 43
19.72). All determinations of limits of disturbance shall be subject to the conditions and criteria set forth in
the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.040, "Establishment of limits of disturbance."




19.10.060 - Building height.

A.    Conditional Uses—Case-by-Case Determination. Because of the unique nature of the topography,
      vegetation, soils, climatic and aesthetic characteristics of the foothills and canyons, the allowable
      height of conditional use structures in the FM-10 and FM-20 zones shall be determined on a case-
      by-case basis by the planning commission, subject to consideration of the following criteria:
      1.    Protection of the natural setting;
      2.    Relationship to other structures and open spaces;
      3.    Contour intervals and topographic features;
      4.     To the maximum extent feasible, the building height should not exceed the height of
            surrounding trees and vegetation;
      5.    Protection of scenic vistas, especially views from public rights-of-way and public lands; and
      6.    Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the provisions of Section 19.10.010 are met.
B.     Multifamily Residential Conditional Uses—Maximum Height. Notwithstanding the case-by-case
      determination permitted by this section, the maximum height of a residential conditional use in the
      FM zones shall not exceed one hundred feet.
C.     Single-Family Dwellings. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, single-family
      dwellings shall not exceed the following heights:
      1.    Thirty feet on property where the original slope exceeds fifteen percent or the property is located
            in the foothills and canyons overlay zone. For purposes of this section, slope shall be
            determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation
            on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the single-family dwelling. The
            box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around
            the foundation line of the single-family dwelling. The elevation shall be determined using a
            certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval of two feet;
      2.    Thirty-five feet for single-family dwellings on all other properties;
      3.    No single-family dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.10.070 - Density of development.

A.    Residential Uses Other Than Single-Family. Maximum density for residential dwelling units, except
      single-family dwellings, shall be as follows:

     Zone                                              Maximum Density

  FM-10                         10 dwelling units or 20 guestrooms per net developable acre

  FM-20                         20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable acre.




                                                                                                       Page 44
B.    Net Developable Acreage Defined. For purposes of this section, "net developable acreage" is
     defined as land with all of the following:
     1.   Average slope less than thirty percent;
     2.   Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and percolation tests in accordance
          with the regulations of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality in order to ensure against
          adverse impacts on surface water and groundwater quality;
     3.   Minimum distance from any stream corridor of one hundred feet, as "stream corridor" is defined
          in Section 19.72.070 of this title (Overlay zone); and
     4.   Free from any identified natural hazard such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high water table,
          and similar features. See Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75,
          "Natural Hazard Areas."




19.10.080 - Natural hazards.

     Construction of permanent structures in areas subject to natural hazards, including floods,
landslides, and avalanches, shall be subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in Chapter
19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75, "Natural Hazard Areas."




19.10.090 - Water quality.

A.   Department of Health Approval Required. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or site plan
     approval for all uses in the FM zones, regardless of size or number of units, the applicant shall
     receive the written approval of the health department certifying that all water quality and health
     requirements have been satisfied and that the proposed construction will not damage the natural
     watershed.
B.    Developments of More than Nine Lots/Units. Developments of more than nine lots or units shall
     receive the written approval of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality certifying that the
     culinary water system and the sewerage system meet all state water quality and health
     requirements. All approvals shall be in accordance with the regulations of the Utah Department of
     Environmental Quality relating to culinary water supply and wastewater disposal.
C.    Applicable State Regulations and Standards. The applicable state regulations for individual
     wastewater disposal systems can be found in the Utah Administrative Code, Sections R317-501
     through R317-513, as amended from time to time. The applicable state regulations for culinary water
     supply can be found in Utah Administrative Code, as amended from time to time.
D.    Subsequent Changes in Site Plan. If, after department of health or Utah Department of
     Environmental Quality review and action pursuant to this section, a site plan is modified such that the
     original limits of disturbance changes the applicant must submit the modified site plan to the
     appropriate health agency for retesting and a new determination whether all state wastewater and
     culinary water standards have been met. Evidence of such retesting must be submitted prior to final
     approval of the site plan.




19.10.100 - Grading.



                                                                                                   Page 45
     Grading shall be permitted only in conformance with the standards and limitations set forth in the
foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards."




19.10.110 - Tree and vegetation protection.

     Removal of trees or natural vegetation shall not be permitted except in conformance with the
standards and requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030H,
"Tree and Vegetation Protection."




19.10.120 - Utilities.

    All utilities in the FM zones shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for in Chapter
19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations."




19.10.130 - Building location, construction and design.

     All buildings and accessory structures in the FM zones, including single-family and multifamily
dwellings, shall be located, constructed, and designed in compliance with the development standards set
forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030, "Development standards," and in
Chapter 19.73 of this title, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."




19.10.140 - Off-street parking.

A.    Permitted Uses. The development services director or his designee shall determine the number of
     off-street parking spaces required, provided the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80 are met,
     except that the planning commission may modify the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through
     19.80.120 if such modification will better preserve views, protect existing trees/vegetation, or reduce
     the amount of disturbance to steep slopes, wetlands, streams, or other sensitive environmental
     areas.
B.   Conditional Uses. The planning commission shall determine the number of off-street parking spaces
     required, provided the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80 shall be met, except that for hotels
     and resort hotels one-half parking space shall be provided for each guestroom. The planning
     commission may modify the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through 19.80.120 if such
     modification will better preserve views, protect existing trees/vegetation, or reduce the amount of
     disturbance to steep slopes, wetlands, streams, or other sensitive environmental areas.




19.10.150 - Site development plan approval.

     Site development plans for all development in the FM zone, including single-family dwellings, shall
be approved prior to issuance of any building permits pursuant to the site development plan approval
requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050, "Approval procedure
for developments in the foothills and canyons overlay zone."



                                                                                                   Page 46
19.10.160 - Applicability to lots of record and waivers from slope requirements.

A.   Applicable to Lots of Record. All standards and requirements for development in the FM zones as
     set forth in this chapter shall apply to development on lots that were recorded prior to the enactment
     date of the ordinance originally adopting said standards and requirements.
B.   Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FM zones also located in
     the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the planning commission may waive
     slope requirements for streets/roads and slope protection requirements for lots of record and lots and
     plans of subdivisions that were provided prior to the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the
     conditions and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060A are satisfied.




Chapter 19.12 - FR-0.5, FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20, FR-50 AND FR-100 FORESTRY AND
RECREATION ZONES



19.12.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the forestry and recreation zones is to permit the development of the foothill and
canyon areas of the county for forestry, recreation, and other specified uses to the extent such
development is compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic resources of these areas for the
continued benefit of future generations.




19.12.020 - Permitted uses.

     The following uses are permitted in the FR zones subject to compliance with all applicable
requirements set forth in this chapter including those relating to site and lot dimensions, development
standards, and other regulations:
     A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted use;
     B.   Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020;
     C.   Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
     D.   Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in Section
          19.04.293;
     E.   Household pets, provided the area proposed for animals is not in a watershed area, primary
          water supply recharge area, or drinking water source protection area, as determined by the Salt
          Lake Valley health department or Utah Department of Environmental Quality;
     F.   Minor ski resort improvements, provided:
          1.   That the privately owned land areas on which such improvements are permitted constitute
               less than ten percent of the total land area utilized for the ski resort that the improvements
               support, and
          2.   That at least ninety percent of the land area on which the improvements are developed,
               operated, and maintained is on public lands, and




                                                                                                    Page 47
          3.   That the public agency responsible for the management and administration of such lands
               has previously approved a special use permit or similar regulatory authorization, and has
               assumed long-term administrative and enforcement responsibilities for such approvals, and
          4.   That opportunities for public notice, review, and comment on the proposed improvements
               have been provided through a finalized National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) or other
               comprehensive public review and comment process, and
          5.   That such improvements are either:
               a.    Essential to public safety, or
               b.    Required in association with the reasonable repair or maintenance of existing legally
                     established facilities and improvements, or
               c.    Essential to the continuation or extension of improvements approved under the terms
                     of a governmental land lease or use permit or by final action of the federal or state
                     governmental agency with jurisdiction over the lands on which the improvements are
                     located;
     G.    Residential facility for persons with a disability;
     H.    Single-family dwellings;
     I.   Wireless telecommunication facilities; provided:
          1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility, and
          2.   The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and
          3.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of
               the required site plan, and
          4.   All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications
               Facilities," are satisfied.




19.12.030 - Conditional uses.

     The following conditional uses are subject to the requirements of this chapter, all general and
specific conditions, criteria, and approval procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84, "Conditional Uses," and
for properties situated within the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the procedures and provisions of
Chapter 19.72, "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone" and Chapter 19.73, "Foothills and Canyons Site
Development and Design Standards."
       The development services director may review and approve conditional use permits for ski resort
facilities and improvements which satisfy the criteria set forth in subparts (E)(1) through (E)(4) of Section
19.12.020 of this chapter. In granting such approval within a foothills and canyon overlay zone, the
development services director may waive and/or modify the regulations of Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of
this title in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060, "Administration and
enforcement."
     Ski resort facilities and improvements which do not satisfy the criteria of Section 19.12.020, subparts
(E)(1) through (E)(4) of this chapter, as well as those which are referred to the planning commission by
the development services director in accordance with Section 19.84.080 provisions of this title, shall be
subject to review and approval by the planning commission. In its consideration of ski resort, public use,
and mineral extraction and processing development proposals in areas situated within the foothills and
canyons overlay zone, the planning commission may waive and/or modify the regulations of Chapters
19.72 and 19.73 of this title in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060,
"Administration and enforcement."



                                                                                                    Page 48
A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use;
B.   Bed and breakfast homestay; provided:
     1.    The access to the site and the on-site parking are available for use and maintained,
          including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
     2.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that is
          capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the health
          department prior to issuance of a license;
C.   Commercial and private recreation;
D.   Day care/preschool center, subject to the conditions set forth in Section 19.76.260;
E.   Dwelling group, provided:
     1.   The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group, as defined in Section 19.04.190, is to be
          erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum lot areas otherwise
          required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures in the group,
     2.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking spaces
          and vehicular maneuvering areas shall meet county standards,
     3.   The development or site plan shall provide a landscaped buffer area along the perimeter
          property lines and decorative adjacent to the buildings in appropriate locations,
          landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title, and
     4.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that is
          capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the health
          department;
F.   Home day care/preschool for no fewer than seven nor more than twelve children, subject to the
     conditions set forth in Section 19.04.293;
G.    Horses, and animals and fowl for family food production, as defined in Section 19.04.235 of this
     title, provided that:
     1.   The area proposed for animals is not a watershed area, as determined by the health
          department, and
     2.   The use will not create unreasonable on-site erosion, downstream siltation, bacteriological
          or biological pollution in subsurface or surface waters, destruction of vegetation, air
          pollution, including dust and odors or other detrimental environmental effects. In
          determining the environmental effects of the use, the planning commission shall seek and
          consider recommendations from the health department and other concerned agencies, and
          may require the applicant to submit scientific studies including analysis of slope, soils,
          vegetative cover, availability of water, and other elements necessary to establish
          environmental effects of the proposed use, and
     3.   The planning commission may limit the number of animals and fowl, or limit the amount of
          ground to be devoted to such use, or make other conditions to ensure environmental
          protection, and
     4.   After the use is established, if the planning commission determines, based on findings of
          facts, that unreasonable environmental degradation is occurring, the planning commission
          may, after notification to the applicant and hearing, establish additional conditions or order
          the use to be abated;
H.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any main use;
I.   Logging and lumber processing, provided evidence is presented of approval by any federal or
     state agencies with jurisdiction over such use;
J.   Mineral extraction and processing; provided that:


                                                                                               Page 49
     1.    The applicant shall comply with all applicable regulations of this chapter, including but not
           limited to site grading and drainage, landscaping, and environmental standards, and all
           applicable provisions in Chapter 19.72, "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone," and
           Chapter 19.73, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards," and
     2.    Such use shall not be located within one thousand feet of any residential use or lot, and
     3.    The perimeter of the site shall be screened from adjacent properties and roads with a
           buffer yard of adequate width and opacity as determined by the county, and
     4.    The applicant submits a plan, prepared by a qualified professional, that shows the location
           of existing and proposed watercourses and drainage systems, including lakes, ponds, and
           detention basins, and
     5.    Water accumulating on the site shall be removed to a drainage way and any contaminated
           water shall be treated before being allowed to enter a drainage way, and
     6.    The applicant shall present evidence of all necessary state and/or federal permits and
           approvals, and
     7.    Access shall be provided, either directly or over a private haul road, to an arterial street that
           is designed for heavy truck traffic, and
     8.    A haul road entering the site from a public street or road shall be paved for at least a
           distance of five hundred feet from the public street or road, and
     9.     The property shall be posted with a notice of dangerous conditions and warning
           trespassers away, and
     10.     Operations shall be conducted in compliance with health department regulations and
           standards regarding noise, odor, vibrations, dust, blowing debris, hazardous materials, and
           air quality, and
     11.     The applicant shall submit a general plan for proposed rehabilitation of the site, including
           a schedule of rehabilitation measures and proposed ground cover and landscaping to be
           installed following the completion of the operation or the expiration of the conditional use
           approval (see Sections 19.72.030H, "Tree and Vegetation Protection," and 19.72.030C,
           "Grading Standards"), and
     12.     If a change in ownership occurs, the new owner shall submit a new application for
           conditional use approval. Approval of the new application shall not be granted until all new
           federal and/or state permits are issued to the new owner, and
     13.     Any suspension or revocation of required state or federal permits shall constitute a
           violation of this chapter and will result in automatic suspension or revocation of all county
           approvals and permits, and
     14.     The county may require a bond in favor of the county to be posted by the applicant to
           cover damages that may occur to county roads as a result of hauling materials excavated
           from the permitted site. The amount of the bond less any sums needed to correct damages
           shall be refunded to the excavator within one year after the conclusion of the excavation,
           and
     15.    The county may impose additional conditions addressing access, circulation, operations,
           noise, hours of operation, and similar impacts it deems necessary to minimize potential
           significant impacts on adjacent properties and streets;
K.   Offices incidental to main use;
L.   Planned unit development subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in Chapter 19.78,
     "Planned Unit Developments";
M.   Public and quasi-public uses;



                                                                                                   Page 50
N.   Residential facility for elderly persons;
O.   Short term rentals provided that:
     1.   The property is located within Big or Little Cottonwood Canyons east of the dividing line
          between R1E and R2E, and
     2.    The on-site parking and the access to the site are available for use and maintained,
          including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
     3.   The dwelling unit is served by an approved drinking water supply and public sewer system
          that are capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and are approved by the
          health department prior to issuance of a license;
P.   Ski resorts;
Q.   Temporary structures;
R.   Underground record storage vaults, provided:
     1.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in Chapter 19.72,
          "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone" and Chapter 19.73, "Foothills and Canyons Site
          Development and Design Standards," including but not limited to development standards
          for grading, wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, outdoor lighting,
          natural hazards, and utilities, and standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
     2.   Excavation of the site to construct the underground vaults shall be conducted as follows:
          a.   Access to the site shall be controlled through one point, and
          b.   The excavator shall post the property, noting that a dangerous condition exists and
               warning trespassers away, and
          c.   The excavator shall take care that trucks leaving the property are not overloaded and
               that spilled material is removed from adjacent public roads not less frequently than
               once every twenty-four hours while the excavation is in progress, and
          d.   Water accumulating on the site shall be removed to a drainage way and any
               contaminated water shall be treated before being allowed to enter a drainage way,
               and
          e.   When the operation ceases for a period of at least ninety days or moves from one
               area of the site to another, slope and graded areas remaining shall be left in
               accordance with the requirements for grading and revegetation set forth in Sections
               19.72.030(B) and (C) of the foothills and canyons overlay district, and
          f.   The county may require a bond in favor of the county to be posted by the excavator to
               cover damages that may occur to county roads as a result of hauling materials
               excavated from the permitted site. The amount of the bond less any sums needed to
               correct damages shall be refunded to the excavator within one year after the
               conclusion of the excavation.
     3.   The applicant shall submit a general plan for proposed rehabilitation of the excavated site,
          including a schedule of rehabilitation measures and proposed ground cover and
          landscaping to be installed following the completion of the excavation;
S.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, as that term and all related terms are defined in Section
     19.83.020, provided:
     1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is either a wall-mounted, roof-mounted, or
          monopole facility. Facilities located on lattice towers are prohibited, and
     2.   Any grading for the facility, including access roads and trenching for utilities, shall comply
          with the Uniform Building Code, and



                                                                                               Page 51
            3.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in the foothills and
                 canyons overlay zone, Chapter 19.72, including development standards for grading,
                 wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, natural hazards, and utilities, and
                 standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
            4.   Site placement and facility color shall be carefully considered to blend in with the natural
                 surroundings, and
            5.   Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for monopole facilities,
                 and
            6.   The maximum height for monopole facilities shall be sixty feet, and
            7.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of
                 the required site plan and shall show all structures including but not limited to monopoles,
                 antennas, and equipment buildings; and all other applicable requirements set forth in
                 Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications Facilities," are satisfied.




19.12.040 - Lot area, lot width, density, and slope.

A.    Lot Area, Lot Width, and Density Requirements:

                                                                           Maximum Residential Density
 District        Minimum Lot Area           Minimum Lot Width
                                                                           (dwelling units per gross acre)

 FR-0.5                ½ acre                     100 feet                      2 d.u. per gross acre

     FR-1              1 acre                     200 feet                      1 d.u. per gross acre

 FR-2.5            2—2 ½ acres                    250 feet                    1 d.u. per 2.5 gross acres

     FR-5              5 acres                    300 feet                     1 d.u. per 5 gross acres

  FR-10               10 acres                    300 feet                    1 d.u. per 10 gross acres

  FR-20               20 acres                    300 feet                    1 d.u. per 20 gross acres

  FR-50               50 acres                    300 feet                    1 d.u. per 50 gross acres

 FR-100              100 acres                    300 feet                   1 d.u. per 100 gross acres




B.    Measurement of Lot Width. The minimum lot width of any lot shall be measured at a distance of fifty
      feet from the front lot line.
C.     Slope Requirements. All development in the FR zones shall be subject to the slope protection
      standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030B, "Slope Protection
      Standards" and Section 19.72.030D, "Streets and Roads."



                                                                                                          Page 52
19.12.050 - Limits of disturbance/setbacks.

     Because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of the foothill and canyon
areas, limits of disturbance and setbacks for permitted uses including single-family dwellings and
accessory structures in the FR zones shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the development
services director. Limits of disturbance and setbacks for conditional uses shall be as finally approved by
the planning commission, upon the recommendation of the development services director (see Chapter
19.72). All determinations of limits of disturbance shall be subject to the conditions and criteria set forth in
the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.040, "Establishment of limits of disturbance."




19.12.060 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
     following heights:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the original slope exceeds fifteen percent or the property is located
          in the foothills and canyons overlay zone. For purposes of this section, the slope shall be
          determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation
          on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The
          box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around
          the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a
          certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval of two feet.
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties.
B.   No single-family dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.12.070 - Natural hazards.

     Construction of permanent structures in areas subject to natural hazards, including floods,
landslides, and avalanches, shall be subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in Chapter
19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75, "Natural Hazard Areas."




19.12.080 - Water quality.

A.    Department of Health Approval Required. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or site
     development plan approval for all uses in the FR zones, regardless of size or number of units, the
     applicant shall receive the written approval of the board of health certifying that all water quality and
     health requirements have been satisfied and that the proposed construction will not damage the
     natural watershed.
B.    Developments of More than Nine Lots/Units. Developments of more than nine lots or units shall
     receive the written approval of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality certifying that the
     culinary water system and the sewerage system meet all state water quality and health
     requirements. All approvals shall be in accordance with the regulations of the Utah Department of
     Environmental Quality relating to culinary water supply and wastewater disposal.




                                                                                                       Page 53
C.    Applicable State Regulations and Standards. The applicable state regulations for individual
     wastewater disposal systems can be found in the Utah Administrative Code, Sections R317-501
     through R317-513, as amended from time to time. The applicable state regulations for culinary water
     supply can be found in Utah Administrative Code, as amended from time to time.
D.   Subsequent Changes in Site Plan. If after health department or Utah Department of Environmental
     Quality review and action pursuant to this section, a site development plan is modified such that the
     original limits of disturbance change, the applicant must submit the modified site plan to the
     appropriate health agency for retesting and a new determination whether all state wastewater and
     culinary water standards have been met. Evidence of such retesting must be submitted prior to final
     approval of the site development plan.




19.12.090 - Grading.

     Grading shall be permitted only in conformance with the standards and limitations set forth in the
foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards."




19.12.100 - Tree and vegetation protection.

     Removal of trees or natural vegetation shall not be permitted except in conformance with the
standards and requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030H,
"Tree and Vegetation Protection."




19.12.110 - Utilities.

    All utilities in the FR zones shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for in Chapter
19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations."




19.12.120 - Building location, construction, and design.

       All buildings and accessory structures in the FR zones, including single-family dwellings, shall be
located, constructed, and designed in compliance with the development standards set forth in the foothills
and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050, "Development standards," and in Chapter 19.73 of this
title, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."




19.12.130 - Off-street parking.

A.    Permitted Uses. The planning and development services division director shall determine the
     number of off-street parking spaces required, provided the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80
     are met, except that the planning commission may modify the requirements of Sections 19.80.060
     through 19.80.120 if such modification will better preserve views, protect existing trees/vegetation, or
     reduce the amount of disturbance to steep slopes, wetlands, streams, or other sensitive
     environmental areas.



                                                                                                    Page 54
B.   Conditional Uses. The planning commission shall determine the number of off-street parking spaces
     required provided the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80 are met, except that the planning
     commission may modify the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through 19.80.120 if such
     modification will better preserve views, protect existing trees/vegetation, or reduce the amount of
     disturbance to steep slopes, wetlands, streams, or other sensitive environmental areas.
C.   Covered parking is encouraged for all developments in the FR zone.




19.12.140 - Site development plan approval.

     Site development plans for all development in the FR zone, including single-family dwellings, shall be
approved prior to issuance of any building permits pursuant to the site development plan approval
requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050, "Approval procedures
for development in the foothills and canyons overlay zone."




19.12.150 - Applicability to lots of record and waivers from slope requirements.

A.   Applicable to Lots of Record. All standards and requirements for development in the FR zones as
     set forth in this chapter shall apply to development on lots and in subdivisions that were recorded
     prior to the enactment date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
B.   Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FR zones also located in
     the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the planning commission may waive
     grade requirements for streets/roads and slope protection requirements for lots of record and lots
     and plans of subdivisions that were approved prior to the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the
     conditions and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060A are satisfied.




Chapter 19.13 - MOUNTAIN RESORT ZONE



19.13.010 - Purpose statement.

      The purpose of the mountain resort zone (MRZ) is to provide a base zone that is suited for a
mountain resort's year-round recreation function and provides for the residential and commercial needs of
visitors and residents of the resort. It is intended to maintain the environmental, watershed, and aesthetic
protections of the foothills and canyons overlay zone (FCOZ), with appropriate flexibility to accomplish a
resort's year-round recreational functions. It is intended to encourage higher density mixed-use village
centers that reduce sprawl in the canyons and are compatible with the natural and scenic resources of
the canyons.




19.13.020 - Minimum requirements.

A.    Minimum Area. The minimum area requirement for a mountain resort zone shall be one thousand
     contiguous acres located within the county mountainous planning district, and be identified as one of
     the ski resorts or mountain resorts as adopted in the county general plan. The resort area may be
     made up of multiple property owners making application under one contiguous and cohesive plan. At


                                                                                                   Page 55
     least one of the owners must be a mountain resort. Lands under contract or agreement with a local,
     state, or federal agency may satisfy the contiguous requirement and the minimum area requirement,
     although land owned by the federal government is not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
     The resort area shall be primarily for the use of persons who do not reside on the same lot or parcel
     as that on which the recreational use is located.
B.   Required Recreation and Village Districts within the MRZ. To qualify for an MRZ, the applicant shall
     designate both a recreation and village district for its property. The proposed boundaries of the MRZ-
     recreation and MRZ-village districts shall be shown on the area plan (See Section 19.13.050).




19.13.030 - MRZ-recreation district.

A.   Permitted Uses. Permitted uses in the MRZ-recreation district are as follows:
     —    Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted use;
     —    Class B Beer outlet;
     —    Class C Beer outlet;
     —    Conservation activity;
     —    Trail and trailhead improvement;
     —    Employee and maintenance parking area with four or fewer spaces;
     —    Temporary construction improvement;
     —    Minor ski or mountain resort improvements;
     —    Mountain resorts, including the following:
         —    Recreational outdoor and trail lighting;

         —     Passenger ski or tramway station and ski base/terminal facility;

         —    Ski tow rope, ski lift, ski tram, ski run;

         —    Outdoor event, outdoor music;

         —    Resort support, commercial;

         —    Ropes course;

         —    Mountain bike trails;

         —    Frisbee golf course.

B.   Conditional Uses. Conditional uses in the MRZ-recreation district are as follows:
     —    Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to conditional use;
     —    Employee and maintenance parking area or structure with five or more spaces;
     —    Food and beverage businesses, including alcoholic beverage licenses;
     —    Mountain Bike Terrain Parks;
     —    Recreation equipment including swing sets, slides, jungle gyms, sand boxes, picnic tables and
         volleyball nets, but excluding baseball backstops, basketball standards, soccer goals, and
         tennis courts;



                                                                                                  Page 56
     —    Ski bridge;
     —    Natural resource based recreational activities and associated facilities, provided that:
          1.   The planning commission determines as part of a conditional use application all of the
               following:
               a.   The facility or activity does not change the primary purpose of the mountain resort to
                    other than snow sports;
               b.   The facility or activity encourages outdoor recreation and enjoyment of nature;
               c.   To the extent practicable, the facility or activity is located within the portions of the ski
                    area that are developed or that will be developed pursuant to the area plan;
               d.   The facility or activity is consistent with the zoning established in the area plan;
               e.    To the extent practicable, the facility or activity harmonizes with the natural
                    environment of the site in which it is located by:
                    i.    Being visually consistent with or subordinate to the mountain resort's existing
                          facilities, vegetation and landscape; and
                    ii.   Not requiring significant modifications to topography to facilitate construction or
                          operations, and;
               f.   The facility or activity does not require extensive new support facilities, such as parking
                     lots, restaurants, and lifts.
          2.   In determining if a proposed use qualifies as a natural resource based recreational facility
               or activity, the planning commission shall also consider the following additional factors:
               a.   The degree to which visitors are able to engage with the natural setting;
               b.   The similarity of the facility or activity to other permitted and conditional uses in the
                    MRZ recreation district; and,
               c.   The extent that a visitor's experience is interdependent with attributes common to the
                    natural setting.
C.   FCOZ Exceptions.
     1.   The following uses in the MRZ-recreation district are exempt from all requirements of Section
          19.72.060 (Slope Protection and Development on Ridgelines), subject to reasonable conditions
          that may be imposed under subsection 2 below.
          a.    Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the permitted uses in this
               subsection C.1;
          b.   Conservation activity;
          c.   Trail/trailhead improvement;
          d.   Passenger ski or tramway station, ski base/terminal facility, and ski bridge;
          e.   Ski tow rope, ski lift, ski tramway, run;
          f.   Ropes course;
          g.   Mountain bike terrain park and trails;
          h.   Frisbee golf course;
          i.   Minor ski or mountain resort improvements;
          j.   Natural resource based recreational facilities.




                                                                                                        Page 57
     2.    For the above uses, the director (for permitted uses) and the planning commission (for
          conditional uses) shall, as necessary, impose reasonable conditions to accomplish any or all of
          the following:
          a.   Preserve area views;
          b.   Reduce adverse impacts on existing trees and vegetation;
          c.   Reduce overall degree of disturbance to steep slopes over thirty percent;
          d.   Protect wildlife habitat;
          e.   Protect stream corridors, wetlands, rock outcrops & other sensitive environmental features
               in vicinity of proposed improvements;
          f.   Discourage unintended trespass onto adjoining land.
D.    Lot and Site Requirements. All structures must be no less than twenty-five feet from the boundary
     line of the lot, district, or public right-of-way. However, fences, walls, stairs, paths, trails, sidewalks,
     patios, driveways, accessory structures, approved parking areas, and screened mechanical and
     utility equipment are allowed as exceptions in the front, side, and rear yards.
E.   Building Height. No structure may be erected to a height greater than thirty feet from existing grade.
     This is the district height.
     1.   Building Height Exceptions. To allow for a pitched roof and to provide usable space within the
          structure, the following height exceptions shall apply:
          a.   A gable, hip, or similar pitched roof may extend up to five feet above the district height, if
               the roof pitch is four to twelve or greater.
          b.   An antenna, chimney, flue, vent, or similar structure may extend up to five feet above the
               highest point of the building to comply with International Building Code (IBC) requirements.
     2.    Other Height Exceptions. Subject to director approval for permitted uses and planning
          commission approval for conditional uses, the following structures may exceed the standard
          district height limit:
          a.   Ski lift towers and tramway towers. Submittal of a computer-generated visual simulation
               showing all structures is required.
          b.   Public or quasi-public uses.
          c.   Telecommunication facilities.
F.    Tree Replacement. Any application for a new or expanded ski run that includes the removal of
     significant trees shall be accompanied by a forestry study prepared by a certified forester that
     includes mitigation measures to protect the overall health of the forest in harmony with the purpose
     and intent of Section 19.72.110 of the foothills and canyons overlay zone. Conditions of approval
     may be imposed to mitigate the impacts of the removal of significant trees.




19.13.040 - MRZ-village district.

A.   Permitted Uses. Permitted uses in the MRZ-village district are as follows:
     —    Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted use;
     —    Bed and breakfast homestay;
     —    Bed and breakfast inn;
     —    Boardinghouse;



                                                                                                        Page 58
     —    Class B beer outlet;
     —    Class C beer outlet;
     —    Day care/preschool center;
     —    Dwellings, one-, two-, three-, four-family;
     —    Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children;
     —    Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any principal use;
     —    Lodginghouse;
     —    Minor ski or mountain resort improvements;
     —    Mountain resorts, including the following:
         —    Recreational outdoor and trail lighting;

         —     Passenger ski and tramway station and ski base facility;

         —    Ski tow rope, ski lift, ski tram, ski run;

         —    Skateboard park;

         —    Outdoor event, outdoor music;

         —    Resort support, commercial;

         —    Ropes course;

         —    Mountain bike trails;

         —    Frisbee golf course;

     —    Office incidental to main use;
     —    Package agency;
     —    Parking area or structure with ten or fewer spaces;
     —    Public and quasi-public use structure;
     —    Residential facility for elderly persons;
     —    Residential facility for persons with a disability;
     —    Restaurant, excluding drive-through;
     —    Restaurant liquor license;
     —    Retail goods establishment;
     —    Short-term dwelling rental;
     —    State store;
     —    Trail and trailhead improvement;
     —    Temporary construction improvement.
B.   Conditional Uses. Conditional uses in the MRZ-village district are as follows:
     —    Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to conditional use;
     —    Dwelling group;
     —    Dwellings, multiple-family;


                                                                                       Page 59
     —    Hotel/resort hotel;
     —    Motel;
     —    Mountain Bike Terrain Parks;
     —     Recreation equipment including swing sets, slides, jungle gyms, sand boxes, picnic tables,
          tennis courts, volleyball nets, basketball standards, baseball backstops and soccer goals;
     —    Parking area or structure with eleven or more spaces;
     —    Natural resource based recreational activities and associated facilities, provided that:
          1.    The planning commission considers as part of a conditional use application all of the
               following:
               a.   The facility or activity does not change the primary purpose of the mountain resort to
                    other than snow sports;
               b.   The facility or activity encourages outdoor recreation and enjoyment of nature;
               c.   To the extent practicable, the facility or activity is located within the portions of the ski
                    area that are developed or that will be developed pursuant to the area plan;
               d.   The facility or activity is consistent with the zoning established in the area plan;
               e.    To the extent practicable, the facility or activity harmonizes with the natural
                    environment of the site in which it is located by:
                    i.    Being visually consistent with or subordinate to the mountain resort's existing
                          facilities, vegetation and landscape; and
                    ii.   Not requiring significant modifications to topography to facilitate construction or
                          operations, and;
          f.   The facility or activity does not require extensive new support facilities, such as parking lots,
                restaurants, and lifts.
          2.   In determining if a proposed use qualifies as a natural resource based recreational facility
               or activity, the planning commission shall also consider the following additional factors:
               a.   The degree to which visitors are able to engage with the natural setting;
               b.   The similarity of the facility or activity to other permitted and conditional uses in the
                    MRZ recreation district; and
               c.   The extent that a visitor's experience is interdependent with attributes common to the
                    natural setting.
     —    Skating rink;
     —    Ski bridge;
     —    Swimming pool.
C.    Height. Height limits in the MRZ village district shall be determined by the county council in the area
     plan, subject to the following limitations. In no case shall the height of single-family dwellings exceed
     thirty feet. For uses in the MRZ village district that are also listed in the MRZ recreation district, the
     height shall be in accordance with 19.13.030E. The height of any other use in the MRZ village district
     shall be no greater than one hundred feet; the county council may consider the criteria in Section
     19.13.050(F) in making this determination.
D.    Density (Dwelling Units per Acre). Density limits in the MRZ village district shall be determined by
     the county council in the area plan, and shall be conditioned on water, sewer, and utility availability
     for the density proposed in the area plan. However, the maximum density for residential dwelling
     units shall be twenty dwelling units or forty guestrooms per net developable acre.



                                                                                                        Page 60
E.   Lot Area, Lot Width, and Setbacks.
     1.   Minimum lot area.
          a.   Single-family residential: Six thousand square feet.
          b.   All other uses, unless lot area otherwise specified in this chapter: No minimum lot area.
     2.   Minimum lot width.
          a.   Single-family residential: Sixty feet.
          b.   All other uses, unless lot width otherwise specified in this chapter: No minimum lot width.
     3.   Setbacks.
          a.   Front yard:
               i.     Single-, two-, three-, and four-family dwelling: Twenty feet.
               ii.    Accessory building related to the above: Twenty feet.
               iii.    All other uses, unless front yard setback otherwise specified in this chapter: Zero feet.
          b.   Side yard:
               i.     Single-, two-, three-, and four-family dwelling: Eight feet, with a total of two required
                      side yards of not less than eighteen feet.
               ii.    Accessory building related to the above: Eight feet, except three feet when located at
                      least ten feet from the rear of the dwelling.
               iii.    All other uses, unless side yard setback otherwise specified in this chapter: Zero feet.
          c.   Rear yard:
               i.     Single-, two-, three-, and four-family dwelling: Twenty feet.
               ii.    Accessory building related to the above: Three feet, except eight feet where accessory
                      building rears on side yard of a lot that lies adjacent to a corner lot.
               iii.    All other uses, unless rear yard setback otherwise specified in this chapter: Zero feet.
          d.   Exceptions. An applicant may locate a structure closer to the property line than specified by
               the above setbacks if applicant can demonstrate to the land use authority that the structure
               will not place additional burden on neighboring properties by addressing the following
               factors: snow load, drainage, access, fire protection, and building code.
F.   FCOZ Exceptions.
     1.    The following uses in the MRZ-village district are exempt from all requirements of Section
          19.72.060 (Slope Protection and Development on Ridgelines), subject to reasonable conditions
          that may be imposed under subsection 2. below.
          a.   Conservation activity;
          b.   Trail/trailhead improvement;
          c.   Passenger ski and tramway station, ski base/terminal facility, and bridge;
          d.   Ski tow rope, ski lift, ski tramway, ski run;
               i.     Grading for these uses is exempt from Section 19.72.070 (Grading Standards), subject
                      to the director's authority to impose conditions pursuant to subsection F.2 of this
                      section.
          e.   Ropes course;
          f.   Mountain bike terrain park and trails;



                                                                                                        Page 61
     g.   Frisbee golf course;
     h.   Minor ski or mountain resort improvements;
     i.   Natural resource based recreational activities and associated facilities.
2.    For the above uses, the director (for permitted uses) and the planning commission (for
     conditional uses) shall, as necessary, impose reasonable conditions to accomplish any or all of
     the following:
     a.   Preserve area views;
     b.   Reduce adverse impacts on existing trees and vegetation;
     c.   Reduce overall degree of disturbance to steep slopes over thirty percent;
     d.   Protect wildlife habitat;
     e.    Protect stream corridors, wetlands, rock outcrops and other sensitive environmental
          features in vicinity of proposed improvements.
3.   Development of other permitted or conditional uses on slopes between thirty-one through forty
     percent, may be accepted as suitable if adequate mitigation techniques acceptable to the
     director are proposed by the applicant or required by the director in conjunction with submittal
     by the applicant of the information outlined in subsections a—f. below. The director may consult
     with others to assist in determining compliance with the submittal requirements below and in
     requiring specific designs and mitigation techniques. The director may require these specific
     designs and mitigation techniques, together with implementation timelines, to be defined and
     documented within the development agreement required by Section 19.13.060.
     a.   A soils report stamped by a person licensed as a professional engineer in the State of Utah
          ("professional engineer");
     b.   A grading plan stamped by a professional engineer, which complies with I.C.C. standards,
          with a maximum finished grade of two to one (horizontal:vertical) unless otherwise
          approved by the director with surface stabilization, and provided that no grading exceeds a
          one to one ratio;
     c.   If a retaining wall(s) is used, a retaining wall submittal that includes the following:
          i.     Section detail for each type of wall proposed;
          ii.    Calculated factor of safety for overturning and sliding;
          iii.   Design parameters such as ϕ, ϒ, c, etc.;
          iv.     Any necessary design assumptions such as unique drainage conditions, load
                 surcharge, utility impact, etc.;
          v.     Height, batter, adjacent slopes, bench widths, etc.;
          vi.     Comprehensive design calculations, wall profiles, and additional sections;
          vii.    Documentation of compliance with the International Building Code.
     d.   A slope stability analysis that has been reviewed and approved by the county's contracted
          geologist, the review fee to be paid by applicant;
     e.    Excavation stabilization plans prepared by a professional engineer, which includes the
          following:
          i.     Extent of the excavation;
          ii.    Cross section(s) of the excavation cut;
          iii.    Spot elevations of the top and bottom of cuts;




                                                                                                    Page 62
               iv.    Location of construction fences;
               v.     Site-specific construction drawings of excavation stabilization measures;
               vi.    Necessary erosion control measures;
               vii.    Location and depth of utilities located within twelve feet of the proposed system; and
               viii   How service lines will be accommodated with the proposed system.
     4.   To the extent that FCOZ does not allow development of streets, roads, alleys, or driveways on
          slopes between thirty-one through forty percent, the director may accept these as suitable under
          the requirements in subsection F.3. of this section.




19.13.050 - MRZ area plan.

A.   Purpose. The purpose of an area plan is:
     1.   To acknowledge vested rights that a mountain resort already has in a previously approved
          master plan,
     2.   To establish boundaries of the MRZ-recreation and MRZ-village districts,
     3.   To establish height and density limits for the MRZ-village district,
     4.   To establish water, sewer, and utility availability for the proposed density, and
     5.   To map the location of current improvements and possible future projects.
B.    Application. An application for approval of an area plan shall be filed in conjunction with an
     application to rezone the property in the area plan to a mountain resort zone. The application shall
     be made on a form provided by the director and shall include a legal description of the property, a list
     of names and mailing addresses of all adjacent property owners and written consent of owners of all
     property to be included in the area plan, or their agents or authorized representatives. The
     application shall be accompanied by submittal requirements outlined in subsection D.2 of this section
     and an area plan as outlined in subsection C of this section. Notification of the application shall be
     provided to the U.S. Forest Service at least thirty days prior to the first planning commission hearing.
C.    Contents of Proposed Area Plan. The proposed area plan shall be comprised of materials submitted
     in accordance with subsection D.2 of this section. The area plan shall contain at minimum the
     following information:
     1.   A map that contains the following basic information:
          a.   The proposed boundaries for the MRZ-recreation and MRZ-village districts.
               b.     Topography and natural water features (including wetlands) of the property within the
                      area plan, including all adjoining areas owned or leased by the mountain resort as
                      part of the resort.
          c.    Current improvements within the proposed MRZ-village and MRZ-recreation districts,
               including buildings (and their uses), parking structures/lots, roads, etc.
          d.   Proposed building pads, housing areas, and parking areas/structures.
          e.   Proposed traffic circulation plans.
          f.   Current, and if applicable, proposed mass transit stops or centers.
     2.   A list of the proposed permitted and conditional uses for the MRZ-village and MRZ-recreation
          districts, which complies with the MRZ zone.




                                                                                                      Page 63
     3.   Proposed total number of dwelling units and guestrooms for the MRZ-village district, which
          complies with the MRZ zone or previously approved master plan.
     4.   Heights of existing buildings and proposed height limits of future buildings.
     5.   Water agreement with Salt Lake City, or service area as applicable, certifying water availability
          for the proposed number of dwelling units and guestrooms for the MRZ-village district.
     6.   Approval of the proposed number of dwelling units and guestrooms for the MRZ-village district
          by the county health department, or service area as applicable, after verification of water
          availability and sufficient sewer capacity; alternatively, approval from the county health
          department for a previously approved master plan for the same number of dwelling units and
          guestrooms is adequate.
     7.   "Will provide" letters from power and natural gas suppliers, certifying availability of those utilities
          for the proposed number of dwelling units and guestrooms for the MRZ-village district, or such a
          letter for a previously approved master plan for the same number of dwelling units and
          guestrooms.
D.   Area Plan Review Procedures.
     1.    Pre-application conference. Prior to submittal of a formal application for an area plan and
          associated MRZ rezone, the applicant shall hold a pre-application conference with the director
          or director's designee. The purpose of this meeting shall be to discuss the goals of the
          proposed area plan and associated MRZ rezone, the relationship of the proposal to applicable
          elements of any applicable master plan or general plan, and the review procedure that will be
          followed for the application.
     2.   Submittal requirements. The director shall establish the submittal requirements for an approved
          area plan application. Certain submittal requirements may be waived or modified by the director
          or the planning commission if it is demonstrated by the applicant that the information and
          materials required are not relevant to the proposed area plan. A complete list of the submittal
          requirements shall be maintained by the director and filed in the county office of township
          services.
     3.   Planning commission recommendation. The planning commission shall review the proposed
          area plan and associated MRZ rezone request at a regularly scheduled meeting. A report of the
          planning staff's findings and recommendations shall be presented at a public hearing before the
          planning commission. The planning commission shall make a recommendation to the county
          council whether the proposed rezone and associated area plan should be approved. The
          planning commission may consider the criteria in subsection E below when making its
          recommendation.
     4.    County council final review. The final review of a proposed area plan and associated MRZ
          rezone shall be by the county council at either a regularly scheduled meeting or a special
          meeting. Prior to this meeting, and at the discretion of the director, a work session at a regularly
          scheduled public meeting may be held with the applicant, staff, and the county council to
          discuss the area plan and associated MRZ rezone. A report of the planning staff's findings and
          recommendations, together with those of the planning commission, shall be presented at a
          public hearing before the county council. In making its determination whether to approve the
          area plan and associated MRZ rezone, the county council may consider the criteria in
          subsection F below. The county council may modify any element of the proposed area plan, so
          long as vested rights under a previously approved master plan are not modified, and subject to
          water agreements between the applicant and Salt Lake City, or service area as applicable.
E.   Area plan and MRZ rezone criteria. The following criteria may be considered in evaluating the merits
     of a proposed area plan and associated MRZ rezone.
     1.   Compatibility. Compatibility and sensitivity to the immediate environment, neighborhood, and
          adjacent properties.



                                                                                                        Page 64
     2.   Relationship. Uses, activity, and density, which provide a compatible, efficient, and workable
          relationship with surrounding uses and activity.
     3.   General plan. Conformity with the applicable general plan.
     4.   Protection of the natural setting. Uses, activity, and density that are consistent with protecting
          the natural setting in which the property is located, based on the current environmental data
          available to Salt Lake County.
     5.   Other criteria. Other criteria deemed appropriate to ensure that the purposes of Section
          19.13.010 are met.
F.    Previously Approved Master Planned Resort. In the event that a previously approved master
     planned resort makes application to rezone its property to a mountain resort zone, it shall submit an
     area plan in accordance with this section. However, in doing so, it shall retain all vested rights in a
     previously approved master plan.
G.    Plan Amendments. A previously approved MRZ area plan may be amended subject to the review
     procedures in Subsection 19.13.050D. to propose changes to any information contained in
     Subsections 19.13.050C.1. through 4. above, including to change the boundaries of the MRZ-village
     and the MRZ-recreation districts or to add land that has been acquired by the resort through land
     trade involving properties within big or little cottonwood canyons.




19.13.060 - MRZ-village development plan.

A.   Purpose. The purpose of an MRZ-village development plan is to provide for an integrated master
     plan for the village or phases thereof, which outlines the details of projects to be built in areas such
     as parking; pedestrian, bicycle, and transit facilities; building scale, design, architecture, and
     materials; public infrastructure and utilities; access and circulation; landscaping; lighting; common
     areas; phasing of projects; natural hazards; grading and drainage; etc.
B.    Process. A development plan shall be in the form of a development agreement. If the development
     plan contains any deviations from FCOZ design standards in Section 19.72.170, the applicant shall
     identify those deviations in the development plan, and the planning commission has the authority to
     determine whether to approve, approve with modification, or deny the development agreement in
     accordance with subsection C below. Notification of the application shall be provided to the U.S.
     Forest Service thirty days prior to the first planning commission hearing. The mayor shall sign the
     approved development plan.
     1.   Consolidation of processes. A development plan for the entire village, or phases thereof, may
          be presented to the planning commission as part of an application to rezone and submittal of an
          area plan. A development plan may also be submitted in conjunction with a conditional use
          application.
     2.   Staff review. Planning staff shall review the proposed development plan and identify deviations
          from FCOZ design standards in Section 19.72.170, in addition to those identified by the
          applicant, so that applicant can decide whether to retain those deviations and seek planning
          commission approval for the same.
     3.   MRZ Standards for adjusting FCOZ design standards. The standards outlined in subsection C
          of this section for obtaining adjustments to the FCOZ design standards shall be in addition to
          those outlined in Subsection 19.72.170B, i.e., adjustments shall also be consistent with the
          purposes of FCOZ as stated in Section 19.72.010.
     4.   No additional conditional use permit approval required. Once a development plan is approved,
          the applicant need not obtain separate conditional use permits when each component of that
          plan is developed, unless sufficient plans necessary to obtain conditional use approval were not
          submitted with the development plan application.


                                                                                                    Page 65
C.    Factors for Approval of A Development Plan. The planning commission shall consider the following
     factors, as it deems applicable, when determining whether to deny, approve, or approve with
     modifications a proposed development plan.
     1.   Compliance with the general plan. Does the proposed development comply with the applicable
          general plan?
     2.   Compatibility. Is the development plan compatible with the context and visual character of the
          area? In considering this factor, the following criteria may be used:
          a.   Does the development plan respond to the site's natural characteristics and physical
               constraints such as steep slopes, vegetation, waterways, and any natural or man-made
               hazards and allow development to blend in with or enhance said features?
          b.   Does the project preserve important geologic features, mature vegetation, and structures
               or features of the site that have historic, cultural, visual, or ecological importance or
               contribute to the identity of the community?
          c.   Are buildings oriented to public right of way and sited to reflect the neighborhood context?
               Are buildings and access ways arranged to allow effective emergency, maintenance, and
               service vehicle access?
          d.   Are the proposed building materials compatible with those typically seen in the immediate
               vicinity?
          e.   In assessing the impacts of the proposed development plan, has consideration been given
               to the current environmental data available to Salt Lake County?
     3.   Building scale. Is the proposed scale/mass of buildings within the proposed project compatible
          with or enhance the cohesiveness or distinctive identity of the neighborhood and surrounding
          development patterns, including the scale and massing of nearby historical or cultural
          resources?
     4.   Pedestrian, bicycle and transit facilities. Does the proposed development improve pedestrian,
          bicycle, and transit facilities? Are these facilities and improvements prioritized over vehicular
          facilities and improvements? Are specific designs, mitigation techniques, and implementation
          timelines defined as part of the development plan?
     5.   Public infrastructure and facilities. Are public infrastructure and facilities upgrades necessary to
          serve the project? If so, improvements shall be at the sole costs of the developer. The county
          may require specific designs, mitigation techniques, and implementation timelines within the
          development agreement.
     6.    Access and circulation. Does the proposed development provide adequate access and
          circulation? Are traffic congestion mitigation techniques included as part of the development
          plan?
     7.    Site grading and snow removal. Do buildings and site grading provide simple, at-grade
          entrances and minimize extensive grade-changes along building exteriors? Is adequate snow
          storage accommodated?
     8.   Parking. Have the following issues been addressed?
          a.   The probable number of cars to be operated by those using the proposed development and
               the nature of the proposed uses;
          b.   The availability of public transit and other transportation facilities, including those for
               pedestrian access;
          c.    The commitment to utilize automobile disincentive techniques in the proposed
               development; and
          d.   The potential for joint use of common parking.



                                                                                                     Page 66
D.    Development Plan Application Contents. The contents of the application for a development plan
     shall include the items listed below. Staff may recommend, and the planning commission may
     require, that any of these items be incorporated into a development agreement. The director may
     waive any of these items if the applicant demonstrates that the information and materials required
     are not relevant to the proposed development plan.
     1.    A completed application on a form provided by the director, a legal description of the property
           subject to the development plan, and a list of names and mailing addresses of all adjacent
           property owners.
     2.    A description and depiction of the proposed development, including limits of disturbance and
           compliance with other FCOZ requirements, land uses, densities, natural features (including
           proximity of project improvements to wetlands or perennial streams), traffic and pedestrian
           circulation, parking, open space areas, landscaping, lighting improvements, and provision of
           services, such as water, sewer, gas, and electric. Issues resolved in the area plan stage may
           not be reconsidered at the development plan stage. Also, a statement of the objectives to be
           achieved by the development plan.
     3.    An architectural character plan showing the use, massing, scale and orientation of the proposed
           buildings, and their orientation to public spaces and other buildings, and other attributes which
           may significantly represent the proposed development.
     4.    A description, and depiction as needed, of deviations from FCOZ design standards in Section
           19.72.170 in the proposed development agreement, and justification for each deviation.
     5.    Studies and reports required by Section 19.75.030 of Chapter 19.75, Geologic Hazards.
     6.    A statement prepared by a Utah registered professional engineer, and depiction or mapping as
           necessary, describing the potential infrastructure upgrades, alignment, design, and mitigation
           techniques that may be necessary for development of the site to be served by public
           infrastructure. The information shall be of sufficient detail to determine the acceptable
           location(s) and extent of development and to understand the necessary upgrades and the
           possible alignments, designs, or mitigation techniques that may be required.
     7.    A written response to each of the factors for approval outlined in subsection C of this section, as
           applicable.
     8.     A grading and drainage plan showing all grading and how drainage and stormwater is
           accommodated, which meets county requirements for grading, drainage, and stormwater.
     9.    If proposed, a description, and depiction as necessary, for specific pedestrian, bicycle, and
           transit facility designs, mitigation techniques, and implementation timelines. These plans shall
           provide sufficient detail to determine if the design or mitigation concept addresses the standards
           outlined in Chapter 19.80, Off-Street Parking Requirements, but do not need to be detailed
           construction documents.
     10.    A description of any proposed project phasing detailing the specific improvements within each
           phase.
     11.    Other submittal requirements that the director establishes for a development plan application.
           A complete list of such requirements shall be maintained by the director and filed in the county
           office of township services.




19.13.070 - Regulations that apply to both MRZ-recreation and MRZ-village districts.

A.   Limits of Disturbance. Because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of the
     foothill and canyon areas, limits of disturbance for permitted uses shall be determined on a case-by-
     case basis by the director. Limits of disturbance for conditional uses shall be as finally approved by



                                                                                                     Page 67
     the planning commission upon the recommendation of the director (see Section 19.72.160). All
     determinations of limits of disturbance shall be subject to the conditions and criteria set forth in the
     foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.160.
B.   Water Supply and Quality.
     1.   Salt Lake City certification required. Prior to planning commission or director approval of a
          conditional use or site plan for all uses in the MRZ districts, the plan shall be referred to Salt
          Lake City's division of public utilities to ensure compliance with the city's applicable ordinances
          and watershed protection standards. If Salt Lake City's certification is not given within the time
          prescribed by county ordinance for processing applications, the planning commission or director
          may approve the application subject to Salt Lake City's certification.
     2.   Department of health approval required. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or site plan
          approval for all uses in the MRZ districts, the applicant shall receive the written approval of the
          health department certifying that all water quality and health requirements have been satisfied
          and that the proposed construction will not damage the natural watershed.
     3.    Applicable state regulations and standards. Developments shall be in compliance with
          applicable state regulations for individual wastewater disposal systems and culinary water
          supply.
     4.     Subsequent changes in site plan. If, after health department or Utah Department of
          Environmental Quality approvals, a site development plan is modified such that the original
          limits of disturbance change, the applicant shall submit the modified site plan to the health
          department for retesting and new approval. Evidence of such retesting and approval shall be
          submitted prior to final approval of the site development plan.
C.    Utilities. All utilities in the MRZ districts shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for
     in state law.




19.13.080 - Definitions.

     For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
    "Conservation activity" means a process to restore, enhance, protect, and sustain the quality and
quantity of ecosystems and natural resources.
     "Driveway" means a private area used for ingress and egress of vehicles, which allows access from
a street or road to a building, structure, or parking spaces.
    "Fence" means a structure erected to provide privacy or security, which defines a private space or is
used to constrain domestic animals.
     "Grading" means any change of existing surface conditions by excavating, placing of any soils or
rocks, or stripping of vegetation.
     "Limits of disturbance" means the area(s) in which construction and development activity are to be
contained, including development and construction of the principal building, accessory structures,
recreation areas, utilities, services, driveways, septic tank drain fields and related system requirements,
storm drainage, and other similar services or improvements. However, up to ten feet of paved or unpaved
shoulders for driveways are not included in the limits of disturbance.
     "Lot of record" means a lot or parcel of land established in compliance with all laws applicable at the
time of its creation and recorded in the office of the county recorder either as part of a recorded
subdivision or as described on a deed, having frontage upon a street, a right-of-way approved by the land
use hearing officer, or a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide.




                                                                                                     Page 68
     "Minor ski resort improvements" means construction activities associated with the ongoing operation
and maintenance of previously approved facilities, ski runs, ski trails, ski lifts and related resort
appurtenances, equipment, recreational access corridors, pedestrian or non-motorized trails, non-snow
related activities and accessory uses, or vehicular maintenance roads constructed or used in connection
with the construction, operation, or maintenance of a resort.
     "Mountain bike terrain park" means an area containing fixed trails, artificial features and obstacles
made primarily of natural materials such as earth, wood, and stone that is designed to create a biking
experience interdependent with the attributes of a mountainous setting, but excluding facilities built solely
for a temporary event requiring a mass gathering permit. Paved surfaces may be allowed in limited areas
as needed for erosion control and rider safety. Mountain bike terrain parks shall comply with FCOZ
requirements for grading and retaining walls.
     "Mountain resort" or "Ski resort" means:
     A.    Any publicly or privately developed recreational use permitted by relevant local, state, and
          federal authorities, for snow-related activities, accessory year-round or non-snow related
          activities, and associated facilities and improvements.
     B.   Such uses, activities, and facilities may be conducted on a commercial or membership basis,
          whether solely on privately-owned property or on privately-owned lots or parcels interspersed
          with public land under a special use permit from the U.S. Forest Service or other public agency,
          primarily for the use of persons who do not reside on the same lot or parcel as that on which the
          recreational use is located.
          1.   Snow related activities include but are not limited to: downhill skiing, cross-country skiing,
               snowboarding, snow shoeing, snowmobiling, or other snow related activities.
          2.   Accessory year-round and non-snow related activities include but are not limited to: alpine
               recreational activities; natural resource based recreational facilities; cultural events and
               festivals; and conference events.
          3.   Associated facilities and improvements include, but are not limited to: lodging; food, retail,
               and support services; recreational and fitness facilities; parking accommodations; and
               other uses of a similar nature specifically authorized in conjunction with the operation of a
               year-round resort.
       "Natural resource based recreational activities and associated facilities" means activities and
facilities that encourage outdoor recreation and enjoyment of nature that, to the extent practicable,
harmonize with the natural environment; including uses such as zip lines, mountain bike trails, disc golf
courses, and ropes courses; but excluding tennis courts, water slides and water parks, swimming pools,
golf courses, and amusement parks.
     "Net developable acreage" means land with all of the following:
     1.   Average slope less than thirty percent;
     2.   Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and percolation tests in accordance
          with the regulations of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality in order to ensure against
          adverse impacts on surface water and groundwater quality;
     3.   Minimum distance from any stream corridor of one hundred feet; and
     4.   Free from any identified natural hazard such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high water table,
          and similar features. See Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75,
          "Natural Hazard Areas."
     "Open Space" means any area of a lot that is completely free and unobstructed from any man-made
structure or parking areas.
     "Parking area" means an unenclosed area or lot other than a street used or designed for parking.
     "Parking structure" means a fully enclosed structure designed and intended for parking.



                                                                                                    Page 69
     "Passenger tramway" means a mechanical device to transport passengers and cargo by means of
chairs or enclosed compartments attached to a cable or to rails, including each of the devices described
in Section 72-11-102 of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended. Includes ski tows and ski lifts.
    "Resort support, commercial" means a use that is clearly incidental to, and customarily found in
connection with, the principal building or use, and that is operated and maintained for the benefit and
convenience of the owners, occupants, employees, customers, or visitors to the principal use or building.
     "Site plan" means an accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing conditions on a land parcel
and the details of a proposed development, including but not limited to: topography; vegetation; drainage;
flood plains; wetlands; waterways; landscaping and open space; walkways; means of ingress and egress;
circulation; utility easements and services; structures and buildings; lighting; berms, buffers and screening
devices; development on adjacent property; and any other information that may be required to make an
informed decision.
     "Slope" means the level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by dividing, in fifty foot
intervals, the average horizontal run of the slope into the average vertical rise of the same slope and
converting the resulting figure into a percentage value.
     "Trails" means a type of natural open space that is a system of public recreational pathways located
within the unincorporated county for use by the public for purposes as designated.
    "Vegetation" means living plant material, including but not limited to trees, shrubs, flowers, grass,
herbs, and ground cover.




Chapter 19.14 - R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5, R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-8, R-1-10, R-1-15, R-1-21, R-1-43 SINGLE-
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES



19.14.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the R-1 zones is to establish single-family neighborhoods which provide persons who
reside therein a comfortable, health, safe and pleasant environment.




19.14.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the R-1 zones are as follows:

    Zone                                               Permitted Uses

              —Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use provided the
              total square footage of all accessory buildings does not exceed eight hundred square feet
All R-1 zones
              on lots under one-half acre or one thousand two hundred square feet on lots one-half
              acre or larger;

                —Agriculture;

                —Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;




                                                                                                    Page 70
               —Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

               —Household pets;

               —Residential facility for persons with a disability.

R-1-6, R-1-7,
R-1-8, R-1-10, —Single-family dwelling.
   R-1-15

R-1-21, R-1-   —Guesthouse, the square footage must be less than one thousand two hundred square
     43        feet;

               —Maximum of four horses for private use only, not for rental;

               —Single-family dwelling.




19.14.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-1 zones are as follows:

  Zone                                              Conditional Uses

            —Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a conditional use. Any accessory
  All R-1   building or buildings where the total square footage exceeds eight hundred square feet on
  zones     lots under one half-acre or one thousand two hundred square feet on lots one-half acre or
            larger;

            —Cemetery;

            —Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;

            —Golf course;

            —Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

            —Planned unit development;

            —Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily
            given in public schools;




                                                                                                  Page 71
            —Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;

            —Public and quasi-public uses;

            —Residential facility for elderly persons;

            —Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which building must be
            removed upon the completion of the construction work. If such buildings are not removed
            within ninety days upon completion of construction work or thirty days after notice, the
            building will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner.

R-1-3, R-
            —Single-family dwelling.
  1-4,

            —Single-family project developments
            The planning commission may approve a detailed development plan for the entire single-
            family project in an R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5 zone, pursuant to Chapter 19.84 of this title.
  R-1-5
            Thereafter, the development services division director may, as authorized by the planning
            commission, approve use permits for individual residential uses, provided that the plans
            comply with all requirements and conditions of the approved development plan.

 R-1-6, R-
1-7, R-1-8, —Nursery and greenhouse, provided that there is no retail sales;
  R-1-10,

 R-1-15     —Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;

            —Sportsman's kennel with a minimum lot area of one acre.

R-1-21, R-
           —Animals and fowl for family food production;
   1-43

            —Bed and breakfast homestay;

            —Nursery and greenhouse; provided, that there is no retail sales;

            —Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;

            —Sportsman's kennel with a minimum lot area of one acre.




                                                                                                 Page 72
19.14.040 - Lot areas and widths.

      The minimum lot area and width requirements are as follows:

 Zone            Minimum Lot Area                                  Minimum Lot Width

 R-1-3           3,000 square feet          25 feet at a distance 20 feet from the front lot line

 R-1-4           4,000 square feet          Same as above

 R-1-5           5,000 square feet          Same as above

 R-1-6           6,000 square feet          60 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line

 R-1-7           7,000 square feet          65 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line

 R-1-8           8,000 square feet          Same as above

R-1-10          10,000 square feet          80 feet at a distance 30 feet back from the front lot line

R-1-15          15,000 square feet          Same as above

R-1-21      21,780 square feet (½ acre)     100 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line

R-1-43      43,560 square feet (1 acre)     Same as above




19.14.050 - Yards.

A.    Dwellings: The minimum yard requirements for a private garage or dwelling are as follows:

                                                               Side Yard          Rear Yard
              Front                                                                                  Rear Yard
     Zone                     Side Yard (Interior)          (Facing a public       Without
              Yard                                                                                  With Garage
                                                                 street)           Garage

R-1-3, R-1-         5 feet unless attached to a
            20 feet                                         20 feet             20 feet             15 feet
 4, R-1-5           dwelling on an adjacent lot

                    5 feet one side and 11 feet on the
R-1-6, R-1-
            25 feet garage or driveway side or 8 feet       20 feet             30 feet             15 feet
 7, R-1-8
                    on each side




                                                                                                         Page 73
R-1-10, R-
                                                                                  Same as        Same as
1-15, R-1- 30 feet 10 feet on each side                     20 feet
                                                                                  above          above
    21

                                                                                  Same as        Same as
     R-1-43    30 feet 15 feet on each side                 20 feet
                                                                                  above          above




B.     Accessory Buildings: The minimum yard requirements for an accessory building, which may include
       a private garage that does not meet the setback requirements listed in subsection A above, are as
       follows:

                                          Minimum       Minimum Side
                       Minimum Front
        Zone                              Side Yard     Yard (Facing a             Minimum Rear Yard
                            Yard
                                          (Interior)     public street)

 R-1-3, R-1-4, R-                                                         1 foot, except lots which rear upon
                   Must be in the
1-5, R-1-6, R-1-7,                                                        the side yard of an adjacent lot, in
                   rear yard and 6
R-1-8, R-1-10, R-                        1 foot         20 feet           which case the minimum setback
                   feet away from
 1-15, R-1-21, R-                                                         shall be 10 feet from the adjoining
                   the dwelling
       1-43                                                               side yard.




C.     The minimum yard requirements for a main building other than residential are as follows:

                Zone                   Minimum Front Yard         Minimum Side Yards     Minimum Rear Yard

         R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5                  20 feet                   20 feet                20 feet

         R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-8                  25 feet                   20 feet                30 feet

 R-1-10, R-1-15, R-1-21, R-1-43               30 feet                   20 feet                30 feet




19.14.055 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments shall be determined by the planning
commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following factors: recommendations of
county and non-county agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions
of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission shall not approve a
planned unit development with density higher than the following:


                                                                                                      Page 74
              R-1-3                                           11.0 units per acre

              R-1-4                                              9.0 units per acre

              R-1-5                                              7.0 units per acre

              R-1-6                                              6.0 units per acre

              R-1-7                                              5.0 units per acre

              R-1-8                                              4.5 units per acre

           R-1-10                                                4.0 units per acre

           R-1-15                                                2.5 units per acre

           R-1-21                                                2.0 units per acre

           R-1-43                                                1.0 units per acre




19.14.060 - Building height.

     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title no building or structure shall exceed the
following height (see Section 19.04.095 (A) for definition of "height"):
    A.    Main Buildings.
         1.     Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
                percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
                determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
                elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or
                structure. Said box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
                whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation
                shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
                of two feet.
         2.     Thirty-five feet on properties other than those listed in number one of this subsection.
         3.     No dwelling shall contain less than one story.
    B.    Accessory Buildings.
         1.      No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in
                height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back
                from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




                                                                                                      Page 75
19.14.070 - Coverage of rear yards.

     No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five percent of
the rear yard.




19.14.080 - Informational.

    For additional information refer to the zoning ordinance and in particular the following sections:

    19.76.020      Occupancy permit.

    19.04.560      Yard.

    19.76.080      Lots and buildings on private rights-of-ways.

    19.76.100      Sale of space needed to meet requirements.

    19.76.140      Private garage or carport—Reduced yards.

    19.76.190      Height limitations—Exceptions.

    19.76.200      Additional height allowed when.

    19.76.210      Off-site improvements.

    19.76.290      Single-family or two-family dwellings—Standards.

    19.80.040      Number of spaces required.




Chapter 19.32 - R-2-6.5, R-2-8, R-2-10 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONES



19.32.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the R-2 zones is to establish low to medium density residential neighborhoods which
provide persons who reside therein a comfortable, healthy, safe and pleasant environment.




19.32.020 - Permitted uses.



                                                                                                    Page 76
    Permitted uses in the R-2 zones are as follows:

  Zone                                              Permitted Uses

R-2-6.5, — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use provided the total
R-2-8, R- square footage of all accessory buildings does not exceed eight hundred square feet on lots
  2-10    under one-half acre or one thousand two hundred square feet on lots one-half acre or larger;

           —Agriculture;

           —Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;

           —Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

           —Household pets;

           —Residential facility for elderly persons;

           —Residential facility for persons with a disability;

           —Single-family dwelling;

           —Two-family dwelling.




19.32.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-2 zones are as follows:

 Zone                                              Conditional Uses

R-2-6.5, —Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a conditional use. Any accessory
 R-2-8, building or buildings where the total square footage exceeds eight hundred square feet on lots
R-2-10 under one-half acre or one thousand two hundred square feet on lots one-half acre or larger;

          —Cemetery;

          —Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;

          —Dwelling group.

          A. The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the zone in which it



                                                                                               Page 77
is located.

B. The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required
in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer the distance between the
principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, if the difference between ten feet and the
required side yards is maintained as permanently landscaped open space elsewhere on the
site. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line shall be at
least fifteen feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that the yard required for a
principal building in the district in which it is located is more appropriate. The distance between
the building and a public street shall be at least the front yard required in the zoning district,
except on corner lots the side yard which faces on a public street shall be at least twenty feet.

C. Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; such
private street or right-of-way shall be at least twenty feet wide for one or two rear dwelling units
and at least thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling units.

D. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking spaces
and vehicular maneuvering areas shall meet county standards.

E. Every dwelling structure in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access
roadway or drive.

F. The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.
Solid visual fences shall be provided along all interior property lines unless the planning
commission approves otherwise.

—Golf course;

—Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

—Nursery and greenhouse, provided that there is no retail sales;

—Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;

—Planned unit development;

—Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
in public schools;

—Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;

—Public and quasi-public uses;

—Short-term rental provided:




                                                                                            Page 78
           —A. The dwelling unit is located in a single-family or two-family dwelling, but not located in a
           planned unit development or dwelling group; and

           —B. The site has frontage on a street with an existing or proposed right-of-way of at least
           sixty-six feet, as identified on the map entitled "Road Widening and Improvement Map" on file
           with the development services division and such map is made by this reference, as such, a
           part of this title as if fully described and detailed herein;

           —Sportsman's kennel with a minimum lot area of one acre;

           —Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
           removed upon the completion of the construction work. If such buildings are not removed
           within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after notice, the
           building will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner.

 R-2-10    —Bed and breakfast homestay.




19.32.040 - Lot areas and widths.

     The minimum lot area and width requirements are as follows:

Zone                                 Minimum Lot Area                                   Minimum Lot Width

     4,000 square feet for a lot containing 1 unit of a two-family dwelling 6,000      60 feet at a distance
R-2-
     square feet for a single-family dwelling 6,500 square feet for a two-family       25 feet from the front
6.5
     dwelling 8,000 square feet for any other main building                            lot line

                                                                                       65 feet at a distance
        4,000 square feet for a lot containing 1 unit of a two-family dwelling 8,000
R-2-8                                                                                  30 feet from the front
        square feet for any other main building
                                                                                       lot line

R-2- 5,000 square feet for a lot containing 1 unit of a two-family dwelling 10,000
                                                                                   Same as above
 10 square feet for any other main building




19.32.050 - Yards.

A.   Dwellings: The minimum yard requirements for a private garage or single or two-family dwelling unit
     are as follows:


                                                                                                      Page 79
                                                                           Minimum Side
            Minimum                                                                            Minimum Rear
 Zone                           Minimum Side Yard (Interior)               Yard (Facing a
           Front Yard                                                                              Yard
                                                                            public street)

                        8 feet, however, no side yard setback is
                                                                                             With garage: 15
 R-2-                   required from the property line dividing two
          25 feet                                                        20 feet             feet Without
 6.5                    units of a two family dwelling subdivided
                                                                                             garage: 30 feet
                        under 19.32.090

R-2-8,
       30 feet          Same as above                                                        Same as above
R-2-10




B.     Accessory Buildings: The minimum yard requirements for an accessory building, which may include
       a private garage that does not meet the setback requirements listed in subsection A above, are as
       follows:

                                    Minimum       Minimum Side
                Minimum Front
 Zone                               Side Yard     Yard (Facing a                   Minimum Rear Yard
                     Yard
                                    (Interior)     public street)

         Must be in the rear                                           1 foot, except lots which rear upon the
R-2-6.5,
         yard and 6 feet                                               side yard of an adjacent lot, in which
 R-2-8,                           1 foot         20 feet
         away from the                                                 case the minimum setback shall be 10
R-2-10
         dwelling                                                      feet from the adjoining side yard.




C.     The minimum yard requirements for a main building other than residential are as follows:

         Zone            Minimum Front Yard            Minimum Side Yards               Minimum Rear Yard

       R-2-6.5                  25 feet                        20 feet                        30 feet

     R-2-8, R-2-10              30 feet                        20 feet                        30 feet




19.32.055 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments and dwelling groups shall be determined by the
planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following factors:



                                                                                                        Page 80
recommendations of county and non-county agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land
uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding, the planning commission shall
not approve a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

     Zone                      Single-Family Dwelling                       Two-Family Dwelling

    R-2-6.5                      7.0 units per acre                          12.0 units per acre

     R-2-8                       6.0 units per acre                          10.0 units per acre

    R-2-10                       5.0 units per acre                           8.0 units per acre




19.32.060 - Building height.

     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
following height (see Section 19.04.095(A) for definition of "height"):
    A.    Main Buildings.
         1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
              percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
              determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
              elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or
              structure. Said box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
              whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation
              shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
              of two feet.
         2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties.
         3.   No dwelling shall contain less than one story.
    B.    Accessory Buildings.
         1.   No building which is accessory to a one-family or two-family dwelling shall exceed twenty
              feet in height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set
              back from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




19.32.070 - Coverage of rear yards.

     No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five percent of
the rear yard.




19.32.080 - Informational.

    For additional information refer to the zoning ordinance and in particular the following sections:


                                                                                                    Page 81
    19.76.020       Occupancy permit.

    19.76.070       Division of a two-family dwelling.

    19.76.100       Sale of space needed to meet requirements.

    19.76.140       Private garage or carport—Reduced yards.

    19.76.190       Height limitations—Exceptions.

    19.76.200       Additional height allowed when.

    19.76.210       Off-site improvements.

    19.76.290       Single-family or two-family dwellings—Standards.

    19.80.040       Number of spaces required.




19.32.090 - Division of two-family dwelling.

   A lot containing a two-family dwelling may be subdivided, creating a new lot line along the shared
common wall and extending to the front and rear property lines, subject to the following conditions:
     A.   The minimum area of the lot containing each unit shall be four thousand square feet in the R-2-
          6.5 and R-2-8 zones, and five thousand square feet in the R-2-10 zone.
     B.   The division of ground is subject to the requirements of the Salt Lake County Subdivision
          Ordinance (Title 18).
     C.    The subdivision plat shall specifically note that the purpose of the subdivision is to
          accommodate the division of a two-family dwelling.




Chapter 19.38 - R-2-10C RESIDENTIAL ZONE



19.38.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the R-2-10C zone is to provide neighborhoods in the canyon areas of the county for
low-density residential development.




                                                                                                 Page 82
19.38.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the R-2-10C zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets; the keeping of not more than four horses for private use only and not for
    rental;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
         — Single-family dwelling;
         — Two-family dwelling.




19.38.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-2-10C zone include:
         — Airport;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay;
         — Cemetery, etc.;
          — Chickens, ducks, geese or other fowl totaling not more than fifty fowl on any one lot; four
    horses on one lot, provided that no horses may be kept on any lot less than one acre, and no corral
    or stable for keeping of horses may be closer to a public street or to any dwelling than one hundred
    feet;
         — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
         — Dwelling group.
         A.   The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group, as defined in Section 19.04.190, is to be
              erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum lot areas otherwise
              required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures in the group.
         B.   The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required
              in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer the distance between
              the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that the difference between
              ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as permanently landscaped open space
              elsewhere on the site. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter
              lot line shall not be less than fifteen feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that
              the yard required for a principal building in the district in which it is located is more
              appropriate. The distance between the building and a public street shall be not less than
              the front yard required in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which
              faces on a public street shall be not less than twenty feet.
         C.    Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; such
              private street or right-of-way shall not be less than twenty feet wide for one or two rear
              dwelling units, and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
         D.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking spaces
              and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with county standards.



                                                                                                  Page 83
         E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway or
              drive.
         F.   The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.
              Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless the planning
              commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence requirement.
         G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the county
              fire chief before final approval is given by the planning commission.
         — Golf course;
         — Guest house;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Home occupation;
         — Nursery and greenhouse, provided that there is no retail shop operated in connection
    therewith;
         — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
    in public schools;
         — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
         — Public and quasi-public uses;
         — Short-term rental provided:
         A.   The dwelling unit is located in a single-family or two-family dwelling, but not located in a
              planned unit development or dwelling group; and
         B.   The site has frontage on a street with an existing or proposed right-of-way of at least sixty-
              six feet, as identified on the map entitled "Road Widening and Improvement Map" on file
              with the development services division and such map is made by this reference, as such, a
              part of this title as if fully described and detailed herein;
         — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
    removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after notice, the
    buildings will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner.




19.38.040 - Lot area.

      The minimum lot area in the R-2-10C zone shall be not less than ten thousand square feet, except
that the minimum area for any lot which is being used for horses shall be one-half acre.




19.38.050 - Lot width.

     The minimum width of any lot in the R-2-10C zone shall be seventy-five feet, at a distance fifteen
feet back from the front lot line.



                                                                                                   Page 84
19.38.060 - Front yard.

      In the R-2-10C zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private garages
which have a minimum side yard of five feet, shall be fifteen feet for lots facing on a state highway, and
five feet for lots facing on a county road. All accessory buildings, other than private garages which have a
minimum side yard, shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.




19.38.070 - Side yard.

      In the R-2-10C zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be five feet, and the total width of
the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings shall have a
minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two side yards shall be not less than forty
feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be five feet, except that private garages and other
accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from the main building may have a
minimum side yard of one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory building shall be
located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on
a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be not less than fifteen feet on state highways or five
feet on other streets.




19.38.080 - Rear yard.

    In R-2-10C zones, the minimum rear yard for a main building shall be twenty-five feet, and for
accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side of another lot,
accessory buildings shall be located not closer than five feet to such side yard.




19.38.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
     following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent or
          the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
          drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
          box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The box shall extend for a
          distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of
          the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
          with a maximum contour interval of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a one-family or two-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in
          height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from
          property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




                                                                                                    Page 85
Chapter 19.40 - R-4-8.5 RESIDENTIAL ZONE



19.40.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the R-4-8.5 zone is to provide neighborhoods in the county for medium-density
residential development.




19.40.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the R-4-8.5 zone include:
         — Agriculture;
         — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets;
         — Residential development with a maximum number of two dwelling units per structure per lot;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability.




19.40.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-4-8.5 zone include:
         — Airport;
        — Bed and breakfast homestay (provided it is located on a lot which has a minimum area of ten
    thousand square feet);
         — Bed and breakfast inn;
         — Boardinghouse;
         — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
         — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
         — Dental clinic;
         — Dwelling group.
         A.   The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the R-4-8.5 zone.
         B.   The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required
              in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer the distance between
              the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that the difference between
              ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as permanently landscaped open space
              elsewhere on the site. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter
              lot line shall not be less than fifteen feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that



                                                                                                  Page 86
         the yard required for a principal building in the district in which it is located is more
         appropriate. The distance between the building and a public street shall be not less than
         the front yard required in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which
         faces on a public street shall be not less than twenty feet.
    C.    Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; such
         private street or right-of-way shall be not less than twenty feet wide for one or two rear
         dwelling units, and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
    D.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking spaces
         and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with county standards.
    E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway or
         drive.
    F.   The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.
         Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless the planning
         commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence requirement.
    G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the county
         fire chief before final approval is given by the planning commission.
    — Four-family dwellings;
    — Fraternity house;
    — Golf course;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Medical clinic, excluding animal hospital and clinic;
    — Mobile home park;
    — Nursery and greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
    — Nursing home;
    — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
    — Planned unit development;
     — Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
in public schools;
    — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    — Public and quasi-public uses;
    — Short-term rental provided:
    A.   A full-time manager lives on the property. The full-time manager may be the owner of the
         property; and
    B.   Except for the manager's dwelling unit, all of the dwelling units on the property, lot, planned
         unit development, or dwelling group shall be rental units, short-term or long-term.
    — Sorority house;
    — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
     — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after notice, the
buildings will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;
    — Three-family dwellings.



                                                                                               Page 87
19.40.040 - Lot area.

     The minimum lot area in the R-4-8.5 zone shall be not less than six thousand square feet for each
one-family dwelling or six thousand five hundred square feet for each two-family dwelling, with one
thousand square feet, additional, required for each additional building unit, and not less than eight
thousand square feet for any main building other than dwellings.




19.40.050 - Lot width.

    The minimum width of any lot in the R-4-8.5 zone shall be sixty feet, at a distance twenty-five feet
back from the front lot line.




19.40.060 - Front yard.

     In the R-4-8.5 zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private garages
which have a minimum side yard of eight feet, shall be twenty-five feet or the average of the existing
buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed; but in no case less than fifteen feet, or
be required to be more than twenty feet.




19.40.070 - Side yard.

      In the R-4-8.5 zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and the total width of
the two required side yards shall not be less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings shall have a
minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than
forty feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private garages and
other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from the main building may have a
minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory building
shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which
faces on a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet or the average
of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less than
fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.




19.40.080 - Rear yard.

      In R-4-8.5 zones, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any main building shall be thirty feet, and
for accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another
lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.




19.40.090 - Building height.




                                                                                                    Page 88
A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
     following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent or
          the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
          drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
          box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The box shall extend for a
          distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of
          the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
          with a maximum contour interval of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a one-family, two-family, or three-family dwelling shall exceed
          twenty feet in height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set
          back from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




19.40.100 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments and dwelling groups shall be determined by the
planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following factors:
recommendations of county and non-county agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land
uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding, the planning commission shall
not approve a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

                  Single-family dwellings                   7.0 units per acre

                   Two-family dwellings                                   12.0 units per acre

                  Three-family dwellings                                  15.0 units per acre

                  Four-family dwellings                                   18.0 units per acre




Chapter 19.42 - S-1-G RESIDENTIAL ZONE



19.42.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the S-1-G zone is to permit extraction of gravel and similar natural resources in the
county.




                                                                                                    Page 89
19.42.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the S-1-G zone include:
          — Agriculture.




19.42.030 - Conditional uses.

     Conditional uses in the S-1-G zone include:
          — Golf course;
           — Mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers, concrete batching plants used in connection with
     and as a part of an operation for the removal of sand or gravel from the parcel of property upon
     which the crusher or batching plant is installed, but expressly excluding an asphalt plant or any type
     of oil or asphalt emulsion mixing operation. Excavations are permitted only under the conditions
     outlined in the Salt Lake County excavation ordinance;
          — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
          — Public and quasi-public uses;
          — Recreation, commercial;
          — Residential facility for elderly persons;
          — Single-family dwelling;
          — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
     removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
     removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after notice, the
     buildings will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner.




19.42.040 - Lot area.

     The minimum lot area in the S-1-G zone shall be not less than one-half acre.




19.42.050 - Lot width.

    The minimum width of any lot in the S-1-G zone shall be one hundred feet, at a distance thirty feet
back from the front lot line.




19.42.060 - Front yard.

     In the S-1-G zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private garages
which have a minimum side yard of ten feet, shall be thirty feet, or the average of the existing buildings
where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, provided that in no case shall the front yard be
less than twenty feet or be required to be more than thirty feet. All accessory buildings, other than private
garages which have a side yard of at least ten feet, shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main
building.


                                                                                                      Page 90
19.42.070 - Side yard.

      In the S-1-G zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be ten feet, and the total width of the
two required side yards shall not be less than twenty-four feet. Other main buildings shall have a
minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than
forty feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be ten feet, except that private garages and
other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from the main building may have a
minimum side yard of one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory building shall be
located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on
a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet, or the average of
existing buildings where more than fifty percent of the frontage is developed, but in no case shall the side
yard be less than twenty feet.




19.42.080 - Rear yard.

    In S-1-G zones, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any building shall be thirty feet, and for
accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot,
accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.




19.42.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
     following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent or
          the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
          drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
          box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The box shall extend for a
          distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of
          the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
          with a maximum contour interval of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in height. For
          each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines
          an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




Chapter 19.44 - R-M RESIDENTIAL ZONE



19.44.010 - Purpose of provisions.




                                                                                                    Page 91
     The purpose of the R-M zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for high-density
residential development.




19.44.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the R-M zone include:
         — Agriculture;
         — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets;
         — Residential development, with a maximum number of two units per structure per lot;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons.




19.44.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-M zone include:
         — Airport;
         — Apartments;
         — Apartments for elderly persons;
         — Banks;
        — Bed and breakfast homestay (provided it is located on a lot which has a minimum area of ten
    thousand square feet);
         — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include conference meeting rooms;
         — Boardinghouse;
         — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Dwelling group.
         A.   The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the R-M zone.
         B.   The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required
              in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer the distance between
              the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that the difference between
              ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as permanently landscaped open space
              elsewhere on the site. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter
              lot line shall not be less than fifteen feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that
              the yard required for a principal building in the district in which it is located is more
              appropriate. The distance between the building and a public street shall be not less than
              the front yard required in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which
              faces on a public street shall be not less than twenty feet.
         C.    Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; such
              private street or right-of-way shall not be less than twenty feet wide for one or two rear
              dwelling units, and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling units.


                                                                                                  Page 92
        D.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking spaces
             and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with countymetro township
             standards.
        E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway or
             drive.
        F.   The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.
             Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless the planning
             commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence requirement.
        G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the
             countymetro township fire chief before final approval is given by the planning commission.
        — Electrolysis of hair;
        — Golf course;
        — Gymnastics, dance, dramatic, cosmetic, modeling and art studios for instructional purposes
only;
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
        — Hospital;
        — Hotel;
        — Lodginghouse;
        — Massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
     — Medical, optical and dental laboratories, but not to include the manufacture of pharmaceutical
or other products for general sale or distribution, and also not to include the use of animals;
        — Mobile home park;
        — Nursery and greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
        — Nursing home;
        — Office, business and/or professional;
        — Parking lot;
        — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
        — Planned unit development;
     — Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
in public schools;
        — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
        — Public and quasi-public uses;
        — Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
        A.   The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific development
             proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
        B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
        C.   Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
        D.   Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a public
             street.
        E.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.




                                                                                                Page 93
    F.   The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be twenty feet
         minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
    G.   The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of the
         building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the planning
         commission.
    H.    The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on
         projected transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning
         Commission Exceptions."
    I.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit Mixed-
         Use Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The planning
         commission has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary during
         development review.
    — Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
    — Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
    B.    Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt
         LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township business license.
    C.   Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or semi-
         nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code; and
    D.   The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501 of the
         Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the
         Utah Criminal Code.
     — Residential development with any number of dwelling units per structure per lot, pursuant to
Section 19.44.040;
    — Shared parking;
    — Short-term rental provided:
    A.   A full-time manager lives on the property. The full-time manager may be the owner of the
         property; and
    B.   Except for the manager's dwelling unit, all of the dwelling units on the property, lot, planned
         unit development, or dwelling group shall be rental units, short-term or long-term.
    — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
    — Tanning studio;
      — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the buildings
will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the owner;
    — Veterinary; provided, that:
    A.   The operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned soundproofed building. The
         noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line,
    B.   There is no sale of merchandise on the premises, and
    C.    There is no overnight boarding of animals.




                                                                                                 Page 94
19.44.040 - Lot area.

      The minimum lot area in the R-M zone shall be five thousand square feet for each one-family
dwelling, with seven hundred fifty additional square feet for each additional dwelling unit in a dwelling
structure having more than one dwelling unit. For group dwellings, the minimum lot area shall be not less
than five thousand square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three thousand square feet for
each additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty square feet additional for each
additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each separate dwelling structure, not less than
five thousand square feet for any other main building.




19.44.050 - Lot width.

     The minimum width of any lot in the R-M zone shall be fifty feet, at a distance twenty-five feet back
from the front lot line.




19.44.060 - Front yard.

      In the R-M zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private garages
which have a minimum side yard of eight feet, shall be twenty-five feet or the average of the existing
buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet.
Other private garages and all accessory buildings, other than private garages, shall be located at least six
feet in the rear of the main building.




19.44.070 - Side yard.

      In the R-M zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and the total width of the
two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings shall have a minimum
side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two yards shall be not less than forty feet. The minimum
side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private garages and other accessory
buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from the main building shall have a minimum side
yard of not less than one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory building shall be located
closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street,
for both main and accessory buildings, shall be not less than twenty feet, or the average of existing
buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet, or
be required to be more than twenty feet. Dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one
foot of additional side yard on each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds thirty-five
feet in height.




19.44.080 - Rear yard.

    In R-M zones, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any building shall be thirty feet, and for
accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot,
accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.




                                                                                                     Page 95
19.44.090 - Coverage restrictions.

     No building or group of buildings in an R-M zone, with their accessory buildings, shall cover more
than sixty percent of the area of the lot.




19.44.100 - Building height.

A.    No building or structure in an R-M zone shall contain more than six stories or exceed seventy-five
     feet in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in height. For each foot of
          height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines an additional
          foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




19.44.110 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following
factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township agencies; site
constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan.
Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with
density higher than the following:

                Single-family dwellings                 7.0 units per acre

Two-family dwellings                                    12.0 units per acre

Three-family dwellings                                  15.0 units per acre

Four-family dwellings                                   18.0 units per acre

Multi-family dwellings                                  25.0 units per acre*

Rail transit mixed-use                                  No maximum density




* Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to be
compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which incorporates
innovations of design, amenities, and features, may be approved by the planning commission for higher
densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0 units per acre.




                                                                                                   Page 96
Chapter 19.45 - O-R-D OFFICE RESEARCH PARK AND DEVELOPMENT ZONE



19.45.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the O-R-D zone is to provide an aesthetically attractive environment for offices,
research facilities, environmentally appropriate fabrication and assembly uses and accessory uses. This
zone is intended to insure compatibility of new development with the surrounding land uses through
standards that provide an open campus-like setting with attractive buildings, park-like grounds, and other
appropriate amenities supporting employee activity. Specific measures to mitigate impacts of
development will be required at the time of design and site plan approval.




19.45.020 - Design and site plan approval.

      Design and site plan approval for all development is a conditional use pursuant to the requirements
of Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title. The conditional use review shall include but not be
limited to architectural design and theme, building materials, lighting, signage, parking, vehicular, bike
and pedestrian access, accessory structures, helicopter pads, nuisance factors and natural and
manmade hazards. Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




19.45.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted or conditional use,
    excluding:
         A.   Processing and compounding of raw materials or food products, and
         B.   Samples of products for display or in conjunction with sales which are not assembled or
              manufactured on the premises, and
         C.   Microwave antennae (see conditional uses), and
         D.   Retail commercial accessory uses (see conditional uses);
         — Agriculture;
         — Bank or financial institution;
         — Copy service;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Facilities for the furnishing of meals and sale of refreshments and personal convenience
    items to the employees or visitors of such establishments, and located within the building served;
         — Medical, optical and dental laboratories;
         — Office, business or professional;
         — Office supply;
         — Optometrist and/or oculist located within an office building;
         — Pharmacy located within an office building;



                                                                                                  Page 97
           — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings shall be
     removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
     removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the buildings
     will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner.




19.45.040 - Conditional uses.

     Conditional uses include:
         — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
         — Class B beer outlet;
          — Fabrication, assembly and treatment of articles of merchandise from previously prepared
     precious or semiprecious metals or stones;
          — Fabrication, assembly and maintenance of business machines and/or electronic instruments,
     excluding processing and compounding of raw materials;
         — Hotel;
          — Laboratory (other than those listed as a permitted use) which may include scientific research,
     investigation, testing or experimentation including prototype product development or incidental pilot
     plants;
         — Living quarters for caretaker, guard or night watchman;
         — Microwave antennae;
         — Medical supplies assembly;
         — Private educational institution;
         — Private nonprofit locker club;
         — Private school related to research and development;
         — Public and quasi-public uses;
         — Radio and/or television station;
         — Restaurant, excluding drive-through or take-out service;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Retail commercial uses accessory to and/or supporting a permitted use or conditional use;
         — Shared parking;
         — Other uses of similar intensity to the above as determined by the planning commission.




19.45.050 - Hours of operation.

A.   Retail commercial uses shall only be open for business between six a.m. and eleven p.m. unless the
     planning commission approves additional hours.
B.    Commercial garbage and rubbish collection shall only occur between seven a.m. and six p.m. if
     there is a residential zone or residential use within three hundred feet of the collection point.




                                                                                                  Page 98
19.45.060 - Outside storage not permitted.

     Outside storage of any stock, motor vehicles (other than parking for employee and visitor vehicles),
or other property is not permitted.




19.45.070 - Project area.

    The project area shall be a minimum of ten acres, but this requirement does not preclude separate
ownership of buildings.




19.45.080 - Yard requirements.

    The minimum yard requirements for all main and accessory buildings are as follows:
    A.    Front yard: fifty feet;
    B.    Side yard:
         1.    Fifty feet if adjacent to a residential or agricultural zone, or facing on a street. The side yard
               shall be increased at least one foot for each additional foot of building height above thirty
               feet;
         2.    Thirty feet if adjacent to other zones.
    C.    Rear yard:
         1.    Fifty feet if adjacent to a residential or agricultural zone, or facing on a street. The rear yard
               shall be increased at least one foot for each additional foot of building height above thirty
               feet;
         2.    Thirty feet if adjacent to other zones.




19.45.090 - Building height.

     The maximum height of a building or structure shall be two stories. The planning commission may
allow additional height to a maximum of six stories where it is determined that additional height will not
adversely impact the surrounding land uses. The planning commission may reduce the height allowed at
locations where a reduction in height is necessary to minimize the impact on surrounding land uses.




19.45.100 - Coverage restrictions.

    A building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall not cover more than twenty-five
percent of the project area.




19.45.110 - Perimeter wall.




                                                                                                        Page 99
A.    All uses shall have a decorative tinted concrete or masonry wall along all rear and side yards not
     fronting on a public street, which abut a residentially or agriculturally zoned property or a residential
     use. This requirement may be waived by the planning commission upon a determination that the wall
     is not necessary to buffer the adjacent use. Such walls shall not be located in the required setback
     from a public street.
B.   All perimeter walls shall be a minimum of six feet high unless the planning commission requires a
     higher wall as part of the conditional use approval.
C.    The planning commission may allow appropriate access to trails, creeks, or other open space
     amenities.




19.45.120 - Landscaping.

     Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




19.45.130 - Lighting.

A.    Uniformity of lighting is desirable to achieve an overall objective of continuity, and to avoid
     objectionable glare.
B.   The maximum height of luminaries shall be eighteen feet unless the planning commission requires a
     lower height as part of the conditional use approval. The light shall be low intensity, shielded from
     uses on adjoining lots, and directed away from adjacent property in a residential or agricultural zone
     or an adjacent residential or agricultural use.
C.   All parking luminaries, except those required for security, shall be extinguished one hour after the
     end of business hours. The exception for security lighting applies to a maximum of twenty-five
     percent of the total luminaries used, unless the planning commission approves a higher percentage.
D.   Pedestrian walkways to mass transit facilities shall be lighted.




19.45.140 - Nuisance factors and hazards.

    Operations shall not be conducted which emit offensive or objectionable noise, vibration, smoke,
odors, dust or gases, air pollution, water pollution or generates heavy truck traffic. Precautions shall be
taken in all operations against radiation, radioactivity, fire and explosion hazards.
     A.    Activities conducted on the premises shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and
          regulations and permits.
     B.    The noise level emanating from any use or operation shall not exceed the limits in the health
          department health regulation number twenty-one, or its successor, regarding noise control. The
          noise level shall not in any case exceed five decibels above the ambient level of the area
          measured at the property line. For the purposes of compliance with health regulation number
          twenty-one all properties located within an office research park and development zone shall be
          considered residential.
     C.   A use shall be not permitted which creates objectionable odor in such quantity as to be readily
          detectable at the boundaries of the site.




                                                                                                    Page 100
19.45.150 - Screening.

A.   All trash or refuse receptacle areas shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by a
     masonry wall that is a minimum of six feet high or shall be enclosed within a building. Any trash or
     refuse receptacle area shall be a minimum of fifty feet from any residential or agricultural zone
     boundary or property containing a residential or agricultural use.
B.   All ground mounted mechanical equipment including, but not limited to, heating and air conditioning
     units shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by a masonry wall or shall be
     enclosed within a building.
C.    The use of roof appurtenances is discouraged. If roof appurtenances including, but not limited to, air
     conditioning units and mechanical equipment are used, they shall be placed within an enclosure at
     least as high as the roof appurtenances that reflects the architectural design scheme of the project
     and complies with the requirements for penthouses and roof structures of the Uniform Building Code,
     as adopted by the state. Such enclosures require planning commission approval, and shall minimize
     visibility from on-site parking areas, adjacent public streets, and adjacent residentially or
     agriculturally zoned property. The planning commission may require that the enclosure have a roof
     when it determines that a roofed enclosure is necessary to meet the objectives of this section.
D.    All utility connections shall be compatible with the architectural elements of the site and not be
     exposed except where necessary. Pad-mounted transformers and/or meter box locations shall be
     included in the site plan with an appropriate screening treatment. Power lines and other utility cables
     shall be installed underground where possible.
E.    Loading areas and docks shall be screened from public view as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this
     title.




19.45.160 - Access and parking.

A.   The number of access points along public streets shall be minimized by sharing and linking parking
     areas with adjacent properties. Reciprocal ingress and egress, circulation and parking agreements
     shall be required to facilitate the ease of vehicular movement between adjoining properties. On
     corner sites access points shall be located as far from the corner as reasonably possible and in no
     case less than sixty feet from the point of intersection of the property lines. Vehicular circulation shall
     be designed to preclude the intrusion of traffic directly into residential or agricultural areas.
B.   Parking shall be located peripherally around the buildings rather than concentrated between the
     building and the public streets to allow the building to be closer to the mass transit facilities.
C.    Parking spaces for vanpool/carpool vehicles shall be provided and have a priority location near
     building entrances to encourage this form of mass transit.
D.   Parking shall not be located in the required front yard setback or the required side yard setback
     which faces on a street.




19.45.170 - Pedestrian walkways.

A.   Pedestrian walkways, a minimum of five feet wide, shall be provided to accommodate pedestrian
     movement between activity centers within the site, to adjacent uses and from building entrances
     directly to mass transit facilities.
B.   Public easements for walkways, jogging paths and similar uses may be required.




                                                                                                      Page 101
19.45.180 - Design considerations.

     In order to meet the purposes of the O-R-D zone, the planning commission shall consider the
following prior to approval of any plan:
    A.    The development shall provide on-site amenities and appropriate buffering to adjacent
         properties and uses.
    B.   The scale of the development shall be in character with the surrounding land uses.
    C.   Safe access shall be provided within the site and to public streets.




19.45.190 - Consistency with general plan.

    Development shall be consistent with the Salt Lake County General Plan.




Chapter 19.46 - RMH RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME ZONE



19.46.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the RMH zone is to provide appropriate areas for development of mobile home parks
and mobile home subdivisions that are compatible with neighborhoods in the county.




19.46.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the RMH zone include:
         — Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to a permitted use;
         — Agriculture;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets.




19.46.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the RMH zone include:
         — Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to a conditional use;
         — Home daycare/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293 of this title;
         — Home occupation;
         — Mobile home (in a mobile home park or in a mobile home subdivision only);



                                                                                              Page 102
         — Mobile home park that complies with Chapter 15.24 of this code, the mobile home ordinance;
         — Mobile home subdivision;
         — Pigeons, subject to the health department health regulations;
         — Planned unit development;
        — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction of mobile home park or mobile home
    subdivision. Such buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction
    work, or at such time specified.




19.46.040 - Mobile home park subdivision—Defined.

    "Mobile home park subdivision" means a subdivision of residential lots intended for the placement of
mobile homes under separate ownership.




19.46.050 - Lot area.

    In the RMH zone, the minimum area for the mobile home subdivision shall be five acres. No
minimum area per lot, provided the required yards for each mobile home can be created and maintained.




19.46.060 - Lot width.

    There is no minimum lot width in the RMH zone.




19.46.070 - Front yard.

    In the RMH zone, each mobile home shall sit back a minimum of seven feet, six inches from the front
property line.




19.46.080 - Side yard.

     In the RMH zone, each mobile home shall maintain a minimum of two seven-foot, six-inch side
yards. Awnings, patio covers, etc., shall not be closer than three feet from any side property lines. One
accessory storage building, not exceeding one hundred twenty cubic feet, is allowed in one side yard and
may be three feet from the property line. On corner lots, there shall be a minimum seven feet, six inches
of unobstructed yard space on the street side of the lot. (No parking, awnings, patios, storage sheds or
fences.)




19.46.090 - Rear yard.

    In the RMH zone, the minimum depth of the rear yard shall be ten feet.


                                                                                               Page 103
19.46.100 - Exceptions to yards.

     Any yard adjoining a public street must be twenty-five feet in the RMH zone.




19.46.110 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the RMH zone, the front yard, or any space within three feet of the side and rear property lines,
shall not be occupied, and shall be open and unobstructed to the sky. Lot coverage shall not exceed
seventy-five percent of the lot. "Occupied" means covered by a mobile home, garage, carport, cabana,
awning, storage building, or structure of any kind.




19.46.120 - Building height.

     In the RMH zone, no mobile home shall contain more than one story, or exceed twelve feet in height.
No accessory building (storage, garage, etc.) shall contain more than one story or exceed twelve feet in
height. Other main buildings (clubhouses, recreation buildings, etc.) shall not exceed twenty-five feet in
height.




19.46.130 - Mobile home subdivision standards and review.

     A mobile home subdivision shall follow the review and approval process, as outlined in the Salt Lake
County subdivision ordinance. Public streets shall meet the standard outlined in the subdivision
ordinance. Private street standards shall be determined by conditional use review and approval.




19.46.140 - Maintenance—Owner's association responsibility.

       Maintenance of all areas and improvements owned in common by the lot owners, such as
clubhouses, common landscaped areas, recreation facilities, playgrounds, roads, sewer and water
utilities, and electrical systems, shall be the responsibility of an owner's association created with articles
of association and bylaws approved by the attorney.




Chapter 19.48 - A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE



19.48.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the A-1 zone is to provide areas in the county for low-density residential
development, together with limited agricultural uses.




                                                                                                    Page 104
19.48.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the A-1 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animals and fowl for family food production;
         — Apiary;
         — Aviary;
         — Farm devoted to the raising and marketing, on a commercial scale, of chickens, turkeys or
    other fowl or poultry, rabbits, chinchilla, beaver, nutria, fish or frogs;
         — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets;
         — Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep or goats, provided that such raising or grazing is
    not a part of, nor conducted in conjunction with, any livestock feedyard, livestock sales yard, animal
    byproduct business, or commercial riding academy;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
         — Single-family dwelling;
         — Worm farming (minimum lot area one acre).




19.48.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the A-1 zone include:
         — Airport;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay;
         — Campgrounds;
         — Cemetery;
         — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260 of this title;
         — Dwelling group.
         A.   The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the A-1 zone.
         B.   The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards required
              in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer, the distance between
              the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that the difference between
              ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as permanently landscaped open space
              elsewhere on the site. The distance between principal buildings and the nearest perimeter
              lot line shall not be less than fifteen feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that
              the yard required for a principal building in the district in which located is more appropriate.
              The distance between the building and a public street shall be not less than the front yard
              required in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which faces on a public
              street shall be not less than twenty feet.



                                                                                                    Page 105
          C.   Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; the private
               street or right-of-way shall not be less than twenty feet wide for one or two rear dwelling
               units and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
          D.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking spaces
               and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with county standards.
          E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway or
               drive.
          F.   The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.
               Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless the planning
               commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence requirement.
          G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the county
               fire chief before final approval is given by the planning commission.
          — Fruit and/or vegetable stand, provided that the products are produced on the premises;
          — Golf course;
          — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Milk processing and sale, provided that at least fifty percent of the milk processed or sold is
     produced on the premises;
          — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
          — Nursing home;
          — Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
          — Planned unit development;
          — Plant for storage or packing of fruit or vegetables produced on the premises;
          — Private educational institution having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
     in public schools;
          — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
          — Public and quasi-public uses;
          — Radio and television transmitting and relay station and tower, excluding business office or
     studio, except such control room studio facilities as required for emergency broadcasts in the event
     of a national or local disaster;
          — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
           — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
     removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
     removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the buildings
     will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;
          — Two-family dwelling.




19.48.040 - Lot area.

     In the A-1 zone, the minimum lot area for any dwelling, school, church, greenhouse, aviary or apiary,
or for the keeping of animals and fowl for family food production, shall be ten thousand square feet. The
minimum lot area for any fowl, poultry, rabbit, fish, chinchilla, beaver, nutria or frog farm, or for raising or
grazing horses, cattle, sheep or goats (except as permitted for family food production), or for packing or
storage plants, shall be one acre. The minimum lot area for radio and television transmitting and relay


                                                                                                      Page 106
stations and towers shall be four acres or more, such additional area to be sufficient to permit the
placement of towers in such a manner that side clearance in every direction from each and every tower
shall be equal to or greater than the height of the tower.




19.48.050 - Lot width.

      In the A-1 zone, the minimum width of any lot which is required by this chapter to contain a minimum
area of ten thousand square feet shall be sixty-five feet. The minimum width of any lot which is required
by this chapter to contain a minimum area of one acre shall be one hundred feet. The minimum width of
any lot which is required by this chapter to contain a minimum area of four acres shall be two hundred
feet, provided that the minimum width shall be increased above two hundred feet to the extent necessary
to give side clearance in every direction from the base of any tower to be constructed equal to the height
of the tower.




19.48.060 - Front yard.

      In A-1 zones, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings and for private garages which
have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be thirty feet, or the average of the existing buildings where
fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, provided that in no case shall the front yard be less
than twenty feet, or be required to be more than thirty feet. All accessory buildings, other than private
garages which have a side yard of at least eight feet, shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the
main building.




19.48.070 - Side yard.

A.   Dwellings and Accessory Buildings. In the A-1 zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be
     eight feet, and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet. The
     minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private garages and other
     accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from the main building shall be a
     minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory
     building shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side
     yard which faces on a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet,
     or the average of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no
     case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.
B.   Other Buildings. The minimum side yard shall be ten feet, and the total width of the two required side
     yards shall be not less than twenty feet. Minimum side yard provisions of this section shall apply to
     all structures, including guy wires for the support of any towers constructed under this chapter.




19.48.080 - Rear yard.

    In the A-1 zone, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any main building shall be thirty feet, and for
accessory buildings one foot; provided, that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot,
accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.




                                                                                                    Page 107
19.48.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
     following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent or
          the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
          drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
          box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The box shall extend for a
          distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of
          the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
          with a maximum contour interval of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in height. For each foot of
          height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines an additional
          foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




19.48.100 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments and dwelling groups shall be determined by the
planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following factors:
recommendations of county and non-county agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land
uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding, the planning commission shall
not approve a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

Single-family dwellings                                       4.0 units per acre

Two-family dwellings                                          8.0 units per acre




19.48.110 - Division of two-family dwelling.

   A lot containing a two-family dwelling may be subdivided, creating a new lot line along the shared
common wall and extending to the front and rear property lines, subject to the following conditions:
     A.   The minimum area of the lot containing each unit shall be five thousand square feet.
     B.   The division of ground is subject to the requirements of the Salt Lake County Subdivision
          Ordinance (Title 18).
     C.    The subdivision plat shall specifically note that the purpose of the subdivision is to
          accommodate the division of a two-family dwelling.




                                                                                                   Page 108
Chapter 19.50 - A-2 AGRICULTURE ZONE



19.50.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the A-2 zone is to provide areas in the county for low-density residential development
and agricultural uses.




19.50.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the A-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animals and fowl for family food production;
         — Apiary;
         — Aviary;
        — Farm devoted to raising (including fattening as incident to raising), slaughtering, dressing and
    marketing on a commercial scale of chickens, turkeys or other fowl or poultry, rabbits, chinchilla,
    beaver, nutria, fish or frogs;
         — Fruit and vegetable storage and packing plant;
         — Grain storage elevator;
         — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets;
        — Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep or goats, including the supplementary feeding of
    such animals, providing that such raising or grazing is not part of nor conducted in conjunction with
    any livestock feed yard, livestock sales yard, slaughterhouse, animal byproduct business, or
    commercial riding academy;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
         — Single-family dwelling;
         — Sugar beet loading station and dump site;
         — Worm farming (minimum lot area, one acre).




19.50.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the A-2 zone include:
         — Agriculture experimental station;
         — Airport;
         — Animal hospital;



                                                                                                Page 109
    — Bed and breakfast homestay;
    — Campgrounds;
    — Cemetery, etc.;
    — Correctional institutions;
    — Dairy or creamery;
    — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
    — Dog breeding establishment; dog kennel; dog pound; dog training school;
    — Dude ranch;
    — Egg candling and sales;
     — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacturing, processing and sales, provided that no
objectionable odors are created;
    — Fruit and/or vegetable stand;
    — Fur farm;
    — Gasohol production for private use only, alcohol storage not to exceed two hundred gallons;
    — Golf course;
    — Gun club;
    — Hay chopping;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Livestock feed yard and/or sales yard;
    — Manure spreading, processing, drying and sales;
    — Milk processing and sales;
    — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
    — Nursing home;
    — Open storage, sales and rental of irrigation pipe;
    — Organic disposal site (minimum lot area, fifty acres);
    — Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
    — Planned unit development;
    — Plant for storage or packing of fruits or vegetables;
     — Private educational institution having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
in public schools;
    — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    — Public and quasi-public use;
    — Public stable;
      — Radio and television tower; radio transmitting station; business office; studio and relay
station;
    — Residential facility for elderly persons;
    — Riding academy;
    — Rodeo grounds;


                                                                                           Page 110
         — Sanitarium;
         — Slaughterhouse;
         — Soil composting manufacture and sales;
         — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area, one acre);
         — Stockyard;
          — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
    removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the buildings
    will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;
         — Veterinary.




19.50.040 - Lot area.

    The minimum lot area in the A-2 zone shall be one acre. For radio and television towers, see Section
19.48.040.




19.50.050 - Lot width.

    The minimum width of a lot in the A-2 zone shall be one hundred feet. For radio and television
towers, see Section 19.48.050.




19.50.060 - Front yard.

    The minimum depth of the front yard in A-2 zones shall be thirty feet.




19.50.070 - Side yard.

     In A-2 zones, the minimum side yard shall be ten feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces a
street shall be a minimum of twenty feet. For radio and television towers, see Section 19.48.070.




19.50.080 - Rear yard.

    The minimum depth of the rear yard in A-2 zones shall be thirty feet.




19.50.090 - Building height.

    None.



                                                                                                Page 111
19.50.100 - Coverage restrictions.

    In A-2 zones, no building or structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover
more than seventy percent of the lot area.




Chapter 19.52 - A-5, A-10 AND A-20 AGRICULTURAL ZONES



19.52.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones is to promote and preserve, in appropriate areas of the
county, conditions favorable to agriculture. To this end, the A districts are intended to include activities
normally related to agricultural uses and to protect the district from the intrusion of uses inimical to the
continuance of agricultural activity.




19.52.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones include:
          — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
          — Agriculture;
          — Apiary;
          — Aviary;
          — Farms devoted to raising (including fattening), slaughtering, dressing and marketing as
     incident to raising of chickens, turkeys or other fowl, rabbits, chinchilla, beaver, nutria, fish or frogs;
          — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
          — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
          — Household pets;
         — Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep or goats, including the supplementary feeding of
     such animals, providing that such raising or grazing is not part of nor conducted in conjunction with
     any livestock feed yard, livestock sales yard, slaughterhouse, animal byproduct business, or
     commercial riding academy;
          — Residential facility for elderly persons;
          — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
          — Single-family dwelling; ranch buildings and structures;
          — Sugar beet loading station and dump site;
          — Two-family dwelling;
          — Worm farming.




                                                                                                      Page 112
19.52.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones include:
           — Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to conditional uses;
           — Agriculture experimental station;
           — Airport;
           — Bed and breakfast homestay;
           — Cemetery;
           — Dairy or creamery, milk processing and sales of dairy products produced on the premises;
           — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
           — Dog breeding establishment; dog kennel, dog pound; dog training school;
           — Dude ranch;
           — Egg candling and sales of poultry products produced on the premises;
           — Fur farm;
           — Gasohol production for private use only, alcohol storage not to exceed two hundred gallons;
           — Golf course;
           — Gun club; hunting club;
           — Hay chopping;
           — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
           — Hog ranch;
           — Living quarters for persons employed on the premises;
           — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
           — Open storage, sales and rental of irrigation pipe;
           — Organic disposal site (minimum lot area, fifty acres);
           — Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
           — Plant for storage or packing of fruits or vegetables;
           — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
           — Public and quasi-public use;
           — Public stable; riding academy; rodeo grounds;
           — Radio and television tower; transmitting station; business office; studio and relay station;
           — Sanitary landfill;
           — Solar evaporation pond for the processing of salt;
           — Stands for the retail sales of products on the premises;
           — The following uses, provided they are a minimum of five hundred feet from any residential
    use:
           A.   Livestock feed yard and/or sales yard,
           B.    Manufacture of fertilizer and soil conditioner or compost processing and sales, provided
                that no objectionable odors are created,



                                                                                                    Page 113
           C.   Slaughterhouse; stockyard;
           — Veterinary.




19.52.040 - Lot area, width and yard regulations.

     The minimum lot area and lot width in the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones may include public or private
streets. The area in right-of-way shall not exceed twenty-five percent of the minimum lot area. Minimum
yard requirements will be measured from the right-of-way line.

    District          Lot Area            Lot Width             Front            Side             Rear

     A-20             20 acres               200 feet          50 feet          20 feet          50 feet

     A-10             10 acres               200 feet          50 feet          20 feet          50 feet

     A-5              5 acres                200 feet          50 feet          20 feet          50 feet




19.52.050 - Building height.

    Except as otherwise provided by the term of a conditional use permit, no structure in the A-5, A-10
and A-20 zones shall exceed a height equal to the distance between such structure and the nearest
property line of the parcel on which it is situated.




Chapter 19.54 - FA-2.5, FA-5, FA-10 AND FA-20 FOOTHILL AGRICULTURE ZONES



19.54.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the foothill agricultural zones is to permit the development of the foothill areas of the
county for rural residential, limited agricultural, limited animals and other specified uses, to the extent
such development is compatible with the natural environment of these areas, particularly the natural
slopes, vegetation, and fragile soils.




19.54.020 - Permitted uses.

     The following uses are permitted in the FA zones subject to meeting all applicable requirements set
forth in this chapter and ordinance relating to site and lot dimensions, development standards, and other
regulations.




                                                                                                   Page 114
    A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incident to a permitted use;
    B.   Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020 of this title;
    C.   Animals and fowl for family food production, as defined in Section 19.04.235; household pets; a
         maximum of four horses for private use only;
    D.   Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
    E.   Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in Section
         19.04.293;
    F.   Residential facility for persons with a disability;
    G.    Single-family dwelling;
    H.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, provided:
         1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility, and
         2.   The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and
         3.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of
              the required site plan, and
         4.   All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications
              Facilities," are satisfied.




19.54.030 - Conditional uses.

    The following conditional uses are subject to the requirements of this chapter and subject to the
conditions, criteria, and approval procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84, "Conditional Uses."
    A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use;
    B.   Bed and breakfast homestay, provided:
         1.    The access to the site and the on-site parking are available for use and maintained,
              including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
         2.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that is
              capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the health
              department prior to issuance of a license;
    C.   Home day care/preschool, for no fewer than seven nor more than twelve children, subject to the
         conditions set forth in Section 19.04.293;
    D.   Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
    E.    Planned unit development subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in Chapter
         19.78, "Planned Unit Developments";
    F.   Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    G.    Public and quasi-public use;
    H.   Residential facility for elderly persons;
    I.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which building must be removed
         upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
         removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after notice,
         the building will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;




                                                                                                 Page 115
       J.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, as that term and all related terms are defined in Section
            19.83.020, provided:
            1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is either a wall-mounted, roof-mounted, or
                 monopole facility. Facilities located on lattice towers are prohibited, and
            2.   Any grading for the facility, including access roads and trenching for utilities, shall comply
                 with the Uniform Building Code, and
            3.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in the foothills and
                 canyons overlay zone, Chapter 19.72, including development standards for grading,
                 wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, natural hazards, and utilities, and
                 standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
            4.   Site placement and facility color shall be carefully considered to blend in with the natural
                 surroundings, and
            5.   Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for monopole facilities,
                 and
            6.   The maximum height for monopole facilities shall be sixty feet, and
            7.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of
                 the required site plan and shall show all structures including but not limited to monopoles,
                 antennas, and equipment buildings, and
            8.   All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications
                 Facilities," are satisfied.




19.54.040 - Lot area, lot width, density, and slope regulations.

A.      Lot Width, Lot Area, and Density Requirements. In the foothill agricultural zones, the minimum lot
       area may include private rights-of-way, except that the area in the right-of-way shall not exceed
       twenty-five percent of the minimum lot area:

                                                                           Maximum Residential Density
 District        Minimum Lot Width           Minimum Lot Area
                                                                           (dwelling units per gross area)

 FA-2.5               250 feet                    2.5 acres                  1 d.u. per 2.5 gross acres

     FA-5             300 feet                     5 acres                    1 d.u. per 5 gross acres

 FA-10                300 feet                    10 acres                    1 d.u. per 10 gross acres

 FA-20                300 feet                    20 acres                    1 d.u. per 20 gross acres




B.     Measurement of Lot Width. The minimum lot width of any lot shall be measured at a distance of fifty
       feet from the front lot line.




                                                                                                       Page 116
C.    Slope Requirements. All development in the FA zones shall be subject to the slope protection
     standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030B, "Slope Protection
     Standards" and Section 19.72.030D, "Streets/Roads and General Site Access."




19.54.050 - Limits of disturbance/setbacks.

     Because of the unique nature of the soils and topography in the foothill areas, limits of disturbance
and setbacks for permitted uses including single-family dwellings and accessory structures in the FA
zones shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the development services director. Limits of
disturbance and setbacks for conditional uses shall be as approved by the planning commission upon the
recommendation of the development services director (see Chapter 19.72). All determinations of limits of
disturbance shall be subject to the conditions and criteria set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay
zone, Section 19.72.040, "Establishment of limits of disturbance."




19.54.060 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
     following heights:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the original slope exceeds fifteen percent or the property is located
          in the foothills and canyons overlay zone. For purposes of this section, the slope shall be
          determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation
          on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The
          box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around
          the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a
          certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval of two feet.
     2.   Thirty-five feet on all other properties.
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in height. For
          each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines
          an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




19.54.070 - Natural hazards.

      Construction of permanent structures in the FA zones in areas subject to natural hazards, including
floods, landslides, unstable soils, and avalanches, shall be subject to the requirements and limitations set
forth in Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75, "Natural Hazard Areas."




19.54.080 - Soils reports.

    Because of the fragile nature of the soils in some areas of the foothills within the FA zones, the
development services director or planning commission may require the applicant to submit a soils report
prepared by a qualified soils engineer to verify the suitability of soils for the intended use. If the property is



                                                                                                        Page 117
subject to the requirements set forth in Section 19.54.070 of this chapter, the soils report may be
combined with any required natural hazards report.




19.54.090 - Grading.

     To eliminate the possibility of erosion and unsightly scars on the foothill slopes, grading shall be
permitted only in conformance with the standards and limitations set forth in the foothills and canyons
overlay zone, Section 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards."




19.54.100 - Tree and vegetation protection.

     Removal of trees or natural vegetation shall not be permitted except in conformance with the
standards and requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030H,
"Tree and Vegetation Protection."




19.54.110 - Maintenance of animals and fowl.

     Animals and fowl shall be maintained in such a way to prevent dust, odors, loss of vegetation and
loss of topsoil due to erosion. In some areas due to the fragile soils and sparse vegetative cover, the
planning commission may require that all animals and fowl are kept in an enclosed area. At the time any
building permit is applied for, the planning commission may designate the areas of the lot suitable for
maintenance of animals and fowl.




19.54.120 - Utilities.

    All utilities in the FA zones shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for in Chapter
19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations."




19.54.130 - Building location, construction and design.

       All buildings and accessory structures in the FA zones, including single-family dwellings, shall be
located, constructed, and designed in compliance with the development standards set forth in the foothills
and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030, "Development standards," and in Chapter 19.73 of this
title, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."




19.54.140 - Site development plan approval.

      All development in the FA zone, including single-family dwellings, shall be approved prior to issuance
of any building permits pursuant to the site development plan approval process and requirements set
forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050, "Approval procedures for development
in the foothills and canyons overlay zone."


                                                                                                  Page 118
19.54.150 - Applicability to lots of record and waivers from slope requirements.

A.   Applicable to Lots of Record. All standards and requirements for development in the FA zones as set
     forth in this chapter shall apply to development on lots and in subdivisions that were recorded prior to
     the enactment date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
B.   Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FA zones also located in
     the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the planning commission may waive
     grade requirements for streets/roads and slope protection requirements for lots of record and lots
     and plans of subdivisions that were approved prior to the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the
     conditions and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060A are satisfied.




Chapter 19.55 - MD-1 AND MD-3 MIXED DEVELOPMENT ZONES



19.55.010 - Purpose of provisions.

      The purpose of the mixed use development zone is to provide a variety of uses (limited commercial,
office and residential) as an appropriate transition between high-traffic arterial streets and nearby
residential uses. This district is intended to ensure compatibility of new development and residential
conversions with existing and future residential development. It is also intended to ensure as well as
encourage assemblage of properties in a unified plan with a coordinated and harmonious development
which will promote outstanding design without unsightly and unsafe strip commercial development.
Specific measures to mitigate negative impacts of mixed use developments include standards for
perimeter walls, vehicular access, lighting, signage, etc., which will be required at the time of design and
site plan approval. Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




19.55.020 - Design and site plan approval.

     Design and site plan approval including, but not limited to, architecture, building materials, lighting,
signage, vehicular access and noise for all development in the MD-1 and MD-3 zones is required by the
planning commission as a conditional use pursuant to the requirements of Sections 19.84.020 through
19.84.130. Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




19.55.030 - Permitted uses.

A.   Permitted uses in the MD-1 zone include:
          — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use or a conditional use;
          — Agriculture;
          — Antique shop;
          — Art gallery;
          — Art needlework shop;



                                                                                                   Page 119
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Bank or financial institution;
         — Barber shop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay;
         — Boardinghouse;
         — China and/or silver shop;
         — Copy service;
         — Floral shop;
         — Gift shop;
         — Greeting card sales;
         — Handicraft shop;
         — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
         — Home occupation;
         — Household pets;
         — Key and lock service;
         — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
         — Medical, optical and dental labs;
         — Notions;
         — Office, business or professional;
         — Optometrist and/or oculist;
         — Parking lot;
         — Photographer;
         — Public and quasi-public uses;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
         — Stationery shop;
         — Tailor shop;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work.
B.   Permitted uses in the MD-3 zone include:
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use or a conditional use;

         — Agriculture;
         — Antique shop;
         — Art gallery;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;




                                                                                               Page 120
         — Bank or financial institution;
         — Barber shop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay;
         — Boardinghouse;
         — Bookstore;
         — China and/or silver service;
         — Copy service;
         — Floral shop;
         — Gift shop;
         — Greeting card sales;
         — Handicraft shop;
         — Health food store;
         — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
         — Household pets;
         — Key and lock service;
         — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
         — Medical, optical and dental labs;
         — Notions;
         — Office, business or professional;
         — Office supply;
         — Optometrist and/or oculist;
         — Parking lot;
         — Pharmacy;
         — Photographer;
         — Public and quasi-public uses;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Stationery shop;
         — Tailor shop;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work;
         — Travel bureau.




19.55.040 - Conditional uses.

A.   Conditional uses in the MD-1 zone include:
         — Bed and breakfast inn; which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;




                                                                                           Page 121
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Bookstore;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Health food store;
         — Laundry, automatic self-help type;
         — Lodginghouse;
         — Nursery and greenhouse excluding retail sales;
         — Nursing home;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private educational institution;
         — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
         — Reception center;
          — Residential uses with a maximum density of seven units/acre, including group dwellings,
     planned unit developments, apartments, multiple dwellings, etc.;
         — Restaurant, excluding fast-food or drive-through window;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Shared parking;
         — Shoe repair shop;
         — Short-term rental;
         — Tanning studio;
         — Veterinary, provided the operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned
     soundproofed building. The noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
         — Wedding chapel.
B.   Conditional uses in the MD-3 zone include:
         — Bed and breakfast inn; which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Bookstore;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Gymnastics, dance, dramatic, cosmetic, modeling and art studios;
         — Health food store;
         — Laundry, automatic self-help type;
         — Lodginghouse;
         — Mortuary;



                                                                                           Page 122
         — Music store;
         — Nursery and greenhouse;
         — Nursing home;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private educational institution;
         — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
         — Reception center;
         — Residential uses with a maximum density of twelve units/acre, including group dwellings,
    planned unit developments, apartments, multiple dwellings, etc.;
         — Restaurant, excluding fast-food or drive-through window;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Shared parking;
         — Shoe repair shop;
         — Short-term rental;
         — Tanning studio;
        — Veterinary, provided the operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned
    soundproofed building. The noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
         — Wedding chapel.




19.55.050 - Hours of operation.

    Commercial uses shall not be open for business before six a.m. or after eleven p.m.




19.55.060 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

     The uses specified in this chapter for the MD-1 and MD-3 zones shall be permitted only under the
following conditions:
    A.   No manufacturing is allowed;
    B.   No outside storage of any stock, motor vehicles or other property is allowed except for two
         delivery vehicles three-quarter ton or smaller.




19.55.070 - Area and width.

    In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones the minimum lot area and width shall be as follows:
    A.   MD-1 Zone.
         1.   Minimum lot area: one acre;
         2.   Minimum lot width: two hundred feet.



                                                                                            Page 123
     B.   MD-3 Zone.
          1.   Minimum lot area: three acres;
          2.   Minimum lot width: two hundred fifty feet.




19.55.080 - Yard requirements.

     In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones the minimum yard requirements for all main and accessory buildings
are as follows:
     A.   MD-1 Zone.
          1.   Front yard: thirty feet;
          2.   Side yard: thirty feet;
          3.   Rear yard: thirty feet.
     B.   MD-3 Zone.
          1.   Front yard: thirty feet;
          2.   Side yard: thirty feet;
          3.   Rear yard: thirty feet.
The planning commission may vary the yard requirements for conversion of an existing use to a mixed
development use.




19.55.090 - Building height.

A.   No building or structure located in an MD-1 zone shall contain more than one and one-half stories or
     exceed twenty feet in height.
B.   No building or structure located in an MD-3 zone shall contain more than three stories, except a
     building or structure located within fifty feet of a residential zone boundary line or a residential use
     shall not contain more than two stories.
C.   No residential building shall contain less than one story.
D.   The planning commission may vary the height requirements for conversion of an existing use to a
     mixed development use.




19.55.100 - Coverage restrictions.

    In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones no building or group of buildings with their accessory buildings, shall
cover more than forty percent of the area of the lot.




19.55.110 - Perimeter wall.




                                                                                                   Page 124
     All mixed use developments shall have a decorative tinted concrete or masonry wall on all rear and
side yards not fronting on a public street.
     All perimeter walls shall be a minimum of six feet high unless the planning commission requires a
higher wall as part of the conditional use approval.




19.55.120 - Landscaping.

     Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




19.55.130 - Lighting.

     The maximum height of luminaries shall be eighteen feet unless the planning commission requires a
lower height as part of the conditional use approval. The light shall be low intensity, shielded from uses on
adjoining lots, and directed away from adjacent property in a residential zone or an adjacent residential
use. All parking luminaries, except those required for security, must be extinguished one hour after the
end of business hours. The exception for security lighting applies to twenty-five percent of the total
luminaries used, unless the planning commission approves a higher percentage as part of the conditional
use approval.




19.55.140 - Noise.

     The noise level emanating from any use or operation shall not exceed the limits in the health
department health regulation number twenty-one, or its successor, regarding noise control. The noise
level shall not in any case exceed five decibels above the ambient level of the area measured at the
property line. For the purposes of compliance with health regulation number twenty-one all properties
located within a mixed development zone shall be considered residential.




19.55.150 - Screening.

     When off-street parking areas are situated across the street from a property in a residential zone, a
masonry wall or berm a minimum of three feet in height shall be erected in the landscaped front yard or
landscaped side yard which faces on a street on corner lots to adequately screen the parking areas from
the residential properties.
B.   All ground-mounted mechanical equipment including, but not limited to, heating and air conditioning
     units, and trash receptacle areas shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by a
     masonry wall or shall be enclosed within a building.
C.    The design of all roof appurtenances including, but not limited to, air conditioning units, and
     mechanical equipment shall be approved by the planning commission to minimize visibility from on-
     site parking areas, adjacent public street and adjacent residentially zoned property.
D.    All utility connections shall be designed to be compatible with the architectural elements of the site
     so as not to be exposed except where necessary. Pad-mounted transformers and/or meter box
     locations shall be included in the site plan with an appropriate screening treatment. Power lines and
     other utility cables shall be installed underground where possible.



                                                                                                   Page 125
19.55.160 - Access.

      The number of access points along public streets shall be minimized by sharing and linking parking
areas with adjacent properties. Reciprocal ingress and egress, circulation and parking agreements shall
be required to facilitate the ease of vehicular movement between adjoining properties. On corner sites
access points shall be located as far from the corner as reasonably possible and in no case less than
forty feet from the point of intersection of the property lines. Vehicular circulation shall be designed to limit
the intrusion of traffic into residential areas, and minimize access on streets used by schoolchildren.




19.55.170 - Odor.

    No use shall be permitted which creates odor in such quantity as to be readily detectable beyond the
boundaries of the site.




19.55.180 - Design considerations.

      In order to meet the purposes of this chapter the planning commission shall consider the following
prior to approval of any plan:
     A.    Lots should be accumulated to provide the minimum lot area. Individual lots with an area
          smaller than the minimum lot area are not suitable for a mixed development.
     B.    The development shall provided on-site amenities and appropriate buffering to adjacent
          properties and uses.
     C.   The scale of the development shall be in character with the surrounding land uses.
     D.   Safe access shall be provided within the site and to public streets.
     E.   The development shall have a residential character if adjacent to residential areas.




19.55.190 - Consistency with general plan.

     Mixed development uses shall be consistent with the county general plan.




Chapter 19.56 - C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.56.010 - Purpose of provisions.

   The purpose of the C-1 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for neighborhood
commercial development.




                                                                                                       Page 126
19.56.020 - Commercial developments over twenty-one thousand square feet.

    Commercial developments in the C-1 zone over twenty-one thousand square feet shall follow the
conditional use permit procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.




19.56.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-1 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Athletic goods store;
         — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
         — Bakery;
         — Bank;
         — Barbershop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Bookstore;
         — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
         — Candy store; confectionery;
         — China and/or silver shop;
         — Class A beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
         — Clothing store (limited to a maximum of three thousand square feet of total floor area);
         — Florist shop;
         — Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
         — Gift shop;
         — Greenhouse;
         — Health food store;
         — Ice cream shop;
         — Ice vendor units and/or reach-in ice merchandiser units; electrical icemaker units; ice storage
    of not more than five tons' capacity;
         — Key and lock service;
         — Laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;
         — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
         — Medical and dental clinic and laboratories;
         — Newsstand;


                                                                                                 Page 127
         — Notions;
         — Nurses' agency;
         — Office, business or professional;
         — Optometrist and/or oculist;
         — Pet shop;
         — Photographer and/or sale of photographic supplies;
         — Popcorn and/or nut shop;
         — Radio and television sales and repair;
         — Shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
         — Stationery and greeting card sales;
         — Tailor shop.




19.56.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-1 zone include:
         — Ambulance service;
        — An apartment attached to and on the same parcel as an automobile service station and
    occupied by a manager or other employee;
         — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Automobile service center which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change, front-end
    alignment and brake repair, providing there is not outside storage of parts or material;
         — Automobile service station, excluding the repairing, painting or upholstering of motor
    vehicles; automatic automobile carwash, not to exceed four wash bays;
         — Baking, ice cream making and/or candy making incidental to retail sales serving not more
    than three outlets in the countymetro township and employing not more than three persons;
         — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
         — Class C fireworks store;
         — Copy service;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Delicatessen;
         — Dog and cat groomery, excluding overnight boarding;
         — Drugstore;
         — Frozen food locker incidental to a main grocery store or food business;
         — Grocery;
         — Home occupation;
         — Massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
         — Milk distributing station and sales of dairy products, excluding processing or bottling;
         — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:


                                                                                                  Page 128
    A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
         landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
    B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
         minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
         access to the property.
    C.    Compliance with the sign ordinance.
    D.    The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
    E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
         intersecting streets.
    F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
    — Parking lot;
    — Planned unit development;
    — Private school;
    — Public and quasi-public use;
    — Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
    — Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
    B.    Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt
         LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township business license.
    C.   Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or semi-
         nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code; and
    D.   The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501 of the
         Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the
         Utah Criminal Code.
    — Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
         landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
    B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
    C.    The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
    D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
    E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
    — Restaurant;
    — Shared parking;
    — Tanning studio;
     — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
construction work. If such buildings are not removed within ninety days upon completion of
construction, and thirty days after notice, the buildings will be removed by the countymetro township
at the expense of the owner.




                                                                                           Page 129
19.56.050 - Businesses and retail shops—Conditions.

    The stores, shops or businesses designated above in this chapter shall be retail establishments only,
and shall be permitted only under the following conditions:
    A.   Such business shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, except for the parking
         and servicing of automobiles, and service to people in automobiles;
    B.    All products, whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on the premises; no
         entertainment, except music, shall be permitted in cafes, confectioneries or refreshment stands;
    C.   All uses shall be free from objection because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other
         causes.




19.56.060 - Front yard.

     In C-1 zones, the minimum depth of the front yard for all buildings, structures, walls or fences more
than two feet in height shall be twenty feet.




19.56.070 - Side yard.

     None; except that wherever a building in the C-1 zone is located upon a lot adjacent to a residential
zone or agricultural zone boundary, there shall be provided a side yard of not less than ten feet on the
side of the building adjacent to the zone boundary line, and on corner lots the side yard which faces on a
street shall be not less than twenty feet.




19.56.080 - Rear yard.

     None; except that in the C-1 zone, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot in a
residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.



19.56.090 - Building height.

      No building or structure in the C-1 zone shall contain more than two and one-half stories, or exceed
thirty-five feet in height.




19.56.100 - Coverage restrictions.

    In the C-1 zone, no building or structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall
cover more than sixty percent of the area of the lot.




Chapter 19.60 - C-V COMMERCIAL ZONE




                                                                                                Page 130
19.60.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the C-V zone is to provide for areas in appropriate locations where commercial
centers providing for the needs of tourists and travelers may be established, maintained and protected,
subject to conditional use approval by the planning commission. The regulations of this zone are
designed to encourage the provision of transient housing facilities, restaurants, service stations, and other
commercial activities providing for the convenience, welfare or entertainment of the traveler.




19.60.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the C-V zone include:
     A.   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a conditional and permitted use;
     B.   Agriculture.




19.60.030 - Conditional uses.

     Conditional uses in the C-V zone include:
          — Antique shop without outside display;
          — Any other establishment for the service of visitors, determined by the planning commission to
     be of the same general character as the above uses;
          — Art gallery;
          — Automobile service station, campground and travel trailer park;
          — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
          — Class A beer outlet;
          — Class B beer outlet;
          — Class C fireworks store;
          — Handicraft shop;
          — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
          A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
               landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
          B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
               minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
               access to the property.
          C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
          D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
          E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
               intersecting streets.
          F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
          — Public or quasi-public use;


                                                                                                   Page 131
          — Recreation, commercial;
          — Restaurant; drive-in refreshment stand;
          — Restaurant liquor license;
          — Shared parking;
          — State-approved liquor and/or beer outlet on state-owned property;
          — Tourist court; motel; motor hotel.




19.60.040 - Board of health approval.

      Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or site plan approval for all uses, regardless of size or
number of units, the applicant shall receive the written approval of the board of health certifying that all
health requirements have been satisfied and that the proposed construction will not damage the natural
watershed. In addition, developments of more than nine lots or more than nine units shall receive the
written approval of the State Division of Health certifying the culinary water system and the sewerage
system. All approvals shall be in accordance with the regulations of the State Division of Health relating to
culinary water supply and wastewater disposal.




19.60.050 - Building height.

     No building or structure in the C-V zone shall exceed three stories or thirty-five feet in height.




19.60.060 - Lot area, coverage and yard requirements.

    The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the C-V zone, except where increased for
conditional uses:

  Lot       Lot
                                                             Yard in Feet
 Area     Coverage

 (Sq.       (Max
                       Front                     Side                                    Rear
  Ft.)     Percent)


                               None except when abutting an R zone        10 feet except when abutting an R
10,000        40         20
                                  and then not less than 25 feet           zone then not less than 25 feet




19.60.070 - Maximum coverage.




                                                                                                      Page 132
    In the C-V zone, the maximum coverage for the aggregate of all buildings, paved surfaces and
graded areas shall be twenty-five percent of the site area.




19.60.080 - Natural hazards.

    In the C-V zone, construction of permanent structures is not permitted in areas subject to hazards
such as floods, landslides and avalanches.




19.60.090 - Grading—Permit required.

       In C-V zones, to eliminate the possibility of erosion and unsightly scars on the mountain slopes, cut-
and-fill shall be controlled by standards adopted by the planning commission, which are based on slope
and grade analysis, for construction of access roads, private rights-of-way, and building sites. All cut-and-
fill surfaces shall be replanted and maintained to negate the possibility of erosion and scarring. All grading
shall also comply with the requirements of the Uniform Building Code as adopted in Chapter 15.08,
Uniform Building Code.




19.60.100 - Natural vegetation.

     Natural vegetation shall not be removed in the C-V zone unless the site plan and the plan for
vegetation clearing is approved by the planning commission for conditional uses, or the development
services division director for permitted uses, subject to all the provisions of this chapter.




19.60.110 - Building materials.

    In the C-V zone, buildings shall be designed to preserve the natural beauty of the canyon area. Only
those building materials which will blend harmoniously into the natural environment shall be permitted.
The use of wood, stone and other harmonious materials is encouraged, and the use of bland, unpainted
concrete blocks and unpainted metal is prohibited on exterior surfaces.




19.60.120 - Canyon areas—Special provisions applicable.

     Developments in the C-V zone located in canyon areas of the county shall be subject to the
provisions of Sections 19.10.040 through 19.10.170 of this title, and as set out in Sections 19.60.130
through 19.60.180 of this chapter.




19.60.130 - Canyon areas—Lot area, width and slope.

    In C-V zones, the minimum lot area shall be one-half acre. The minimum width of any lot shall be
one hundred feet. Construction is not permitted where the slope exceeds thirty percent. Roads and other



                                                                                                    Page 133
vehicular routes shall not cross property having a slope greater than thirty percent unless, after review by
the planning commission, it is determined that:
     A.   Appropriate engineering measures can be taken to minimize the impact of the cuts and fills,
          consistent with the purpose of this chapter; and
     B.   The environment and aesthetics of the area will not be significantly affected.




19.60.140 - Canyon areas—Yards.

     In the C-V zone, because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of the
canyon areas, the side, rear and front yard requirements will be determined on an individual basis by the
planning commission for conditional uses, and by the development services division director for single-
family dwellings.




19.60.150 - Canyon areas—Building height.

A.    In the C-V zone, the unique nature of the topography, vegetation, soils, climatic and aesthetic
     characteristics of the canyons defy uniform regulations, and require that the heights of structures be
     determined on an individual basis. Maximum and minimum heights of all conditional uses shall be
     determined by the planning commission based on a careful analysis of the following:
     1.   Natural setting;
     2.   Relationship to other structures and open spaces;
     3.   Contour intervals and topographic features;
     4.   Height, density and type of vegetation;
     5.   Scenic vistas;
     6.   Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the provisions of Section 19.10.010 are met.
B.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Title no single family dwelling shall exceed the
     following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent or
          the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
          drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
          box which encircles the foundation line of the single-family dwelling. Said box shall extend for a
          distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of
          the single-family dwelling. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic
          survey with a maximum contour interval of two feet.
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No single-family dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.60.160 - Canyon areas—Maximum density.

     In the C-V zone, the maximum density for residential dwelling units, except single-family dwellings,
shall be as follows:




                                                                                                   Page 134
  Zone                                             Maximum Density

  FM-10                       10 dwelling units or 20 guestrooms per net developable acre

  FM-20                       20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable acre




19.60.170 - Canyon areas—Off-street parking.

     In the C-V zone, for conditional uses the planning commission shall determine the number of parking
spaces required. For permitted uses, the planning and development services division director shall
determine the number of parking spaces required. However, the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80
shall be provided, except that for hotels and resort hotels, one-half parking space shall be provided for
each guestroom. The planning commission may modify the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through
19.80.120.




19.60.180 - Canyon areas—Utilities.

    In the C-V zone, all utilities shall be placed underground.




19.60.200 - Lots of record.

     The planning commission for conditional uses and the development services director for permitted
uses may waive the slope requirements of this chapter for legal lots of record and subdivisions in the C-V
zone which were approved by the planning commission prior to the enactment of the ordinance from
which this section derives if such waiver would not be injurious to health, safety and the general public
welfare of the inhabitants of Salt Lake County and is consistent with the purpose of this title.




Chapter 19.62 - C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.62.010 - Purpose of provisions.

   The purpose of the C-2 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for community
commercial development.




19.62.020 - Commercial developments over one acre.




                                                                                                Page 135
    Commercial developments in the C-2 zone over one acre must follow the conditional use permit
procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.




19.62.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Addressograph shop;
         — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Archery shop and range, providing the use is conducted within a completely enclosed
    building;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Athletic goods store;
         — Automobile service station;
         — Awning sales and repair;
         — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
         — Bakery;
         — Bank;
         — Barbershop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Blueprinting and/or photostating;
         — Bookstore;
         — Bowling alley, including billiard and/or pool tables;
         — Bus terminal;
         — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
         — Candy store; confectionery;
         — Carbonated water sales;
         — Class A beer outlet;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing;
         — Clothing store;
         — Coal and fuel sales office;
         — Costume rental;
         — Dancing;
         — Department store;



                                                                                       Page 136
    — Delicatessen;
    — Dog training, provided all training is within a completely enclosed building;
    — Dramatics school;
    — Drapery and/or curtain store;
    — Dressmaking;
    — Drive-in refreshment stand;
    — Drugstore;
    — Dry goods store;
    — Electrical and heating appliances and fixture sales and repair;
    — Egg candling and sales;
    — Employment agency;
    — Film exchange;
    — Five-and-ten cent store;
    — Fix-it shop;
    — Flooring or floor repair shop;
    — Florist shop;
    — Fountain equipment supply;
    — Frozen food lockers;
    — Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
    — Fur sales, storage and/or repair;
    — Furniture sales and/or repair;
    — Gift shop;
    — Greenhouse and nursery; plant materials; soil and lawn service;
    — Grocery;
    — Gunsmith;
    — Gymnasium;
    — Hardware store, not including the sale of lumber;
    — Health food store;
    — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Hospital supplies;
    — House cleaning and repair; house equipment display;
    — Ice cream shop;
     — Ice vendor units and/or reach-in ice merchandiser units; electrical icemaker units; ice storage
of not more than five tons' capacity;
    — Insulation sales;
    — Interior decorating store;



                                                                                            Page 137
— Jewelry store;
— Janitorial service;
— Key and lock service;
— Laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;
— Leather goods sales;
— Linen shop;
— Luggage shop;
— Machine tools sales;
— Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
— Medical and dental clinic and laboratory;
— Milk distributing station and sale of dairy products, excluding processing or bottling;
— Military store;
— Mobile lunch agency;
— Monument sales, retail;
— Motorboat sales;
— Music store;
— Newsstand;
— Notions;
— Novelty shop;
— Numismatic shop; gold, silver and platinum dealer;
— Nurses' agency;
— Office, business or professional; office supply; office machines sales and repair;
— Oil burner shop;
— Optometrist and/or oculist;
— Ornamental iron, sales only;
— Painter and/or paint store;
— Pest extermination and control office;
— Pet shop;
— Photographer and/or sale of photographic supplies;
— Popcorn and/or nut shop;
— Radio and television sales and repair and/or station;
— Residential facility for elderly persons;
— Restaurant;
— Roofing sales;
— Safe sales;
— Secondhand shop;
— Shoe shop; shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;


                                                                                            Page 138
         — Sewing machine shop;
         — Stationery and greeting card sales;
         — Swimming pool;
         — Tailor shop;
         — Taxidermist;
         — Taxi stand;
         — Tire shop, sales only;
         — Theater, indoor;
         — Tobacco shop;
         — Towel and linen supply service;
         — Travel bureau;
         — Upholstery shop;
         — Variety store;
         — Wallpaper store;
         — Weather-stripping shop.




19.62.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-2 zone include:
          — Agency for the sale of new motor vehicles, trailers and campers, including the incidental sale
    of used motor vehicles, trailers and campers, provided this use is incidental and located on the same
    property as the primary use of new motor vehicle sales; agency for the rental of motor vehicles,
    trailers or campers;
         — Ambulance service;
         — Apartments for elderly persons;
         — Arcade, not to be located within a one thousand foot distance, via the most direct pedestrian
    route, of the property line of any school or private educational institution having an academic
    curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. For purposes of measuring distance, a
    pedestrian route shall not include a route which requires crossing a physical barrier such as a fence,
    canal or freeway, or include trespassing across private property.
         — Athletic club and/or health club;
         — Automobile repair, including incidental body and fender work, painting and
         upholstering and/or welding; automatic automobile wash;
         — Automobile service center, which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change, front-end
    alignment, brake repair, and muffler repair, providing there is not outside storage of parts or
    materials;
         — Baking, ice cream making and/or candy making;
         — Bath and massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
         — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;




                                                                                                Page 139
     — Cat and dog groomery, excluding overnight boarding;
     — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
     — Check cashing, provided that each check cashing business shall be located a minimum
distance of six hundred feet from any other similarly licensed facility;
     — Class C fireworks store;
     — Copy service;
     — Day care/preschool center;
     — Golf course;
   — Hardware store, including the sale of lumber, providing all storage of lumber is within a
completely enclosed building;
     — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
     — Home occupation;
     — Hospital;
     — Hotel and apartment hotel;
     — Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
     — Mini-storage units, secondary to the main use of the parcel;
     — Mobile home park;
     — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
     A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
          landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
     B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
          minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
          access to the property.
     C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
     D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
     E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
          intersecting streets.
     F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
     — Motel;
     — Multiple dwellings; group dwellings;
     — Neighborhood storage;
      — Open storage for recreational vehicles only (campers, snowmobiles, etc.), but not to include
the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap material, or for
the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery, or parts
thereof, as in an impound lot or junkyard, etc.; and such use will be required to install a six-foot solid
visual barrier fence or masonry wall around the entire storage area (chain-link with slats is
acceptable) as a conditional use in the commercial C-2 zone, and as an accessory use only to a
main use, such as a service station, carwash or similar use. Gravel or grass surfacing will be allowed
for the storage area;
     — Package agency;
     — Parking lot;



                                                                                                Page 140
— Planned unit development;
— Plumbing shop;
— Printing shops;
— Private nonprofit locker club;
— Private post office box service;
— Private school;
— Public and quasi-public use;
— Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific development
     proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
C.   Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
D.   Commercial uses shall be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on a public street.
E.   Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a public
     street.
F.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.
G.   The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be twenty feet
     minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
H.   The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of the
     building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the planning
     commission.
I.   The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on
     projected transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning
     Commission Exceptions."
J.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit Mixed-
     Use Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The planning
     commission has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary during
     development review.
— Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
— Recreation, commercial;
— Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
B.    Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt
     LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township business license.
C.   Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the promises in a state of nudity or semi-
     nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code; and
D.   The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47h-501 of the
     Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the
     Utah Criminal Code.
— Rent-all store, provided that there is not outside storage;
— Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:




                                                                                            Page 141
         A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
              landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
         B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
         C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
         D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
         E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Seed and feed store;
         — Shared parking;
         — Sign-painting shop;
         — Single-family dwelling in conjunction with a service station;
         — State store;
         — Swap meets and flea markets within drive-in theaters or enclosed buildings;
         — Tanning studio;
        — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
    guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
    construction work;
         — Theaters, outdoor, providing:
         A.   A solid fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be constructed on all
              sides.
         B.   Driveways and parking areas shall be provided with properly maintained dustless surfaces.
         C.   Automobile off-street storage areas for automobiles awaiting entrance to the theater shall
              have a capacity of at least fifteen percent of the number of automobile parking spaces
              provided inside the theater.
         D.    Minimum area for a single-screen theater shall be ten acres; minimum area for a two-
              screen theater shall be twelve acres.
         — Transfer company, provided trucks no larger than two tons' capacity are used;
         — Unoccupied model buildings for display, accessory to a sales office;
         — Veterinary, providing operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned building.




19.62.050 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

    The uses specified above in this chapter for the C-2 zone shall be permitted only under the following
conditions:
    A.    All manufacturing shall be done wholly within a completely enclosed building, and shall be
         incidental to and operated in connection with a use permitted in this chapter;
    B.   All uses shall be free from objections because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other
         causes.




                                                                                                Page 142
19.62.060 - Lot area.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum lot area shall be not less than five thousand
         square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three thousand square feet for each
         additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty square feet additional for
         each additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each separate dwelling structure;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.62.070 - Lot width.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum width of any lot shall be fifty feet at a distance
         twenty-five feet back from the front lot line;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.62.080 - Front yard.

    In C-2 zones:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the front yard for dwellings and for
         private garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be twenty-five feet, or the
         average of the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in
         no case less than fifteen feet. Other private garages and all accessory buildings other than
         private garages shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.
    B.   Other Buildings. The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.




19.62.090 - Side yard.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet,
         and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet, except
         that dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one foot of additional side yard
         on each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds thirty-five feet in height.
         The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except private garages and
         other accessory buildings located at least six feet in the rear of the main building shall have a
         minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory
         building shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the
         side yard which faces on a street for both dwellings and accessory buildings shall be not less
         than twenty feet, or the average of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage
         is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that wherever a building is located upon a lot
         adjacent to a residential land use, there shall be provided a side yard of not less than ten feet
         on the side of the building adjacent to the residential property, and on corner lots the side yard
         which faces on a street shall be not less than twenty feet.


                                                                                                   Page 143
19.62.100 - Rear yard.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the rear yard for any dwelling shall be
         thirty feet, and for accessory buildings one foot, provided that on corner lots which rear upon the
         side yard of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such
         side yard;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard
         of another lot in a residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.




19.62.110 - Building height.

      No building or structure in the C-2 zone shall contain more than six stories, or exceed seventy-five
feet in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.62.120 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the C-2 zone, no building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover more
than sixty percent of the area of the lot.




19.62.130 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following
factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township agencies; site
constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan.
Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with
density higher than the following:

               Single-family dwellings                                   7.0 units per acre

                Two-family dwellings                                    12.0 units per acre

                Three-family dwellings                                  15.0 units per acre

                Four-family dwellings                                   18.0 units per acre

                Multi-family dwellings                                 25.0 units per acre*

                Rail transit mixed-use                                 No maximum density




                                                                                                  Page 144
* Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to be
compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which incorporates
innovations of design, amenities, and features, may be approved by the planning commission for higher
densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0 units per acre.

Chapter 19.64 - C-3 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.64.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the C-3 zone is to provide areas in the county for commercial uses, warehousing and
wholesale business.




19.64.020 - Commercial developments over one acre.

    Commercial developments in the C-3 zone over one acre must follow the conditional use permit
procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.




19.64.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-3 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Addressograph shop;
         — Air conditioning and ventilating equipment sales and repair;
         — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Archery shop and range, providing the use is conducted within a completely enclosed
    building;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Athletic goods store;
         — Automobile service center, which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change, front end
    alignment, brake repair and muffler repair, providing there is no outside storage of parts or materials;
         — Automobile service station;
         — Awning sales and repair;
         — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
         — Bakery;
         — Bank;
         — Barbershop;
         — Beauty shop;


                                                                                                  Page 145
    — Bicycle shop;
    — Blueprint and/or photostating;
    — Bookstore; bookbinding;
    — Bowling alley;
    — Bus terminal;
    — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
    — Candy store; confectionery;
    — Carbonated water sales;
    — Carpet and/or rug cleaning;
    — Class A beer outlet;
    — Class B beer outlet;
    — Clothes cleaning, dyeing;
    — Clothing stores;
    — Coal and fuel sales office;
    — Copy service;
    — Costume rental;
    — Dairy;
    — Dancehall;
    — Department store;
    — Delicatessen;
     — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery: Boarding is limited to a maximum of twenty-one days
and must be within a completely enclosed air-conditioned sound proofed building with no outside
runs. Noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
    — Dog training, provided all training is within a completely enclosed building;
    — Dramatics school;
    — Drapery and/or curtain store;
    — Dressmaking;
    — Drive-in refreshment stand;
    — Drugstore;
    — Dry goods store;
    — Egg candling and sales;
    — Electrical and heating appliances and fixture sales and repair;
    — Employment agency;
    — Film exchange;
    — Five-and-ten cent store;
    — Fix-it shop;
    — Flooring or floor repair shop;



                                                                                      Page 146
— Florist shop;
— Fountain equipment supply;
— Frozen food lockers;
— Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
— Fur sales, storage and/or repair;
— Furniture sales and/or repair;
— Gift shop;
— Greenhouse and/or nursery; plant materials; soil and lawn service;
— Grocery;
— Gunsmith;
— Gymnasium;
— Hardware store;
— Health food store;
— Hobby and/or crafts shop;
— Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
— Honey extraction;
— Hospital supplies;
— House cleaning and repair; house equipment display;
— Ice cream shop; ice cream manufacture;
— Ice manufacture, storage, and retail and wholesale sales;
— Insulation sales;
— Interior decorating store;
— Janitorial service;
— Jewelry store;
— Key and lock service;
— Laboratory;
— Laundry; laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;
— Leather goods sales;
— Linen shop;
— Luggage sales;
— Machine tool sales;
— Manicuring, pedicuring, and electrolysis of hair;
— Medical and dental clinic;
— Milk distributing station and sale of dairy products;
— Millinery store;
— Mobile lunch agency;
— Monument sales;


                                                                       Page 147
— Motorboat sales;
— Music store;
— Newsstand;
— Notions store;
— Novelty shop;
— Numismatic shop; gold, silver and platinum dealer;
— Office, business or professional; office supply; office machines sales and repair;
— Oil burner shop;
— Optometrist and/or oculist;
— Ornamental iron, sales only;
— Painter and/or paint store;
— Pawnshop;
— Pest extermination and control office;
— Pet shop;
— Photography shop and/or sale of photographic supplies;
— Plumbing shop;
— Popcorn and/or nut shop;
— Printing, lithographing and/or publishing shop;
— Radio and television sales and repair; radio and television station;
— Railway express;
— Residential facility for elderly persons;
— Restaurant;
— Roofing sales;
— Safe sales;
— Sales and storage of pipe;
— Secondhand store;
— Sewing machine shop;
— Shoe shop; shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
— Sign-painting shop;
— Stationery and greeting card sales;
— Tailor shop;
— Tanning studio;
— Taxidermist;
— Taxi stand;
— Tire shop;
— Theater, indoor;
— Tobacco shop;


                                                                                       Page 148
         — Towel and linen supply service;
         — Travel bureau;
         — Upholstery shop;
         — Variety store;
         — Veterinary;
         — Wallpaper store;
         — Warehouse, storage; wholesale business;
         — Weatherstripping shop.




19.64.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-3 zone include:
         — Agency for the sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, trailers or campers;
         — Ambulance service;
         — Animal hospital;
         — Apartments for elderly persons;
         — Arcade, not to be located within a one thousand foot distance, via the most direct pedestrian
    route, of the property line of any school or private educational institution having an academic
    curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. For purposes of measuring distance, a
    pedestrian route shall not include a route which requires crossing a physical barrier such as a fence,
    canal or freeway, or include trespassing across private property;
         — Assembly of medical supplies;
         — Athletic club and/or health club;
        — Automobile repair shop, including body and fender work, tire recapping and/or vulcanizing;
    automatic automobile wash;
         — Baking, ice cream making and/or candymaking;
         — Bath and massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
         — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
         — Bottling works, soft drinks;
         — Boxing arena;
         — Building material sales;
         — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
         — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
         — Check cashing, provided that each check cashing business shall be located a minimum
    distance of six hundred feet from any other similarly licensed facility;
         — Class C beer outlet;
         — Class C fireworks store;
         — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;




                                                                                                Page 149
— Day care/preschool center;
— Electronic instruments assembling;
— Golf course;
— Hatchery;
— Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
— Home occupation;
— Hospital;
— Hotel and apartment hotel;
— Impound lot, providing:
A.   A solid visual barrier fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be
     constructed on all sides.
B.   No dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles shall be conducted on the
     premises.
— Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
— Knitting mill;
— Liquor store;
— Lumberyard;
— Machinery installation and servicing;
— Mobile home park;
— Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
     landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the county.
B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
     minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
     access to the property.
C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
     intersecting streets.
F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
— Monument works;
— Motel;
— Multiple dwelling; group dwelling;
— Nightclub or social club;
— Outdoor chemical toilet rental;
— Package agency;
— Parking lot;
— Planned unit development;
— Private nonprofit locker club;


                                                                                     Page 150
— Private post office box service;
— Private school;
— Public and quasi-public use;
— Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific development
     proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
C.   Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
D.   Commercial uses shall only occupy the first floor of buildings fronting a public street.
E.   Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a public
     street.
F.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.
G.   The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be twenty feet
     minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
H.   The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of the
     building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the planning
     commission.
I.   The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on
     projected transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning
     Commission Exceptions."
J.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit Mixed-
     Use Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The planning
     commission has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary during
     development review.
— Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
— Recreation, commercial;
— Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt Lake
     County business license.
C.   Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or semi-
     nudity as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code; and
D.   The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501 of the
     Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the
     Utah Criminal Code.
— Rent-all stores;
— Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:
A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
     landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the county.
B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.


                                                                                            Page 151
         E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Seed and feed store;
         — Sexually oriented business;
         — Shared parking;
         — State store;
         — Swap meets and flea markets within drive-in theaters or enclosed buildings;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
    guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
    construction work. If such buildings are not removed within ninety days upon completion of
    construction and thirty days after notice, the buildings will be removed by the county at the expense
    of the owner;
         — Theaters, outdoor, providing:
         A.   A solid fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be constructed on all
              sides.
         B.   Driveways and parking areas shall be provided with properly maintained dustless surfaces.
         C.   Automobile off-street storage areas for automobiles awaiting entrance to the theater shall
              have a capacity of at least fifteen percent of the number of automobile parking spaces
              provided inside the theater.
         D.    Minimum area for a single-screen theater shall be ten acres; minimum area for a two-
              screen theater shall be twelve acres.
         — Transfer company;
         — Used car lot.




19.64.050 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

     The uses specified above in this chapter and the C-3 zone shall be permitted only under the
following conditions:
    A.   All manufacturing shall be done wholly within completely enclosed buildings.
    B.   All uses shall be free from objections because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other
         causes.




19.64.060 - Lot area.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum lot area shall be not less than five thousand
         square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three thousand square feet for each
         additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty square feet additional for
         each additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each separate dwelling structure;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




                                                                                                Page 152
19.64.070 - Lot width.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum width of any lot shall be fifty feet at a distance
         twenty-five feet back from the front lot line;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.64.080 - Front yard.

    In C-3 zones:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the front yard for dwellings and for
         private garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be twenty-five feet, or the
         average of the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in
         no case less than fifteen feet. Other private garages and all accessory buildings other than
         private garages shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.64.090 - Side yard.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet,
         and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet, except
         that dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one foot of additional side yard
         on each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds thirty-five feet in height.
         The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except private garages and
         other accessory buildings located at least six feet in the rear of the main building shall have a
         minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory
         building shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the
         side yard which faces on a street for both dwellings and accessory buildings shall be not less
         than twenty feet, or the average of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage
         is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that wherever a building is located upon a lot
         adjacent to a residential zone or agricultural zone boundary, there shall be provided a side yard
         of not less than ten feet on the side of the building adjacent to the zone boundary line, and on
         corner lots the side yard which faces on a street shall be not less than twenty feet.




19.64.100 - Rear yard.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the rear yard for any dwelling shall be
         thirty feet, and for accessory buildings one foot, provided that on corner lots which rear upon the




                                                                                                   Page 153
         side yard of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such
         side yard;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard
         of another lot in a residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.




19.64.110 - Building height.

      No building or structure in the C-3 zone shall contain more than six stories, or exceed seventy-five
feet in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.64.120 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the C-3 zone, no building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover more
than sixty percent of the area of the lot.




19.64.130 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following
factors: recommendations of county and non-county agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby
land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the planning
commission shall not approve a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

               Single-family dwellings                                  7.0 units per acre

                Two-family dwellings                                   12.0 units per acre

                Three-family dwellings                                 15.0 units per acre

                Four-family dwellings                                  18.0 units per acre

                Multi-family dwellings                                25.0 units per acre*

                Rail transit mixed-use                                No maximum density




* Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to be
compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which incorporates
innovations of design, amenities and features, may be approved by the planning commission for higher
densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0 units per acre.

Chapter 19.66 - M-1 MANUFACTURING ZONE



                                                                                                Page 154
19.66.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the M-1 zone is to provide areas in the county for light industrial uses.




19.66.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the M-1 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animals and fowl for family food production;
         — Animal hospitals;
         — Assembly of medical supplies;
         — Boatbuilding;
         — Bottling works, soft drinks;
         — Bookbinding;
         — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
         — Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
         — Dairy;
         — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery;
         — Egg candling, processing and sales;
         — Electric appliance and/or electronic instruments;
         — Express office;
         — Garage, public;
         — Honey extraction;
         — Ice manufacture and storage;
         — Knitting mill;
         — Laboratory;
         — Laundry;
         — Machine shop;
         — Manufacture and maintenance of the following:
         A.   Business machines,
         B.   Cameras and photographic equipment,
         C.   Electric and neon signs, billboards and/or commercial advertising structures,




                                                                                               Page 155
         D.    Light sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating ducts and equipment,
              cornices and eaves, Venetian blinds, window shades and awnings,
         E.   Musical instruments,
         F.   Novelties,
         G.   Rubber and metal stamps,
         H.   Toys;
         — Meat products smoking, curing and packing, provided that no objectionable fumes are
    emitted;
         — Monument works;
         — Motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles and machinery assembling, painting, upholstering,
    rebuilding, repairing, rentals, sales and reconditioning;
         — Office, business and/or professional;
         — Outdoor chemical toilet rental;
         — Parking lot;
         — Printing, including engraving and photoengraving;
         — Radio and television transmitting towers;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Recycling collection center operated within an enclosed building;
         — Rent-all stores;
         — Restaurant;
         — Sandblasting;
         — Service station;
         — Sign-painting shop;
         — Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing;
         — Transfer company;
         — Upholstering, including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating;
         — Used car lot;
         — Veterinary;
         — Warehouse;
         — Weaving;
         — Wholesale business.




19.66.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the M-1 zone include:
         — Airport;
         — Auction;




                                                                                        Page 156
    — Automatic automobile wash;
    — Bank;
    — Battery manufacture;
    — Blacksmith shop;
     — Building material sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like, as an
incidental part of the main business, but excluding concrete mixing, except as such concrete mixing
is necessary in the preparation and manufacture of any of the products specified in this section;
    — Class C fireworks store;
    — Coal, fuel and wood yards;
    — Contractors' equipment storage yard or rental of equipment used by contractors;
    — Day care/preschool center;
    — Drag strip racing;
    — Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
    — Electrical contractor;
    — Foundry, casting lightweight nonferrous metal without causing noxious odors or fumes;
    — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacture, processing and/or sales, providing only
nonanimal products and byproducts are used;
    — Firearms and/or archery range;
    — Gymnasium;
    — Impound lot, providing there is no dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles
conducted on the premises;
    — Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
    — Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging and treatment of the following products:
    A.    Bakery goods,
    B.   Candy,
    C.    Cosmetics,
    D.    Dairy products,
    E.    Pharmaceuticals,
    F.   Toiletries,
    G.   Food products, excluding the following: Fish, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and the rendering
         of fat,
    H.    Pickles;
      — Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of articles of merchandise from the
following previously prepared materials: Bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber,
fish, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, paint, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones,
rubber, shell, straw, textiles, tobacco, wood or yarn;
      — Manufacture of brick, and all clay, ceramic, cinder, concrete, synthetic, cast-stone, plastic
and pumice stone products, including, in addition, the manufacture or fabrication of building blocks,
tile or pipe from raw material for use in building construction or for sewer or drainage purposes, and
excluding rock or gravel crushing of raw materials, except as such rock or gravel crushing of raw
materials is incidental to the manufacture or fabrication of the above-described products, and


                                                                                            Page 157
    provided that such crushing facilities shall be located not closer than two hundred feet to any
    property line;
         — Metal plating; metal anodizing; metal polishing;
         — Motion picture studio;
         — Package agency;
         — Planing mill;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private school;
         — Public and quasi-public use;
         — Radio and television stations;
         — Recreation, commercial;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Sanitary landfill;
         — Sexually oriented business;
         — Shared parking;
         — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in this
    section, to be retained on a separate lot;
         — State store;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
    guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon the completion or abandonment of
    the construction work;
         — Welding shop.




19.66.040 - Lot area.

    In the M-1 zone:
    A.   A single-family dwelling on the same lot with another use(s) allowed in the zone shall occupy a
         minimum area of five thousand square feet, separated from the other use(s) with a permanent
         fence;
    B.    Single-family dwellings retained on a separate lot from other use(s) shall be a minimum of
         twenty thousand square feet, exclusive of access rights-of-way;
    C.    Other uses: None;
    D.    Industrial developments over one acre must follow the conditional use permit procedure
         pursuant to Section 19.84.020 of this title.




19.66.050 - Lot width and yards.

    In the M-1 zone:
    A.   Single-family Dwelling on the Same Lot With Other Uses.



                                                                                              Page 158
         1.   The required fence shall constitute the property line for the purpose of yard requirements
              where an actual property line does not exist.
         2.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total of the two required side yards' width
              shall not be less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street
              shall not be less than twenty feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall not be less than fifteen feet.
         4.   The width of the yard at any point shall be equal to, or greater than the maximum width of
              the dwelling, plus the required side yards.
    B.   Single-family Dwellings Retained on a Separate Lot.
         1.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total width of the two required side yards
              shall be not less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street
              shall not be less than twenty feet.
         2.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be fifteen feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.
         4.   The minimum width of the lot shall be sixty feet.
         5.   Access shall be from a private right-of-way or public street with a minimum width of thirty
              feet.
    C.   Other Uses. None, except that no commercial or industrial building or structure shall be located
         closer than twenty feet to any street.




19.66.060 - Coverage restrictions.

    In the M-1 zone, no building, structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall
cover more than eighty percent of the area of the lot.




Chapter 19.68 - M-2 MANUFACTURING ZONE



19.68.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the M-2 zone is to provide areas in the county for heavy industrial uses.




19.68.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the M-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animal hospital;
         — Assembly of medical supplies;



                                                                                                 Page 159
    — Bag cleaning;
    — Blacksmith shop;
    — Blueprinting, photostating and duplicating;
    — Boatbuilding;
    — Boiler works;
    — Bookbinding;
    — Bottling works;
    — Breweries;
    — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
    — Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing;
    — Cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials central mixing plant;
    — Class B beer outlet;
    — Coke ovens;
    — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
    — Dairy;
    — Drive-it-yourself agency;
    — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery;
    — Egg candling, processing and sales;
    — Electric appliance and/or electronic instruments assembling;
    — Employment office;
    — Express office;
    — Feed, cereal or flour mill;
    — Forage plant;
    — Foundry;
    — Gymnasium;
    — Honey extraction;
    — Ice manufacture and storage;
    — Impound lot, provided there is no dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles
conducted on the premises;
    — Knitting mill;
    — Laboratories;
    — Laundry;
    — Lithographing, including engraving and photoengraving;
    — Machine shop;
     — Manufacture, fabrication, assembly, canning, compounding, packaging, processing,
treatment, storage and/or maintenance of the following:
    A.   Airplanes and parts; automobiles and parts; alcohol,



                                                                                         Page 160
    B.    Bakery goods; brass; business machines,
    C.    Candles; candy, cans, cameras and photographic equipment, including film; cast-stone
         products; celluloid; cement and cinder products; copper; ceramic products; clay products,
    D.    Dyestuffs,
    E.   Electric and neon signs, billboards and/or commercial advertising structures; emery cloth;
         excelsior,
    F.   Feathers; felt; fiber; fish; food products,
    G.    Glass; glucose; gypsum,
    H.    Hair; hardware,
    I.   Ink; iron,
    J.   Lampblack; linoleum; lime,
    K.    Machinery; malt; matches; meats; musical instruments,
    L.   Novelties,
    M.    Oilcloth; oiled rubber goods; oxygen,
    N.    Paper; paint; pulp; pickles; pottery; plaster; plaster of Paris; plastic,
    O.    Salt; sauerkraut; sheet metal; shellac; shoddy; shoe polish; soap and detergents; soda;
         starch; steel,
    P.    Terra cotta; tile; toys; turpentine,
    Q.    Varnish; vinegar,
    R.    Yeast;
     — Meat products smoking, curing and packing, providing that no objectionable fumes are
emitted;
    — Metal plating; metal anodizing; metal polishing;
    — Monument works;
     — Motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles and machinery assembling, painting, upholstering,
rebuilding, repairing, rentals, sales, and reconditioning;
    — Office, business and/or professional;
    — Outdoor chemical toilet rentals;
    — Parking lot;
    — Printing and newspaper publishing;
    — Radio and television transmitting towers;
    — Recycling collection center operated within an enclosed building;
    — Rent-all store;
    — Restaurant;
    — Sandblasting;
    — Service station;
    — Sign-painting shop;
    — Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing;



                                                                                         Page 161
         — Transfer company;
         — Upholstering, including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating;
         — Used car lot;
         — Veterinary;
         — Warehouse;
         — Weaving;
         — Wholesale business.




19.68.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the M-2 zone include:
         — Airport;
         — Auction;
         — Automatic automobile wash;
         — Bank;
         — Battery manufacture;
         — Building material sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like as an
    incidental part of the main business;
         — Class C beer outlet;
         — Coal, fuel and wood yards;
         — Contractors' equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of equipment used by contractors;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Drag strip racing;
         — Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
         — Electrical contractor;
        — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacturing, processing and/or sales, providing only
    nonanimal products and byproducts are used;
         — Incinerator, nonaccessory, provided that no objectionable fumes and odors are emitted;
         — Junkyard, provided the use is fenced with a visual barrier;
         — Lumberyard;
        — Manufacture, processing, compounding, packaging, treatment and/or storage of the following
    products:
         A.   Acetylene gas,
         B.   Pharmaceuticals,
         C.   Toiletries and/or cosmetics;
         — Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of articles of merchandise from the
    following previously prepared materials: Bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber,




                                                                                                Page 162
    fish, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, paint, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones,
    rubber, shell, straw, textiles, tobacco, wood or yarn;
         — Metals crushing for salvage; metals and metal products treatment and processing;
         — Oil or lubricating grease compounding;
         — Organic disposal site, minimum lot area fifty acres;
         — Package agency;
         — Petroleum refining and storage;
         — Planing mill;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private school;
         — Public and quasi-public use;
         — Radio and television stations;
         — Railroad yards, shop and/or roundhouse;
         — Rock crusher;
         — Sanitary landfill;
         — Shared parking;
         — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in this
    section, to be retained on the same lot with another use allowed in the zone;
         — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in this
    section, to be retained on a separate lot;
        — Uses which follow, provided they are located at least three hundred feet from any zone
    boundary:
         A.    Animal byproducts plants; offal or dead animal reduction or dumping,
         B.    Blast furnace,
         C.    Fat rendering,
         D.    Garbage,
         E.   Gravel pits; quarries; mines,
         F.   Manufacturing, processing, refining, treatment, distillation, storage or compounding of the
              following: Acid, ammonia, asphalt, bleaching powder and chlorine, bones, chemicals of an
              objectionable or dangerous nature, coal or wood, creosote, disinfectants or insecticides,
              fireworks or explosives, furs, gas, gelatine or size, glue, hides, ore, plastic, tallow, grease
              or lard, potash, pyroxylin, roofing or waterproofing materials, rubber or guttapercha, tar and
              wool,
         G.    Ore beneficiation,
         H.    Smelting or refining,
         I.   Steel or iron mill,
         J.   Stockyards.




19.68.040 - Lot area.



                                                                                                   Page 163
    In the M-2 zone:
    A.   A single-family dwelling on the same lot with another use(s) allowed in the zone shall occupy a
         minimum area of five thousand square feet, separated from the other use(s) with a permanent
         fence.
    B.   Single-family dwelling retained on a separate lot from other use(s) shall be a minimum of twenty
         thousand square feet, exclusive of access rights-of-way;
    C.   Other uses: None;
    D.    Industrial developments over one acre shall follow the conditional use permit procedure
         pursuant to Section 19.84.020 of this title.




19.68.050 - Lot width and yards.

    In the M-2 zone:
    A.   Single-family Dwelling on the Same Lot With Other Uses.
         1.   The required fence shall constitute the property line for the purpose of yard requirements
              where an actual property line does not exist.
         2.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet and the total width of the two required side yards
              shall be less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
              not be less than twenty feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall not be less than fifteen feet.
         4.   The width of the yard at any point shall be equal to or greater than the maximum width of
              the dwelling plus the required side yards.
    B.   Single-family Dwelling Retained on a Separate Lot.
         1.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total width of the two required side yards
              shall not be less than sixteen feet. On the corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street
              shall not be less than twenty feet.
         2.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be fifteen feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.
         4.   The minimum width of the lot shall be sixty feet.
         5.   Access shall be from a private right-of-way or public street with a minimum width of thirty
              feet.
    C.    Other Uses. None, except no commercial or industrial building or structure shall be located
         closer than twenty feet to any street.




19.68.060 - Coverage restrictions.

    In the M-2 zone, no building, structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall
cover more than eighty percent of the area of a lot.




Chapter 19.70 - AOZ AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE


                                                                                                  Page 164
19.70.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     It is determined that an airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of airports, and the
health, safety and welfare of property or occupants of land in its vicinity and, also, if of the obstruction
type or of the incompatible use type in effect reduces the size of the area available for landing, takeoff
and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of airports and the public
investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared that:
     A.    The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public nuisance and an injury to the
          region served by airports;
     B.   It is necessary in the interest of public health, public safety and general welfare that the creation
          and establishment of airport hazards be prevented; and
     C.   The prevention of these hazards should be accomplished, to the extent legally possible, by the
          exercise of the police power without compensation.




19.70.020 - Definitions.

     In this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations, shall have the meanings
as defined in this section:
     "Air circulation system" means any method of cooling and heating an area with windows and doors
closed, or with evaporative coolers and similar devices.
     "Airport" means any landing area, runway, or other facility designed, used or intended to be used
either publicly or by any person or persons for the landing or taking off of aircraft, including all necessary
taxiways, aircraft storage and tiedown areas, hangars, and other necessary buildings and open spaces,
as permitted by local zoning ordinances.
     "Airport elevation" means the highest point of the airport's usable landing area, measured in feet
from mean sea level.
     "Airport hazard" means any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the vicinity of the
airport, or any use of land near the airport, which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in
landing or takeoff of an aircraft.
     "Airport reference point" means the point established as the approximate geographic center of the
airport landing area, and so designated.
     "FAA" means the Federal Aviation Administration.
    "Height." For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this chapter and
shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
    "Incompatible use" means any structure or use of land which, because it exposes residents or
occupants in the vicinity of airports to aircraft noise, constitutes an airport hazard.
     "Nonconforming use" means any preexisting structure, tree or use of land which is inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter or an amendment thereto.
     "Nonprecision instrument runway" means a runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities, with only horizontal guidance or area-type navigation
equipment for which straight-in nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or
planned, and for which no precision approach facilities are planned or indicated on an FAA planning
document.




                                                                                                       Page 165
     "Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association or governmental entity. It includes a trustee, receiver, assignee or similar representative of
any of the foregoing.
       "Precision instrument runway" means a runway having an existing instrument approach procedure
utilizing an instrument landing system ("ILS") or a precision approach radar ("PAR"). It shall also mean a
runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated on an FAA approved airport
layout plan or any other FAA approved planning document.
     "Primary surface" means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a
specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred feet beyond each end of such
runway; but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the
primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in Part 77, Section 77.24 of the Federal Aviation
Regulations ("FAR"), which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part hereof, for the most
precise approach existing or planned for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the
primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
     "Runway" means a defined area on the airport prepared for landing and takeoff of aircraft along its
length.
     "Structure" means an object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation,
buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth foundations and overhead transmission lines.
     "Tree" means any object of natural growth.
     "Utility runway" means a runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller-driven
aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred pounds maximum gross weight or less.
    "Visual runway" means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual approach
procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure and no instrument designation indicated on
an FAA approved airport layout plan or on any planning document submitted to the FAA by competent
authority.




19.70.030 - Airport layout plan provisions.

     Airport types and airport height provisions for an airport shall be determined by and based on an
airport layout plan and airport zoning map approved by the county council and on file with the planning
commission. Any such maps so approved and recorded as of August 22, 1984, the time of the passage of
the ordinance codified in this chapter, shall be deemed to be as much a part of this chapter by this
reference as if fully prescribed and detailed herein.




19.70.040 - Airport overlay zones—Established—Applicability.

     In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are created and established certain overlay
zones which may include all of the land lying within the approach zones, transitional zones, horizontal
zones, conical zones, and airport restriction zones. Such zones shall be effective only to the extent shown
on the zoning maps on file in the office of the planning commission as the same appear as of the effective
date of the amending ordinance codified in this chapter, and as amended from time to time hereafter to
reflect the changes made thereon by ordinances adopted by the county council, and such map and all
references, notations and other information shown thereon are hereby made a part of this chapter to the
extent as if the map and the information thereon were fully described and set forth herein.




                                                                                                  Page 166
19.70.050 - Airport overlay zones—Height limitations.

      Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to
grow or be maintained in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height
limit established in this chapter for such zone.




19.70.060 - Utility runway visual approach zone—Established.

     Utility runway visual approach zones are established with the inner edge coinciding with the width of
the primary surface, and being two hundred fifty feet wide. The approach zone expands outward,
uniformly, to a width of twelve hundred fifty feet at a horizontal distance of five thousand feet from the
primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.




19.70.070 - Utility runway visual approach zone—Height limitations.

     The height limitation in a utility runway visual approach zone slopes upward twenty feet horizontally
for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface, and
extends to a horizontal distance of five thousand feet along the extended runway centerline.




19.70.080 - Runway larger than utility with certain conditions—Zone established.

      Runways larger than utility with a visible minimum as low as three-fourths' mile nonprecision
instrument approach zones are hereby established, with the inner edge of this approach zone coinciding
with the width of the primary zone, and are one thousand feet wide. The approach zone expands
outward, uniformly, to a width of sixteen thousand feet at a horizontal distance of fifty thousand feet from
the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.




19.70.090 - Runway larger than utility with certain conditions—Height limitations.

     The height limitation in a runway larger than utility with a visual minimum as low as three-fourths'
mile nonprecision instrument zone slopes upward one hundred feet horizontally for each foot vertically,
beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface, and extends to a horizontal
distance of ten thousand feet along the extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward forty feet
horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of forty thousand feet along the
extended runway centerline.




19.70.100 - Precision instrument runway approach zone—Established.

       Precision instrument runway approach zones are hereby established, with the inner edge of this
approach zone coinciding with the width of the primary surface, and are one thousand feet wide. The
approach zone expands outward, uniformly, to a width of sixteen thousand feet at a horizontal distance of
fifty thousand feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the
runway.



                                                                                                    Page 167
19.70.110 - Precision instrument runway approach zone—Height limitations.

     The height limitation in a precision runway approach zone slopes upward one hundred feet
horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface, and extends to a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet along the extended runway centerline;
thence slopes upward forty feet horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional distance of forty
thousand feet along the extended runway centerline.




19.70.120 - Transitional zones—Established.

     Transitional zones are hereby established as the area beneath the transitional surfaces. The
surfaces extend outward and upward to ninety-degree angles to the runway centerline and the runway
centerline extended, at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the
primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces. Transitional
zones for those portions of the precision approach zones which project through and beyond the limits of
the conical surface extend a distance of five thousand feet, measured horizontally from the edge of the
approach zones and at a ninety-degree angle to the extended runway centerline.




19.70.130 - Transitional zones—Height limitations.

A.    The height limitation in a transitional zone slopes upward and outward seven feet horizontally for
     each foot vertically, beginning at the side of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
     the approach zones, and extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation.
B.    In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping upward and outward seven
     feet horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation of the
     approach zones, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
C.    Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, height
     limits sloping upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically shall be maintained
     beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the precision instrument runway approach
     surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand feet, measured at a ninety-degree
     angle to the extended runway centerline.




19.70.140 - Horizontal zone—Established.

A.    Horizontal zones are hereby established as that area the perimeter of which is constructed by
     swinging arcs of specified radii from a point on the centerline and two hundred feet beyond each end
     of each runway, and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs.
B.    The radius of each arc is five thousand feet for all runways designated as utility or visual, and ten
     thousand feet for all other runways. The radius of the arc specified for each end of a runway will
     have the same arithmetical value. That value will be the highest determined for either end of the
     runway. When a five-thousand-foot arc is encompassed by tangents connecting two adjacent ten-
     thousand-foot arcs, the five-thousand-foot arc shall be disregarded in determining the horizontal
     zone.
C.   The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.


                                                                                                 Page 168
19.70.150 - Horizontal zone—Height limitations.

    The height limitation in a horizontal zone shall be one hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation.




19.70.160 - Conical zone—Established.

      Conical zones are hereby established as the area that commences at the periphery of the horizontal
zone and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of four thousand feet. The conical zone does
not include the precision instrument approach zones and the transitional zones.




19.70.170 - Conical zone—Height limitations.

     The height limitation of the conical zone shall slope upward and outward twenty feet horizontally for
each foot vertically, beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet above
the airport elevation, and extending to a height of three hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation.




19.70.180 - Height limitations—Applicability.

     Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or maintenance of
any tree or structure to a height consistent with the terms of this chapter.




19.70.190 - Airport restriction zones—Established.

    Airport restriction zones are established as follows:
    A.   Airport Restriction Zone A is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to the most
         severe levels of aircraft noise.
    B.    Airport Restriction Zone B is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to severe
         levels of aircraft noise.
    C.    Airport Restriction Zone C is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to moderate
         levels of aircraft noise.
    D.   Airport Restriction Zone D is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to noise from
         aircraft operating on a primary flight track.
    E.   Airport Restriction Zone E is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to noise from
         aircraft operating on a heavily used aircraft traffic pattern.




19.70.200 - Airport restriction zones—Incompatible uses.




                                                                                                   Page 169
A.   Except as provided for in this chapter, no structure or use of land shall be erected, altered or utilized
     in any airport restriction zone so as to create an incompatible use, as hereinafter established for
     such zones. In addition, any development within Airport Restriction Zones A, B, C, D or E requires an
     aviation easement.
B.   For this purpose, "development" means and is defined as subdivision of property and as construction
     of buildings on vacant property, except on improved subdivided property recorded as of the effective
     date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
C.   Airport Restriction Zone A. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Residential uses;
     2.   Commercial uses, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least twenty-five
          db of sound attenuation;
     3.   Institutional uses, such as schools, hospitals, churches and rest homes;
     4.   Hotels and motels, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least thirty db of
          sound attenuation in sleeping areas, and at least twenty-five db of sound attenuation elsewhere.
D.   Airport Restriction Zone B. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Residential uses, except residences in agricultural zones with air circulation systems, and at
          least twenty-five db of sound attenuation;
     2.    Institutional uses such as schools, hospitals, churches and rest homes, except those
          constructed with air circulation systems and at least twenty-five db of sound attenuation;
     3.   Hotels and motels, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least twenty-five
          db of sound attenuation in sleeping areas.
E.   Airport Restriction Zone C. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Residential uses, except those constructed with air circulation systems;
     2.   Mobile homes, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least twenty db of
          sound attenuation;
     3.    Institutional uses such as schools, hospitals, churches and rest homes, except those
          constructed with air circulation systems.
F.   Airport Restriction Zone D. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Low-density residential and school uses except those constructed with air circulation systems.
G.   Airport Restriction Zone E. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   No restrictions, except aviation easements are required.




19.70.210 - Permits—Required when.

     All uses shall obtain permits before construction or installation, as required by other county
ordinances.




19.70.220 - Permits—Issuance conditions.

    No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard, or
permit a nonconforming use or structure to be made or become higher or become a greater hazard to air



                                                                                                    Page 170
navigation than it was on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, or any amendment
thereto, or than it is when the application for a permit is made.




19.70.230 - Use restrictions.

     Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no use may be made of land or water within the
county that will create any electrical interference with navigational signals for radio communication
between the airport and the aircraft, making it difficult for pilots to distinguish airport lights and others,
resulting in glare in the eyes of the pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or
otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft
intending to use the airport.




19.70.240 - Hazard marking and lighting.

     Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of
this chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the
structure or tree in question to permit the property owner at his own expense to install, operate and
maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an
airport hazard.




19.70.250 - Nonconforming uses—Provisions not retroactive.

     The regulations prescribed in this chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or
other changes or alterations in any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective
date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a
nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the construction, alteration or
intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter and which is diligently prosecuted.




19.70.260 - Nonconforming uses—Marking and lighting.

     Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 19.70.250, the owner of any existing nonconforming
structure or tree is required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers
and lights as shall be deemed necessary, by the airport manager, to indicate to the operators of aircraft in
the vicinity of the airport hazards.




19.70.270 - Nonconforming uses—Permit issuance restrictions.

     Whenever the county development services director determines that a nonconforming structure has
been abandoned for a period of twelve consecutive months, or physically deteriorated as defined in
Section 203 of the Uniform Building Code, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure to
exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.




                                                                                                         Page 171
19.70.280 - Conflicting provisions—Resolution.

      Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this chapter
and any other regulations applicable to the same area, including land use zoning, whether the conflict is
with respect to height of structure or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent
limitation or requirements shall govern and prevail. Also, where an area is covered by more than one
height limitation described in this chapter, the more-restrictive limitation shall prevail.




Chapter 19.71 - RESIDENTIAL COMPATIBILITY OVERLAY ZONE



19.71.010 - Purpose of provisions.

A.   The general purpose of the residential compatibility overlay zone ("RCOZ") is to promote public
     welfare and to balance neighborhood compatibility with the private property interests of those who
     wish to expand, develop, improve or otherwise make exterior modification to their residential
     property.
B.   Recognizing the wide variation of circumstances incident to a residential application and the need for
     architectural freedom, the county is adopting a three-tiered approach:
     1.   Option A provides for strict standards of height, area, and setback with permits issued by the
          Salt Lake County planning and development services division (the "division").
     2.   Option B allows the division to consider deviations from one or more of the standards provided
          in Option A based upon the compatibility of the proposed residential application with other
          houses in the immediate neighborhood.
     3.   Option C allows a planning commission to consider at a public hearing a special exception for
          unusual or extraordinary circumstances that justify deviations from one or more of the limitations
          under Options A and B.




19.71.020 - Overlay zone, scope and application.

A.   Geographic Area of Application. Maps delineating the boundaries of the RCOZ are attached to the
     ordinance from which this chapter derived as Appendix A and will remain on file with the division.
     Such maps, as amended, are a part of this title as if fully described and detailed herein. Additional
     areas may be approved by the county council.
B.   Development Activities Covered. The standards and regulations contained in this chapter shall apply
     to all residential development, exterior remodeling and new construction projects commenced after
     the effective date of this chapter in the RCOZ, according to the zones listed in Table I below.
C.   Applicability to Lots of Record. The standards and regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to
     all legally subdivided lots, including those that were recorded prior to the enactment of this chapter.
D.     Exemption for Previous Residential Development. Noncomplying additions or expansions of
     buildings or structures commenced or completed prior to the enactment of this chapter are exempt
     from the requirements of this chapter.




                                                                                                  Page 172
E.   Inconsistent Provisions. When the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with provisions found in
     any other chapters of county ordinances, the most restrictive provisions shall apply.




19.71.030 - Option A. General standards—Planning and development services review.

A.    Application. Any person seeking to build a new residential structure or to significantly reconstruct,
     renovate or rebuild an existing structure in any zone listed in Table I shall obtain land-use approval
     from the division. An applicant may seek a determination of the applicable limits under Option A from
     the division prior to the submission of any building plans.
B.   Standards. Unless applying for approval under Option B or Option C, all applications shall comply
     with the following minimum standards:
     1.   Maximum Building Height. Each point on the highest ridge of the structure shall be no more than
          that specified in Table I, column (b) for the zone in which the property is situated. Maximum
          building height shall be measured in feet from that point on the original grade vertically below
          the referenced ridge height (not including chimneys and vent stacks).
     2.   Maximum Lot Coverage. The lot coverage of all structures on the lot shall be not more than the
          percentages given in Table I, column (d).
     3.   Front Yard. The minimum front yard setback shall be as specified in the applicable Salt Lake
          County code.
     4.   Side Yard. The combined side yard setbacks for any main structure shall be at least twenty-five
          percent of the lot width with no side setback less than eight feet. For purposes of this provision,
          "lot width" is the diameter of the largest circle that can be inscribed entirely within the lot, not
          including streams, fioodplains, wetlands, areas of thirty percent slope or greater or other natural
          hazard areas. No extensions, bay windows or similar building elements may encroach into the
          required setbacks under Option A, except for (a) attached air conditioning units, electrical
          boxes, utility meters and the like and (b) roof overhangs or eaves that extend no more than two
          feet into the area of the minimum side setback.
     5.   Rear Yard. The minimum rear setback of the primary residence and any accessory building
          shall be as specified in the applicable Salt Lake County code.
     6.   Building Envelope. The height of all structures is further limited by the building envelope created
          by starting at a point eight feet above ground at each point on the property line of the lot and
          extending on a line at a forty-five degree angle from the vertical toward the interior of the lot, the
          projection of such line on the horizontal plane of the lot to be perpendicular to the property line.
          The entire building must fit under this envelope except for dormers and gables that satisfy the
          following limitations:
          a.   A dormer may exceed the graduated height envelope, provided:
               i.     The width of the dormer is no more than fourteen feet;
               ii.    With multiple dormers, the distance to the front, or side edges of the roof is at least
                      one-half the distance between dormers; and
               iii.    The dormer is no higher than the ridge of the roof.
          b.   A gable may exceed the graduated height envelope, provided:
               i.     The height of the gable is no more than 1.75 times higher than the point where the
                      graduated height envelope intersects the gable; and
               ii.    The height of the gable is less than the maximum building height.




                                                                                                      Page 173
     7.   Mass and Scale. To avoid a large, continuous building mass of uniform height; no portion of any
          building shall continue more than forty feet horizontally without a minimum of an eighteen-inch
          break in the roofline or an architectural element such as an overhang, projection, inset, material
          and textural change to create shadow patterns along the elevation of the building. The elements
          required by this section are in addition to all other requirements under this Part.
     8.   Accessory Building. The highest ridge point of any accessory building shall be no more than
          twenty feet above the original grade vertically below it. All other requirements for auxiliary
          structures shall be as specified in the applicable Salt Lake County code.
     9.    The following figure depicts selected building limitations as described above and is for
          illustrative purposes only:




19.71.040 - Option B. Deviations from general standards based on neighborhood compatibility.

A.    Application. To obtain division approval of deviations from one or more of the requirements of
     19.71.030.B.1, B.2, B.3 or B.4, an applicant must file a separate application in compliance with the
     corresponding conditions of 19.71.040.D. 1, D.2, D.3 or D.4. An applicant may seek a pre-
     determination of the allowable deviations for proposed construction under Option B from the division
     prior to submitting building plans.
B.   Evidence. Compliance with the corresponding conditions of Option B must be established by reliable
     photographic, engineering, architectural or other evidence from the proximate neighborhood.
C.   Deviations from Other Option A Requirements. No deviations from the Option A requirements of
     19.71.030.B.5 through B.8 may be approved by the division.
D.   Permissible deviations from maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and minimum front
     and side setbacks under Option B are:
     1.   Maximum Building Height. The maximum building height that may be approved by the division
          under Option B is the lesser of:




                                                                                                  Page 174
          a.    Three feet plus the average maximum ridge height of residential structures that are on six
                lots of applicant's choice that:
                i.      Are within the proximate neighborhood of the subject property, as defined in section
                        19.71.060.B; and
                ii.     For which the applicant provides adequate evidence of the maximum building height,
                        as defined in this chapter; or
          b.   The heights specified in column (c) of Table I for the applicable zone.
     2.   Maximum Lot Coverage. The maximum lot coverage is 1.15 times the average of the lot
          coverage percentages of residential structures that are on six lots of applicant's choice that are
          within the proximate neighborhood of the subject property, such coverage not to exceed the
          percentages specified in Table I, column (e) for the applicable zone.
     3.   Minimum Front Setback. The minimum front setback is the average of the front setbacks of
          residential structures that are on six lots of applicant's choice that are within the proximate
          neighborhood of the subject property.
     4.   Minimum Side Setbacks. Subject to the twenty-five percent requirement of 19.71.030.B.4, the
          minimum side setback is the average of the shorter side setback of residential structures that
          are on six lots of applicant's choice that are within the proximate neighborhood of the subject
          property, but in no event may it be less than six feet.
     5.   Approval of more than one deviation from subsections 19.71.040.D.1 through .4 must use the
          same six lots from the proximate neighborhood to support the requested deviations, whether or
          not requests for multiple deviations are in one or separate applications.
E.   Table I below summarizes and further defines lot coverage and distance in the various zones under
     Options A and B:
                                                     Table I

          Option A            Option B               Option A           Option B
                                                                                         Option B Proximate
Zone     Maximum             Maximum                Maximum Lot        Maximum Lot
                                                                                          Neighborhood (3)
 (a) Building Height (1) Building Height (1)        Coverage (2)       Coverage (2)
                                                                                                 (f)
             (b)                 (c)                    (d)                (e)

R-1-5          28 ft.                33 ft.             35%                40%                 100 ft.

R-1-6          28 ft.                33 ft.             35%                40%                 100 ft.

R-1-8          28 ft.                33 ft.             33%                38%                 150 ft.

R-1-
               30 ft.                35 ft.             31%                36%                 175 ft.
 10

R-1-
               32 ft.                37 ft.             25%                30%                 200 ft.
 21

R-1-
               35 ft.                40 ft.             23%                28%                 300 ft.
 43




                                                                                                    Page 175
R-2-
                  28 ft.               33 ft.             40%               45%                 100 ft.
6.5

R-2-8             28 ft.               33 ft.             38%               43%                 150 ft.

R-2-
                  30 ft.               35 ft.             35%               40%                 175 ft.
 10

 A-1              30 ft.               35 ft.             31%               36%                 175 ft.




       ;adv=6;(1)      Main dwelling
       (2)   All structures
       (3)   Radial distance from property boundaries




19.71.050 - Option C. Special Exception—Planning commission review.

A.     An applicant whose proposed residential structure meets neither the requirements of Option A nor of
       Option B may seek extraordinary relief and exceptions to the limitations of sections 19.71.030.B.5,
       B.6, or B.7 or sections 19.71.040.D.1, D,2, D.3 or D.4 by submitting an original and seven copies of
       an application to the applicable planning commission setting forth in detail:
       1.    The specific provisions from which the applicant seeks exceptions and the requested relief;
       2.    Detailed information and explanation establishing that:
             a.    The proposed residence will be in harmony with the purpose of this chapter, the general
                   plan and any other land use document applicable to the area.
             b.    The proposed residence will be compatible with existing residential development within a
                   reasonable distance in terms of height, mass and lot coverage, with particular focus on the
                   proximate neighborhood.
             c.   The proposed residence will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of
                  persons residing within a reasonable distance, with particular focus on the proximate
                  neighborhood.
             d.    Each point on the highest ridge of the structure will be no more than forty feet above the
                   point on the original grade vertically below it (with allowances for chimneys and vent
                   stacks).
             e.   The front yard setback will be at least eighteen feet.
       3.    Additional factors that the planning commission may consider in deciding whether to grant an
             exception under this Part include:
             a.   Unusual lot shape;
             b.   Unusual or difficult terrain;
             c.   Drainage problems;
             d.   Situations that appear not to be clearly addressed by the provisions of Options A or B.


                                                                                                     Page 176
     4.    An application for an exception under this Option C will be subject to a public evidentiary
           hearing before the planning commission, for which notice of no less than ten days prior to the
           hearing will be given to:
           a.   All property owners appearing on the latest plat in the Salt Lake County recorder's office
                who own property within three hundred feet of the boundary of the subject lot; and
           b.   The chair of the community council for the area in which the subject lot is located.
B.    A decision on the application shall be based on the evidence presented at the hearing. The burden
     of proof shall rest with the applicant. The planning commission may impose such conditions and
     limitations upon the approval of an exception to the requirements of this chapter necessary to
     prevent or mitigate adverse effects on other properties in the neighborhood of the subject properties,
     consistent with the standards of this chapter.




19.71.060 - Definitions.

     For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     A.    "Residential lot" means a legal lot included in one of the zones listed in Table I, column (a).
     B.    "Proximate neighborhood" of a subject lot means every residential lot, excluding the subject lot,
           which is within the distance from the subject lot specified in Table I, column (d). For the purpose
           of calculating maximum building height only, an immediately adjacent multi-resident structure
           such as an apartment or condominium building may be considered part of the proximate
           neighborhood.
     C.     "Lot coverage" means the measurement of land use intensity that represents the portion of the
           site occupied by the principal building and all accessory buildings, but excluding all other
           impervious improvements such as sidewalks, driveways, patios, decks and open porches.




Chapter 19.72 - FOOTHILLS AND CANYONS OVERLAY ZONE (FCOZ)




19.72.010 PURPOSE

          The general purpose of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone is to promote safe,
          environmentally sensitive development that strikes a reasonable balance between the rights and
          long-term interests of property owners and those of the general public. Specifically, these
          standards are intended to:

          A. Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of Emigration Canyon and prominent ridgelines as
             defined herein, contributing to the general attractiveness and, where appropriate, the
             commercial viability of these areas.

          B. Protect public health and safety by adopting standards designed to reduce risks associated
             with natural and man-made hazards.

          C. Provide efficient, environmentally sensitive, and safe vehicular and pedestrian
             movement.


                                                                                                       Page 177
      D. Encourage development that conforms to the natural contours of the land and minimizes the
           scarring and erosive effects of cutting, filling and grading on hillsides, ridgelines, and steep
           slopes.

      E. Balance private and commercial needs against the risk of destabilizing fragile soils, defacing
         steep slopes, and degrading water quality.

      F. Minimize disturbance to existing trees and vegetation, conserve wildlife habitat, protect
         aquifer recharge areas, and otherwise preserve environmentally sensitive natural areas by
         encouraging clustering, the transfer of development rights, or other design techniques to
         preserve the natural terrain.

      G. Reduce flooding by protecting streams, drainage channels, absorption areas, and floodplains.

      H. Protect property rights and commercial interests.

      I.   Recognize the link between environmental protection and economic prosperity in the
           canyons.



19.72.020 APPLICABILITY

      A.       Geographic Area of Application

           Maps delineating the boundaries of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone are on file with
           the Planning and Development Services Division. Such maps, as amended, are incorporated
           into this Ordinance as if fully described and detailed herein.

      B.       Development Activities Covered

           The standards and requirements of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone apply to all
           development that occurs within the mapped Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone.
           Development includes all land disturbance activities such as grading, clearing, and
           excavation.

      C.       Jurisdictional Exemptions

           These provisions do not apply to properties owned by the State of Utah or the government of
           the United States, except as specifically authorized by state or federal statute or regulation,
           intergovernmental agreement, or other form of cooperative agreement.

      D.       Recognition of Salt Lake City Extraterritorial Jurisdiction

           Emigration Canyon Metro Township recognizes that Salt Lake City has extraterritorial
           jurisdiction for protection of its watershed located in the canyons east of Salt Lake City from
           City Creek Canyon south to Little Cottonwood Canyon. All development in the township
           impacting surface water, wells, storage facilities, or aquifers located within Salt Lake City
           watershed areas shall be referred to Salt Lake City to confirm compliance with applicable
           ordinances and watershed protection standards. If confirmation is not received within the
           time prescribed by this Ordinance for processing applications, the Planning Commission or



                                                                                                    Page 178
          Director may approve the application subject to confirmation being received prior to a building
          permit being issued. The Director shall notify other water providers of which the Director is
          aware that have protected watersheds in the metro township and may have authority over the
          proposed development within those areas. Notification shall include a copy of the
          application, any public hearing dates for the application, and contact information for the
          Planning and Development Services Division.




19.72.030 FCOZ DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PROCEDURES


     A.       Purpose

          The purpose of this section is to outline the site plan application and approval process
          required for all development or construction activity, including tree/vegetation removal and
          grading, or subdivision of land, in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone.

     B.       Joint Applications


          Where a process is already established by ordinance or agreement for review and approval
          of a land use application in the Foothills and Canyons (such as a subdivision, conditional use
          or permitted use site plan, development agreement, or variance process), applicable FCOZ
          standards shall be applied concurrently with the related application. If there is no related land
          use application under review, the applicant shall be subject to the following process.


     C.       Application Process

          1. Pre-Application Meeting

              a.        Purpose
                   An informal pre-application meeting with the Director is required prior to submitting a
                   site development plan application. The purposes of the pre-application meeting are to
                   provide an opportunity for the parties to discuss:

                   i.    The application submittal, review and approval process; and

                   ii.   The proposed development of the site and its relationship to site conditions and
                         area characteristics, including geologic, hydrologic, and environmental issues.


              b.         Scheduling of Pre-Application Meeting

                   To request a pre-application meeting, the applicant shall submit a pre-application
                   meeting request on a form provided by the Director, together with any required fees
                   and materials. Upon submittal of a complete application, the development proposal
                   shall be scheduled for discussion at a pre-application meeting.



                                                                                                 Page 179
        c.         Attendance


             In addition to the Director, other participants in the pre-application meeting may
             include representatives from the Health Department, County Engineer’s Office, Fire
             Department, Salt Lake City Department of Public Utilities, and any other person or
             entity the Director deems appropriate

     2. Site Development Plan

        a.         Application


             i.    Upon conclusion of the pre-application meeting process, an applicant seeking
                   approval of a development plan shall submit an application form, together with
                   required maps, plans, reports, special requests, and fees, to the Director. All
                   submitted materials shall be available for public review.

             ii.   Following documentation of assurances provided at the pre-application meeting
                   or field inspections, the Director may waive or modify submittal requirements
                   deemed unnecessary.

             iii. The Director may require additional information, as necessary, to substantiate
                  compliance with the provisions and standards of this Chapter and other
                  applicable codes and ordinances. For example, the Director may seek technical
                  and policy recommendations from other public agencies with related legal
                  jurisdiction such as the local health department; Utah Division of Wildlife
                  Resources; Utah Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands; U.S. Forest Service;
                  and U.S. Soil Conservation Service.


        b.         Staff Review

                   The Director shall review the development proposal for compliance with the
                   standards and processes of this ordinance, including Paragraph D below, and
                   shall document findings in a written report. The report shall specify all areas of
                   noncompliance with regulations together with any recommended modifications or
                   conditions of approval to mitigate detrimental impacts and bring the plan into
                   compliance, and shall be made available to the public and provided to the
                   applicant (unless specifically waived by the applicant) no less than 3 business
                   days prior to any applicable planning commission meeting.


D.      Approval Standards

     The following is a summary of site development plan review standards. An applicant’s failure
     to document compliance with any of the following may result in denial of a site development
     application.



                                                                                            Page 180
     1. The development is consistent with the purposes and intent of the policies, goals, and
        objectives of any applicable plan, including the Emigration Canyon General Plan and the
        Salt Lake County Regional Trails Plan;

     2. The site plan, grading, construction, and development activities comply with the
        mandatory requirements of the FCOZ, unless modifications or waivers have been
        expressly granted; or

     3. The development complies with all applicable development regulations, standards,
        requirements, or plans adopted by the local or state authority, including but not limited to
        water quality and wastewater regulations.

E.       Expiration of Site Development Plan/Issuance of a Building Permit

     1. A building permit issued pursuant to the FCOZ site development plan approval process
        must reference all conditions or stipulations applicable to such approval. All development,
        construction, and use shall be in accordance with the approved site development plan.

     2. An approved site development plan shall be valid for a period of twelve (12) months from
        the date of the final approval of the plan, unless authorized as a multi-phase
        development.

     3. A building permit may be obtained at any time within the twelve (12) month period
        beginning with the final approval of the site development plan. If substantial progress
        towards obtaining a building permit is not made within the twelve (12) month period, the
        final approval of the site development plan automatically lapses and the plan is null and
        void.

     4. A building permit issued for any phase of a development that has received site
        development plan final approval may extend the life of the site development plan for the
        entire development for an additional twelve (12) months from the date of issuance of the
        building permit. If any succeeding twelve (12) month period expires before a building
        permit application is filed for a subsequent phase or phases, then the site development
        plan approval automatically lapses and the plan is null and void as to all undeveloped or
        un-built phases of the development, unless substantial progress toward obtaining a
        building permit is demonstrated.


     5. Notwithstanding the requirements of subparagraph E.4, a twelve (12) month extension of
        the life of any phase of an approved site development plan may be obtained subject to
        paying an extension fee equal to the conditional use and subdivision extension fee in the
        Township Fee Schedule.


F.       Appeals




                                                                                          Page 181
              Pursuant to section 19.92.050 of this Title, any person adversely affected by a final
              decision of the director or planning commission may appeal that decision to the land use
              hearing officer.



19.72.040 UNDERLYING ZONING DISTRICT

      A. Conflicts. Unless specifically exempted or modified pursuant to the relevant ordinance for
         the underlying zone, all development shall comply with the standards and requirements of
         this Chapter.
      B. Division of Consolidated Lots. Previously platted lots that are consolidated into one
         taxable parcel may not be re-divided into lots smaller than the minimum area required in the
         underlying zone.
      C. Setbacks. Setbacks from property lines are established by the underlying zone. If no
         setbacks are established, an applicant seeking permission to locate a structure closer than
         ten (10) feet to a property line shall demonstrate that the structure will not place additional
         burden(s) on neighboring properties by addressing the following factors: snow storage and
         removal, drainage, access, fire protection, and building code.



19.72.050 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT

      A. General Requirements



          Cluster development is the grouping of residential properties on lots smaller than allowed in
          the underlying zone to reduce infrastructure costs and environmental impacts and to reserve
          otherwise developable land for open space or recreation. Whether proposed by an applicant
          or required by the Planning Commission, cluster development may only be approved upon
          satisfaction of all of the following conditions:

          1. The proposed cluster development meets all other applicable requirements set forth in
             the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone or in other applicable ordinances or regulations.

          2. The proposed cluster development, compared with a more traditional site plan, better
             attains the policies and objectives of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, such as
             providing more natural open space, preserving existing trees and vegetation coverage,
             and preserving sensitive environmental areas such as stream corridors, slide areas,
             prominent ridgelines, wetlands, and steep slopes.

          3. The proposed cluster development shall have minimal adverse impacts on adjacent
             properties, or, if such impacts may result, the applicant has agreed to implement
             appropriate mitigation measures such as landscape, screening, illumination standards,
             and other design features as recommended by the Director to buffer and protect adjacent
             properties from the proposed cluster development.




                                                                                                 Page 182
     4. The architecture, height, building materials, building colors, and other design features of
        the proposed cluster development blend with the surrounding natural landscape and are
        compatible with adjacent properties.



B.       Density Bonus for Cluster Development

     1. A cluster development density bonus of up to twenty-five percent (25%) over the base
        density permitted in the underlying zone may be available for cluster developments that
        satisfy the above standards in 19.72.050.A while taking into account the bonus density.

     2. The allowable density bonus for a cluster development is equal to twenty-five percent
        (25%) of the “net developable acreage”, and must be rounded to the nearest whole
        number, but in no case less than one (1).



C.       Cluster Development Design




     1. The undeveloped area of the cluster development site shall be preserved as active or
         passive natural open space. Natural open space areas shall conform to any adopted
         open space and/or trail plans, provide contiguity with adjacent natural open space and/or
         conservation areas, protect unique natural, historic, or cultural site features and
         resources, and avoid fragmentation of conservation areas within the cluster development
         site.

     2. The maximum number of lots allowed in a single cluster development is twenty (20) lots.
        Each cluster development shall be separated from other residential clusters by a
        minimum of one-hundred (100) feet.

     3. The layout of a cluster development site shall protect significant natural resources on or
        adjacent to the site. Significant natural resources include riparian areas, wetlands,
        ecological resources, steep slopes and ridgelines, and wildlife habitat and corridors. The
        overall cluster development site design shall employ the site’s natural topography to hide
        multiple residential clusters from the sight of adjacent cluster developments.

     4. The layout of a cluster development site shall preserve the open sky backdrop above any
        ridgelines and, where possible, significant views of the natural landscape as viewed from
        adjacent streets.



D.       Illustration of Cluster Development

     Figure 19.72.1: Cluster Development illustrates recommended cluster development.




                                                                                               Page 183
                                FIGURE 19.72.1: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT




19.72.060       SLOPE PROTECTION

       A.       Slope Protection Standards

            1. Unless otherwise allowed in this Title, no development activities, including clearing,
               excavation, grading, and construction, are allowed on slopes greater than thirty percent
               (30%).

            2. Structures shall be set back from ascending or descending slopes greater than thirty
               percent (30%) in accordance with the requirements of the current adopted building code.

       B.       Development on Ridgelines

            1. Unless otherwise allowed in this Chapter, no development may break the horizon line,
               defined as the point where the ridge visibly meets the sky as viewed from public rights-of-
               way or trails.

            2. Unless otherwise allowed in this Chapter, no development may be located within one-
               hundred (100) feet (map distance) from either side of the crest of a protected ridgeline
               designated as such in an adopted general plan or incorporated by other ordinance.

            3. Figure 19.72.2: Ridgeline Development illustrates recommended ridgeline development.


                           FIGURE 19.72.2: RIDGELINE DEVELOPMENT




                                                                                                 Page 184
C.       Natural Open Space within Steep Slopes

     Unless expressly allowed in this Chapter, all areas with a slope or slopes greater than thirty
     percent (30%) must remain in natural private or public open space, free of any development
     activities.

D.      Waiver of Slope Protection Standards for Lots of Record

     1. The Planning Commission may only waive or modify the following slope protection
        standards as applied to development on lots of record and in subdivisions that were
        approved prior to the effective date of this Chapter:

     a. Slope protection standards prohibiting development activities on slopes greater than thirty
        percent (30%) as set forth above in 19.72.060.A or in ridge line protection areas, as set
        forth above in 19.72.060.B(2).

     b. Limitations on the crossing of slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) by any street,
        road, private access road or other vehicular route, as set forth in Subsection 19.72.080.

     2. The Planning Commission may only waive or modify these standards upon satisfaction of
        the following criteria:

     a. Strict compliance with the above slope protection standards
        i. renders the site undevelopable;
        ii. results in substantial economic hardship not created by the applicant or otherwise
             self-imposed; or
        iii. results in a building location that requires excessive grading, vegetation removal, or
             driveway distances in conflict with the purposes of this Chapter.




                                                                                           Page 185
                                and

            b. The development (and related development activities) substantially conforms to all other
               development, site design, and environmental standards of this Chapter and in all other
               applicable ordinances and codes.

            3. In granting a waiver or modification from the slope and ridge line protection standards on
               lots of record, the Planning Commission may impose reasonable conditions to mitigate
               the impacts, if any, that the Planning Commission determines the proposed development
               has on adjacent properties and the surrounding environment.


       4. Notwithstanding its discretion to grant waivers or modifications for lots of record from the
          slope protection standards set forth in this Chapter, in no case shall the Planning
          Commission permit development other than roads on slopes greater than forty percent
          (40%).




19.72.070       GRADING STANDARDS

       A. Prior to the issuance of a building permit in accordance with a grading and excavation plan
          and report for the site approved by Planning and Development Services on behalf of the
          Township; no grading, excavation, or tree/vegetation removal is permitted, whether to provide
          for a building site, for on-site utilities or services, or for any roads or driveways.

       B. Figure 19.72.3: Cutting and Grading illustrates recommended development that minimizes
          cuts.



                              FIGURE 19.72.3: CUTTING AND GRADING




                                                                                                  Page 186
C. The original, natural grade of a lot may not be raised or lowered more than four (4) feet at any
   point for construction of any structure or improvement, except:

    1. The site's original, natural grade may be raised or lowered eight (8) feet if a retaining wall
       is used to reduce the steepness of man-made slopes, provided that the retaining wall
       complies with the requirements of subsection I below.

    2. The site's original, natural grade may be raised or lowered more than eight feet with
       terracing, as specified in subsection I below.

D. Separate building pads for accessory buildings other than private garages (such as barns, or
   recreational structures such as tennis courts, swimming pools, and similar facilities) are
   prohibited except where the natural slope is twenty percent (20%) or less.

E. The following limits apply to graded or filled man-made slopes:

    1. Slopes of twenty-five percent (25%) or less are encouraged wherever possible.

    2. Graded or filled man-made slopes may not exceed a slope of fifty percent (50%).

    3. Cut man-made surfaces or slopes may not exceed a slope of fifty percent (50%) unless it
       is substantiated, on the basis of a site investigation and submittal of a soils engineering
       or geotechnical report prepared and certified by a qualified professional, that a cut at a
       steeper slope will be stable and will not create a hazard to public or private property.

    4. All cut, filled, and graded slopes shall be re-contoured to the natural, varied contour of the
       surrounding terrain.

F. Any slope exposed or created in a new development shall be landscaped or re-vegetated
   pursuant to the standards and provisions of this Chapter.




                                                                                            Page 187
G. Excavation for footings and foundations shall be minimized to lessen site disturbance and
   ensure compatibility with hillside and sloped terrain. Intended excavation must be supported
   by detailed engineering plans submitted as part of the application for site plan approval.

H. Use of retaining walls is encouraged to reduce the steepness of man-made slopes and to
   provide planting pockets conducive to re-vegetation.

    1. If a single retaining wall is used, one (1) vertical retaining wall of up to eight (8) feet in
       height is permitted to reduce excavation and embankment.

    2. Terracing is limited to two (2) walls with a maximum vertical height of six (6) feet each.
       The width of a terrace shall be a minimum of a one to one (1:1) ratio with the height of the
       wall. Terraces are measured from the back of the lower wall to the face of the upper wall.
       Terraces created between retaining walls shall be permanently landscaped or re-
       vegetated as required by this Chapter.

        Figure 19.72.4: Terracing and Retaining Walls illustrates recommended terracing.

                FIGURE 19.72.4: TERRACING & RETAINING WALLS




                                                                                               Page 188
     3. Retaining walls shall be faced with stone or earth-colored materials similar to the
        surrounding natural landscape, as required by the design standards of this Chapter.

     4. All retaining walls shall comply with the minimum standards of the International Building
        Code.

I.   Except for restoration and maintenance activities authorized by the State Engineer (Utah
     Division of Water Rights) and County Flood Control Division, filling or dredging of water
     courses, wetlands, gullies, stream beds, or stormwater runoff channels is prohibited. Bridge
     construction is allowed pursuant to the standards set forth in this Section.

J. Where detention basins and other storm and erosion control facilities are required, any
   negative visual and aesthetic impacts on the natural landscape and topography shall be
   minimized. See Figure 19.72.5: Recommended Detention Basin Treatment which illustrates
   recommended treatment.

     1. Detention basins shall be free form, following the natural landforms. If such forms do not
        exist, the basin shall be shaped to emulate a naturally formed depression.

     2. Redistributing soils from detention basin construction to natural side slopes around the
        perimeter of the basin is encouraged. Side slopes are limited to a maximum slope of 3:1.
        These slopes are created to filter, redirect or soften views of the detention basin. Total
        screening of detention basins is not required. Side slopes shall be varied to replicate
        natural conditions.


     3. Naturalized planting themes are required for detention basins. Trees and shrubs may be
         grouped in informal patterns to emulate the natural environment but may not reduce the
         volume of the basin.




                                                                                          Page 189
            4. The ground surface of the detention basin and surrounding disturbed areas shall be
               covered with native grass mixture or other appropriate groundcover. It is the intent to
               provide a natural cover that does not require regular mowing or fertilization.

            5. Appropriate erosion control measures are required on all slopes.


                FIGURE 19.72.5: RECOMMENDED DETENTION BASIN TREATMENT




19.72.080       SITE ACCESS

       A. Motor vehicle access to a building or development site shall be by road (including private
          access road), street, alley, or driveway. Any road, street, alley, or driveway constructed after
          the enactment of this Chapter shall comply with the applicable requirements of this section.

       B. Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall comply with the Township Highway ordinance and
          fire authority regulations.

       C. Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways may not cross slopes averaging (in any fifty feet interval)
          between thirty percent (30%) and fifty percent (50%) unless specifically authorized by the
          Planning Commission, upon the favorable recommendation of the Director and Public Works
          Engineer, after finding that all of the following conditions and constraints are met:

            1. No alternate location for access is feasible or available.

            2. No individual segment or increment of the street, road, alley, or driveway in excess of one
               hundred (100) feet in length may cross slopes averaging between thirty percent (30%)
               and fifty percent (50%).




                                                                                                 Page 190
    3. The cumulative (total) length of individual segments or increments that cross slopes
       averaging between thirty percent (30%) and fifty percent (50%) may not exceed ten
       percent (10%) of the total length of the street, road, alley, or driveway.

    4. All crossings shall be designed and constructed to eliminate significant adverse
       environmental or safety impacts.

D. Under no circumstances shall any segment of a street, road, alley, or driveway cross slopes
   averaging greater than fifty percent (50%).

E. Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall follow natural contour lines where possible. If the
   natural contour lines do not reasonably facilitate access to the development site, a private
   access road or driveway may be designed and submitted for approval with a slope not to
   exceed the requirements set forth in Title 14 of the Township Code. Figure 19.72.6:
   Recommended Access Route Configuration illustrates the access route following natural
   contours.



      FIGURE 19.72.6: RECOMMENDED ACCESS ROUTE CONFIGURATION




F. Grading for streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall be limited to the paved portion of the
   right-of-way, plus up to an additional ten (10) feet on either side of the pavement as
   approved. However, when developing access on slopes in excess of twenty-five percent
   (25%), only the paved portion of the right-of-way used for vehicular travel, plus the minimum
   area required for any additional improvements, such as curb, gutter or sidewalk, may be
   graded. The remainder of the access right-of-way must be left undisturbed.

G. Streets or roads may be required to provide access or maintain existing access to adjacent
   lands for vehicles, pedestrians, emergency services, and essential service and maintenance
   equipment.

H. Private access roads and driveways shall ensure safe, convenient and adequate access to
   individual buildings. Driveway access to a development must be consistent with Township


                                                                                           Page 191
            general plans. In addition, the provision of private access road and driveway access is
            subject to the following requirements:

            1. All private access roads and driveways shall comply with the Township Highway
               ordinances and fire authority regulations.

            2. All private access roads and driveways greater than one-hundred fifty (150) feet in length
               shall meet the following requirements:

                a. Provide a turnaround that meets the Township's road/street and fire authority
                   standards.

                b. Provide an adequate number of spaced turn-outs along the length of the private
                   access road or driveway, as determined by the Public Works Engineer in consultation
                   with the fire authority.

            3. If variation from the above standards is sought, the applicant shall apply for a written
               Code Modification Approval from the fire authority that specifies any additional
               requirements that must be completed prior to construction.

            4. Shared private roads and driveways are encouraged between adjacent lots.

            5. Private access roads and driveways to a building site shall have direct access to a public
               street or to a private right-of-way previously approved by the Planning Commission.

            6. Finished grades shall comply with the following:

                a. Finished private access roads and driveways are limited to a maximum grade of
                   twelve percent (12%), or as determined by the Public Works Engineer on a case-by-
                   case basis based on health and safety concerns and the need for adequate access
                   for Township service providers. In no case, however, may the Public Works Engineer
                   approve a maximum grade greater than fifteen percent (15%).

                b. Private access road and driveway grades within twenty (20) feet of the roadway are
                   limited to ten percent (10%) slope.

            7. The Director, in behalf of the Township, has discretion to administratively offer relief of
               the driveway access standards by a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) where
               applicable upon satisfaction of the following criteria:

                a. The modification is designed to yield:

                    i.   More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian
                         areas, rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
                    ii. Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
                    iii. Better protection of wildlife habitat; OR,

                b. Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.



19.72.090       TRAILS




                                                                                                      Page 192
       A. All proposed development in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone shall be platted
          consistent with Township general plans regarding designated public trails, including those
          portions of the adopted Parks and Recreation Master Plan that designate public trails and
          public trail(s) access locations. A dedication of private land may be required for public trails
          and/or access to public trails if the required dedication complies with the exaction
          requirements set forth in Utah Code section 17-27a-507(1).

       B. All land offered for dedication for public trails or public access to trails must be verified on the
          ground by the Director before approval of the site plan. The Township has the option of
          rejecting an applicant's offered land dedication if the proposed dedication does not comply
          with the exaction requirements set forth in Utah Code section 17-27a-507(1), and all three
          requirements set forth in subsection (C) below, Further, in determining whether a proposed
          dedication may be accepted, the Township may identify more suitable land for the applicant’s
          consideration as a proposed dedication, provided that the proposed dedication complies with
          all three requirements set forth in subsection C.

       C.    Land offered for dedication for public trails and/or access to public trails must be located so
            that:

            1. Proposed trail construction and maintenance is feasible;

            2. Side slopes do not exceed seventy percent (70%); and

            3. Rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions are avoided.

       D. At the Township's sole option, dedications for public trails or access to public trails may be of
          a fee or less-than-fee interest to either the Township, another unit of government, or non-
          profit land conservation organization approved by the Township.

       E. The Township may allow a density bonus up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the maximum
          allowable density attributable to areas of the site with greater than thirty percent (30%) slope
          to be transferred to the developable areas of the site where the applicant demonstrates that
          the offered dedication is beyond what would be roughly proportional to the demand for such
          public trails or public trail access generated by the proposed development. The Township
          may reduce the applicable minimum lot area requirement within the site's developable area if
          necessary to accommodate the transferred density.



19.72.100       FENCES

       A. No fence may be constructed or installed unless shown on an approved site plan.
       B. Fences shall conform to the design standards of 19.72.170(W).
       C. Except as allowed in this section, no fence in excess of forty-two (42) inches in height may be
          constructed or installed. Fences are subject to the Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility
          restrictions of this Title.
       D. Exceptions:
            1. Fences within the established limits of disturbance, which are used to screen outdoor
               patio or services areas up to 900 square feet, may exceed 42 inches in height, provided
               they do not block identified wildlife corridors.



                                                                                                    Page 193
            2. Privacy barriers along Emigration Canyon Road may exceed 42 inches in height
               provided:
                a. The visual impact is mitigated by providing a 5-foot minimum horizontal articulation a
                   minimum of every 40 feet of linear fence or wall, or by providing landscaping between
                   the fence or wall and the road;
                b. The fence or wall is set back a minimum of 20 feet from the paved surface of the
                   road:
                c.   The fence or wall is compliant with section 19.76.160 - Intersecting streets and clear
                     visibility; and,
                d. The fence or wall contains a wildlife crossing opening at least 6 feet wide a minimum
                   of every 100 linear feet. This opening may be accomplished between fences or walls
                   on adjoining properties by setting each fence or wall 3 feet from the adjoining side
                   property line.
            3. The planning commission may approve fences that exceed the limits set forth in this
               Chapter as necessary to corral animals, to secure telecommunication facilities, public
               utilities, or other similar facilities, or to secure property upon finding that:
                a. There are topographic hardships unique to the property;
                b. Overriding public safety issues justify the proposed fence; or,
                c.   The purposes of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone respecting protection of
                     sensitive slopes, wildlife habitat, streams, and/or natural vegetation are better served
                     by approval of a site development plan that includes the proposed alternative fencing
                     design.
            4. In no case shall a fence or wall allowed under D.1 through D.3 above be taller than 7 feet
               in height.



19.72.110       TREE AND VEGETATION PROTECTION

       A.       Purpose

            Protection of existing tree and vegetation cover is intended to:

            1. Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of the canyon.

            2. Encourage site design techniques that preserve the natural environment and enhance
               the developed environment.

            3. Control erosion, slippage, and sediment run-off into streams and waterways.

            4. Increase slope stability.

            5. Protect wildlife habitat and migration corridors.

            6. Conserve energy, in proximity to structures, by reducing building heating and cooling
               costs.

       B.       Applicability

            These provisions apply to all development in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, with
            the following exceptions:


                                                                                                    Page 194
     1. The removal of dead or naturally fallen trees or vegetation to protect public health, safety,
        and welfare.

     2. The selective and limited removal of trees or vegetation necessary to obtain clear
        visibility at driveways or intersections, to perform authorized field survey work, or to
        protect structures from fire consistent with the Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code.

     3. The removal of trees or vegetation on land zoned or lawfully used for agricultural and
        forestry activities, including tree farms, or pursuant to approved forest management
        programs. In the event a site is substantially cleared of trees pursuant to such legitimate
        activities, no development or site plan applications for other types of development may be
        accepted by the Township within thirty-six (36) months from the date of the clearing.

     4. The Director, in behalf of the Township, has discretion to administratively offer relief of
        the standards in this section by up to 25% if either of the following circumstances applies:

         a. The modification is designed to yield:

             i.   More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas,
                  rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
             ii. Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
             iii. Better protection of wildlife habitat; OR,

         b. Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.

C.       Tree/Vegetation Removal

     1. Outside the Limits of Disturbance

         No trees or vegetation may be removed outside the approved limits of disturbance unless
         specifically exempted by this Section.

     2. Within the Limits of Disturbance

         Significant trees removed from within the limits of disturbance shall be replaced as set
         forth in this Section.

     3. Wildfire Hazards and Tree/Vegetation Removal

              Defensible space is defined as the required space between a structure and wildland
         area that, under normal conditions, creates a sufficient buffer to slow or halt the spread of
         wildfire to a structure. Appropriate defensible space surrounding a structure is
         established in Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code incorporated in UFA Wildland-Urban
         Interface Site Plan/Development Review Guide. A copy of the approved fire protection
         plan shall be submitted to the Director for incorporation into the final approval documents.
     4. Tree/Vegetation Removal for Views Prohibited

         No trees or vegetation may be removed solely for the purpose of providing open views to
         or from structures on a site.




                                                                                            Page 195
D.       Replacement of Significant Trees

     1. When a significant tree, as defined in Section 19.72.200, is removed from inside the
        established limits of disturbance, which removal is not required by wildland-urban
        interface standards referenced in C.3 above, the applicant or developer shall replace
        such tree(s) on the development site, according to the following schedule and
        requirements:

         a. A significant tree that is removed shall be replaced by two trees with a minimum size
            of one inch caliper for deciduous trees and a minimum height of four feet for
            coniferous trees in locations on the lot that are appropriate, feasible, and practical,
            and that comply with fire requirements and standards, as determined by the Director.

         b. Replacement trees shall be maintained through an establishment period of at least
            two (2) years. The applicant shall post a bond in the amount of ten percent (10%) of
            the value of all replacement trees guaranteeing their health and survival during the
            first year of the establishment period.

     2. If the remainder of the lot outside the permitted limits of disturbance is heavily wooded,
        defined as areas of trees with canopies that cover eighty percent (80%) of the area, and
        is not suitable to the planting of replacement trees, the requirement to plant replacement
        trees requirement may be waived by the Director.

     3. Planting replacement trees may be allowed by the Director on parcels within the
        subdivision or adjoining open space or forest service land upon the written consent of the
        property owner or representative of the property owner of the parcel(s) where the trees
        are being planted. In order to minimize disturbance of public land, saplings may be used
        in lieu of the larger trees listed in 1(a) above at the rate of 10 saplings per required
        replacement tree, for trees planted on publicly owned land.

E.       Revegetation and Land Reclamation Plan

     1. On a parcel of land that has been or will be altered from its natural condition by man-
        made activities, a revegetation and land reclamation plan prepared and certified by a
        qualified professional may be required for review and approval by the Director. The plan
        shall incorporate the elements of the fire protection plan, and shall indicate a timeframe
        for revegetation that is acceptable to the Township and that takes into account optimal
        seasonal growing conditions.

     2. The revegetation and land reclamation plan shall depict the type, size, number, and
        location of any vegetation and trees to be planted and illustrate how the site will be
        recontoured with sufficient topsoil to ensure that vegetation is successful. All new trees
        shown on the plan shall:

         a. Comply with the Vegetation Clearance Guidelines of the Wildland-Urban
            Interface Code,
         b. Be spaced no closer than twenty (20) feet on center, and,
         c. Be on the Utah Fire Resistive Species list in the Wildland-Urban Interface Code.

     3. Any slope exposed or created in new development shall be landscaped or revegetated
        with native or adapted trees and plant material. New vegetation shall be equivalent to or



                                                                                          Page 196
         exceed the amount and erosion-control characteristics of the original vegetation cover in
         order to mitigate adverse environmental and visual effects.

     4. On man-made slopes of twenty-five percent (25%) or greater, plant materials with deep
        rooting characteristics shall be selected to minimize erosion and reduce surface runoff.
        The planting basin shall be kept level with a raised berm around the base of the plant to
        help retain moisture.

     5. Topsoil that is removed during construction may be conserved for later use on areas
        requiring revegetation or landscaping, such as cut-and-fill slopes.

     6. The land reclamation plan may not include landscaping or other elements that conflict
        with the approved fire protection plan.

F.       Tree/Vegetation Protection During Construction and Grading Activities

     1. Limits of disturbance, as established in Section 19.72.160, shall be shown on the final
        plans for development and shall be clearly delineated on site with fencing or other
        separation methods approved by the Director prior to the commencement of excavation,
        grading, or construction activities on the site.

     2. Within the limits of disturbance, fencing, at a minimum, shall be placed around each
        significant tree that will not be removed and around stands of twelve (12) or more smaller
        trees. Such fencing shall be placed at the edge of the individual or outermost tree's drip
        zone. No construction, grading, equipment or material storage, or any other activity is
        allowed within the drip zone, and the fencing must remain in place until all land alteration,
        construction, and development activities are completed.

     3. If it is necessary to fill over the root zone, compacted soils shall be avoided by
        sandwiching fabric, rocks, and more fabric under the area to be filled.

     4. If fill creates a tree well or depression around a tree or shrubs, such area shall be filled in
        or drained so that the vegetation is not drowned by the pooling of rainfall or irrigation.

     5. If a significant tree that will not be removed has roots that are cut, the branches shall be
        trimmed by an amount equal to the percent of roots that were lost. Cutting more than
        thirty percent (30%) is prohibited. Roots shall be pruned cleanly prior to digging and not
        ripped off by heavy equipment. If the tree whose roots have been cut dies within a two (2)
        year period, the replacement provision in section D above applies.

     6. Utility trenches near trees shall be avoided. If a line must be near a tree, tunneling,
        auguring, or other mitigation measures shall be used.

G.       Tree Removal Not Authorized by this Section

     1. If a significant tree(s) is removed contrary to any provision in this section, the person(s)
        responsible for the removal shall pay to the Township the value of the tree(s).

         a. The value of the tree(s) shall be determined by a tree appraiser who is an ISA
            (International Society of Arboriculture) certified arborist with at least five years of
            experience appraising trees using the appraisal methods outlined in the current
            edition of “The Guide for Plant Appraisal,” authored by the Council of Tree and


                                                                                              Page 197
                      Landscape Appraisers (CTLA). The appraiser shall prepare an appraisal report using
                      these methods, and adding to the value from these methods an analysis of the
                      tree(s) contributory value, i.e., the value that the tree(s) contributed to the overall
                      value of the property on which they were located.

                 b. The appraiser shall be chosen by the person(s) responsible for the removal and the
                    Director, in behalf of the Township.

                 c.   The person(s) responsible for the removal shall pay the cost of the appraisal.

            2.   If a significant tree(s) is removed contrary to this section, all development and permitting
                 and processing of the relevant land use application shall be put on hold for up to sixty
                 (60) days from the date of Township’s discovery of removal. During that time, the
                 Director, in behalf of the Township, will inventory the significant tree(s) that were
                 removed, and the process of valuing the tree(s) that were removed shall commence,
                 pursuant to paragraph 1 above.


            3. The person(s) responsible for removing the significant tree(s) shall pay for the cost of site
               restoration, including the removal of the stump(s). The stump(s) may not be removed until
               an appraisal is completed pursuant to paragraph 1 above.

            4. The person(s) responsible for removing the significant tree(s) shall also replace the tree(s)
               in accordance with the provisions in this section. The bond referenced in subsection
               (D)(1)(b) of this section shall be a surety bond for those that unlawfully remove trees.


            In addition to the civil penalties provided in paragraphs 1 – 4 of this subsection (G), the
            person(s) responsible for removing the significant tree(s) may also be subject to criminal
            prosecution as a Class B misdemeanor for each significant tree unlawfully removed.


19.72.120        NATURAL HAZARDS

       A natural hazards report, together with geotechnical, slope, soils, and grading reports, may be
       required as provided in 19.75,030 “Geological Hazards” and Chapter 19.74 “Floodplain Hazards.”
       The Director may require, consistent with the above ordinances, that preliminary conditions be
       satisfied prior to final approval of the site plan.



19.72.130        STREAM CORRIDOR AND WETLANDS PROTECTION

       A.        Purpose

             The following requirements and standards are intended to promote, preserve, and enhance
             the important hydrologic, biological, ecological, aesthetic, recreational, and educational
             functions of stream corridors, associated riparian areas, and wetlands.

       B.        Applicability

             Unless previously delineated by Township, boundaries for stream corridors and wetland
             areas are delineated according to the following standards:




                                                                                                     Page 198
     1. Stream corridor and wetland area delineation shall be performed by a qualified engineer
        or other qualified professional with demonstrated experience and expertise to conduct the
        required site analysis. Delineations are subject to the approval of the Director.

     2. Stream corridors shall be delineated at the ordinary high-water mark. Stream corridors do
        not include irrigation ditches that do not contribute to the preservation and enhancement
        of fisheries or wildlife.

     3. Boundary delineation of wetlands are established using the current Federal Manual for
        Identifying and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands jointly published by the U.S.
        Environmental Protection Agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Army Corps of
        Engineers, and the Soil Conservation Service.

C.       Prohibited Activities

     No development activity may be conducted that disturbs, removes, fills, dredges, clears,
     destroys, or alters, stream corridors or wetlands, including vegetation, except for restoration
     and maintenance activities allowed in this Chapter as approved by Salt Lake County Flood
     Control, the Utah State Engineer’s Office (Division of Water Rights), and other applicable
     authorities.

D.       Setbacks

     1. Perennial Stream Corridors

         All buildings, accessory structures, parking lots, and all on-site wastewater disposal
         systems shall be set back at least one-hundred (100) feet horizontally from the ordinary
         high-water mark of perennial stream corridors. (See Figure 19.72.7: Setback from Stream
         Corridor)



                FIGURE 19.72.7: SETBACK FROM STREAM CORRIDOR




                                                                                            Page 199
     2. Wetlands

         All buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots shall be set back at least fifty (50)
         feet, and all on-site wastewater disposal systems shall be set back at least one-hundred
         (100) feet horizontally from the delineated edge of a wetland.

     3. Ephemeral Streams

         Leach fields shall be set back 100 feet from the channel of an ephemeral stream. All
         buildings, accessory structures, and parking areas or parking lots shall be set back at
         least 50 feet from the channel of an ephemeral stream. The Director may recommend to
         the land use authority modifications to this prohibition upon finding that the modification is
         likely to cause minimal adverse environmental impact or that such impact may be
         substantially mitigated. For properties located within the Salt Lake City watershed, the
         Director shall consult with Salt Lake City Public Utilities prior to making a
         recommendation.

     4. Natural Open Space/Landscape Credit for Setback Areas

         All setback areas are credited toward any relevant private natural open space or
         landscape requirements, but are not credited toward public trail access dedication
         requirements.

E.       Preservation of Vegetation

     All existing vegetation within the stream corridor or wetland setback area shall be preserved
     to provide adequate screening or to repair damaged riparian areas, supplemented where
     necessary with additional native or adapted planting and landscaping.

F.       Bridges

     Any bridge over a stream corridor and within the stream setback area may be approved,
     provided the Director affirms that the bridge is planned and constructed in such a manner as
     to minimize impacts on the stream corridor.




                                                                                             Page 200
G.       Modification of Setbacks

     1. The Director, in behalf of the Township, has discretion to administratively reduce the
        perennial stream corridor and wetlands setbacks by a maximum of twenty-five percent
        (25%) where applicable upon satisfaction of the following criteria:

         a. The modification is designed to yield:

              i. More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian
                 areas, rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;

             ii.   Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or

             iii. Better protection of wildlife habitat; OR,
         b. Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.


H.      Perennial Stream Corridor and Wetland Setback Requirements for Lots of Record

     1. Existing Legally-Established Structures
        A structure legally existing on the effective date of this Ordinance that is within fifty (50)
        feet of a perennial stream corridor or wetland may be renovated, altered, or expanded or
        reconstructed if damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, or act of nature as follows:
        a. Renovations or alterations or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure that
            will not increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure are permitted.
        b. Renovations, alterations, or expansions that will increase the gross floor area of the
            original, existing structure are limited to a cumulative total expansion of no more than
            250 square feet of gross floor area located closer than 50 feet to a perennial stream
            corridor or wetland.
        c. Renovations, alterations, expansions, or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed
            structure that increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure but which
            are no closer than fifty (50) feet to a perennial stream corridor or wetland are
            permitted, subject to compliance with all other applicable regulations and standards.

     2. New Structures
        For new developments, the Director may authorize construction to no closer than fifty
        (50) feet from a perennial stream corridor or to no closer than twenty-five (25) feet from a
        wetland subject to the following criteria:

         a. Denial of an encroachment of more than the twenty-five percent (25%) into the
            stream or wetlands setback area allowed by 19.72.130(G) would render the site
            undevelopable.

         b. No alternative location for the development further away from the stream or wetland
            is feasible or available.

         c. Creative architectural or environmental solutions have been incorporated into the
            development proposal in order to ensure that the purposes of stream corridor
            protection, as set forth in Subsection 19.72.130 are achieved.

         d. No federal or state laws, or other County ordinances or regulations are violated.


                                                                                              Page 201
            3. Limitation

                In allowing for the preceding improvements, the Director may not:

                a. Increase the maximum limits of disturbance set forth in Subsection 19.72.160.

                b. Authorize the encroachment of more than five-hundred (500) square feet of gross
                   floor area of structural improvements (cumulative total) within the land area between
                   seventy-five (75) feet and fifty (50) feet from a perennial stream corridor or within the
                   land area between fifty (50) and twenty-five (25) feet of a wetland.




19.72.140       WILDLIFE HABITAT PROTECTION

       A.       Purpose

            The Township’s foothills and canyon areas provide important wildlife habitat for a wide variety
            of animal and bird species. In combination with the tree/vegetation and stream
            corridor/wetlands protection standards, the following requirements have been developed to
            promote and preserve valuable wildlife habitats and to protect them from adverse effects and
            potentially irreversible impacts.

       B.       Development Limitations in Areas of Critical Habitat


            All development subject to these provisions shall incorporate the following principles in
            establishing the limits of disturbance and siting buildings, structures, roads, public trails, and
            other similar facilities:

            1. Facilitate wildlife movement across areas dominated by human activities by:

                a. Maintaining connections between adjacent natural open space parcels and areas,
                   and between natural open space parcels and areas in close proximity.

                b. Prohibiting fencing types that inhibit the movement of wildlife species.


            2. Mimic features of the local natural landscape by:

                a. Minimizing disturbance to trees, the understory, and other structural landscape
                   features during construction.

                b. Providing selective plantings on the property that enhance the habitat value for the
                   endemic wildlife population.


19.72.150       TRAFFIC STUDIES



                                                                                                      Page 202
       A.       Traffic and Parking Impact Study Required

            A traffic and parking impact study is required as part of the site plan application for the
            following developments in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone:

            1. All residential development that creates a projected increase in traffic volumes equal to or
               greater than ten percent (10%) of current road/street capacity as determined by the
               Public Works Engineer.

            2. All non-residential development that creates a projected increase in traffic volumes equal
               to or greater than fifty (50) trip-ends per peak hour.

            3. All development that affects a roadway identified by the Transportation Engineering
               Manager as having an unacceptable level of service (LOS) based on AASHTO guidelines
               and the Highway Capacity Manual.

       B.       Review and Improvements

            The applicant of a proposed development that is subject to the traffic and parking impact
            study requirements of Section A must demonstrate that the peak hour levels of service on
            adjacent roadways and at impacted intersections after development will comply with current
            Township transportation and impact mitigation policies and recommendations.

       C.       Circulation and Access Plan

            The applicant of a proposed development that is subject to the traffic and parking impact
            study requirements of Section A must also provide a circulation and access plan to ensure
            free-flowing access to the development site and avoid congestion and unsafe conditions on
            adjacent public roads and streets. The circulation and access plan may be combined with the
            required traffic and parking impact study.



19.72.160       LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE

       A.       Scope and General Requirements

            "Limits of disturbance" must be established on the site plan application, indicating the specific
            area(s) of a site where construction and development activity must be contained. (See

                   FIGURE 19.72.8: ILLUSTRATION OF LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE




                                                                                                     Page 203
B.       Purpose for Limits of Disturbance

     Limits of disturbance are established for the following purposes:

     1. Minimizing visual impacts from the development including, but not limited to: screening from
        adjacent and downhill properties, ridgeline area protection, and protection of scenic views.

     2. Erosion prevention and control including, but not limited to, protection of steep slopes and natural
        drainage channels.

     3. Fire prevention and safety including, but not limited to, location of trees and vegetation near
        structures.

     4. Preservation of tree cover, vegetation, and the site’s natural topography.

     5. Conservation of water including, but not limited to, preservation of existing native vegetation,
        reduction in amounts of irrigated areas, and similar considerations.

     6. Wildlife habitat protection including, but not limited to, preservation of critical wildlife habitat and
        migration corridors and routes.

     7. Stream corridor and wetland protection and buffering.

C.       Limits of Disturbance May Be Noncontiguous

     Limits of disturbance necessary to accommodate a proposed development may be noncontiguous in
     order to best achieve the above purposes.

D.       Maximum Limits of Disturbance




                                                                                                        Page 204
     1. For single family residential uses on lots or parcels less than one (1) acre in size, the limits of
        disturbance are limited to twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.

     2. For single family residential uses on lots or parcels one (1) acre in size or greater, the limits of
        disturbance are limited to twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, plus additional area equal to
        twenty percent (20%) of the acreage over one (1) acre but less than five (5) acres, five percent
        (5%) of the acreage over five (5) but less than ten (10) acres, and two percent (2%) of the
        acreage over ten (10) acres.

     3. For all other uses, the maximum limits of disturbance shall be determined by the Director on a
        case by case basis in harmony with the purposes of FCOZ as set forth in Section 19.72.010 and
        in subsection B of this section.

E.       Modification of Limits of Disturbance

     1. The Director, in behalf of the Township, has discretion to administratively increase the limits of
        disturbance by a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) where applicable upon satisfaction of the
        criteria set forth below:

         a. The modification is designed to yield:
            i. More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas, rock
                 outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
            ii. Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
            iii. Better protection of wildlife habitat; OR,

         b. Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.




19.72.170         FCOZ DESIGN STANDARDS

         A.       Purpose

              As stated in 19.72.010, the general purpose of design standards is to promote development
              that balances the rights of the landowner with protection of the foothill and canyon
              environment. These standards are intentionally broad to allow flexibility in design,
              compatibility with varying features of the natural landscape, and consistency with the
              following purposes:

              1. Preserve and enhance the beauty of the landscape by encouraging the retention of
                 natural topographic features, such as drainage swales, streams, slopes, ridge lines, rock
                 outcroppings, vistas, natural plant formations, trees, and similar features.

              2. Encourage planning and design of development and building sites that balances safety,
                 recreational opportunity, economic development, and enjoyment of property rights, while
                 adapting development to, and preserving natural terrain.

              3. Establish a foundation for development in sensitive lands to insure a more harmonious
                 relationship between man-made structures and the natural setting.




                                                                                                      Page 205
            4. Direct new development in the canyons and foothills toward areas meeting suitability
               criteria, as outlined in the Emigration Canyon General Plan.

       B.       Advisory or Mandatory Design Standards

            The development and design standards set forth in this Chapter fall into two (2) categories:
            “advisory” standards and “mandatory” standards. Design standards that are advisory
            encourage voluntary adaptation. Development within the Foothills and Canyons Overlay
            Zone shall comply with all of the mandatory standards unless alternative design is approved
            by the Planning Commission upon a finding that the alternative design is in harmony with the
            purposes of FCOZ. as stated in Section 19.72.010. The design standards and categories are
            summarized below in Table 19.72.1: FCOZ Design Standards.




                                 SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                           TABLE 19.72.1: FCOZ DESIGN STANDARDS


                                                       DESIGN STANDARDS

Mandatory       Advisory            A. Select an appropriate site
                               A site must be suitable for the type of building or use being planned
   X
                               without major alterations to the site.
                              Buildings or uses shall comply with this Ordinance and all applicable
                              state and federal laws, recognizing the natural or man-made restraints
   X                          on particular sites such as slope, soil instability, landslides, avalanche,
                              or flooding. (See, for example, Section 19.72.120 (Natural Hazards)
                              and Chapter 19.74 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations).)
                                   B. Site buildings in a manner that preserves existing land
Mandatory       Advisory               forms
                              See Figure 19.72.9
                              Each building should be located so that it does not dominate the
                    X         landscape. The best way to decrease visual impacts is to locate the
                              project as far away from prominent viewing locations as possible.
                              Visually prominent areas of the site shall be left in their natural
                              condition with the exception of areas necessary for access. Structures
   X
                              shall be screened using existing land forms and vegetation. (See
                              Subsection 19.72.110 (Tree and Vegetation Protection).)
                              Where practical, buildings should be placed in the following locations
                              on a site:
                              1. Within tree masses to screen buildings.
                    X         2. At the edge of trees or land masses overlooking natural open
                              space.
                              3. In open areas where they are not visible from roads, trails, or other
                              public lands.




                                                                                                   Page 206
                             SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                       TABLE 19.72.1: FCOZ DESIGN STANDARDS


                                                  DESIGN STANDARDS



                FIGURE 19.72.9: PRESERVE EXISTING LAND FORMS




                             C. Site buildings so they do not protrude into significant
Mandatory   Advisory             viewscapes.
                         See Figure 19.72.10
                         Buildings should be designed to fit their sites and to leave natural
                         massing and features of the landscape intact. Each building should be
               X
                         designed as an integral part of the site rather than an isolated object at
                         odds with its surroundings.
                         Where feasible, views should be maintained both to the site and to
                         features beyond, as seen from public rights-of-way, public trails, and
               X         other public lands. Projects should not be located on prominent
                         topographic features where they dominate views or unnecessarily
                         obscure the views of others.

                   FIGURE 19.72.10: PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT VIEWS




                                                                                              Page 207
                             D. Site buildings so their form does not break prominent
Mandatory   Advisory            skylines
                       See Figure 19.72.11
                       Buildings shall be sited at less visible places and designed so they are
                       not obtrusive, do not loom over the hillside, and do not break prominent
                       skylines from key vantage points. Skylines are ridges or hilltops on the
   X
                       horizon line that do not have backdrops behind them as viewed from key
                       vantage points. Heavily traveled public roads located below skylines or
                       hilltops are key vantage points.

                   FIGURE 19.72.11: RIDGELINE DEVELOPMENT




                           E. Site buildings to preserve significant trees and vegetation.
Mandatory   Advisory
                       See Figure 19.72.12
   X                   Buildings shall be sited to keep removal of significant trees and


                                                                                        Page 208
                       vegetation to a minimum. (See section 19.72.160 (Limits of disturbance),
                       19.72.110 (Tree and vegetation protection.)

              FIGURE 19.72.12: PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT VEGETATION




                            F. Cluster buildings and parking, and coordinate neighboring
Mandatory   Advisory
                                developments. See Figure 19.72.1
                       Clustering is encouraged to reduce land disturbance and the cost of
               X       providing services, road and parking area maintenance, snow removal,
                       etc. (See Section 19.72.080 (Site Access).)
                       Cooperative, coordinated development and the sharing of services,
               X       infrastructure, facilities, and parking among adjoining landowners is
                       encouraged.
                            G. Locate parking facilities to minimize their visual impact.
Mandatory   Advisory
                       See Figure 19.72.13
                       When visible from publicly used roads, parking facilities shall be
                       screened to blend into the natural environment. Parking lot design that
   X
                       requires backing onto a public street is prohibited. (See Section
                       19.72.080 (Site Access)
                       Parking facilities shall be located to the rear or side of main buildings if
   X
                       possible when a site has a lot width of 100 feet or more.
                       Parking facilities shall be designed consistent with the existing
   X
                       topography.
   X                   Parking facilities shall provide adequate snow storage areas.

                       FIGURE 19.72.13: PARKING LOCATION




                                                                                             Page 209
Mandatory   Advisory        H. Place utility lines underground
                       When possible, utilities shall be placed underground and within existing
   X                   roadways or in established shoulders to minimize the impact to existing
                       natural features, such as natural vegetative patterns and land forms.
                       Tree cutting for utility corridors shall be minimized to reduce visual
   X                   impacts. All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated. (See Section
                       19.72.110 (Tree and Vegetation Protection).)
                            I. Design buildings to solidly meet the ground plane.
Mandatory   Advisory
                       See Figure 19.72.14
                       Building designs that require a strong structural statement, such as
                       extensive cantilevers or cuts and fills, are prohibited on sensitive
   X
                       hillsides with slopes greater than thirty percent (30%), wetlands,
                       streams, or hillsides with soil instability consistent with this Ordinance.
                       Buildings shall firmly meet the ground. Placing buildings on piers such
   X                   that exterior walls do not continue down to the ground is prohibited, with
                       the exception of piers that support decks.

             FIGURE 19.72.14: STRUCTURES MEET THE GROUND PLANE




                                                                                            Page 210
                           J. Design buildings on hillsides to follow the natural terrain.
Mandatory   Advisory
                       See Figure 19.72.15
   X                   Buildings shall be located to minimize earth work and land disturbance.
                       Buildings shall be designed to follow natural contours rather than
   X                   modifying the land to accept a building design not tailored to the site.
                       (See Section 19.72.070 (Grading))

             Figure 19.72.15 STRUCTURE FOLLOWS HILLSIDE TERRAIN




                            K. Design buildings to minimize mass and scale
Mandatory   Advisory
                       See Figure 19.72.16
   X                   Building designs shall incorporate changes in the planes of walls and
                       changes in the slope and height of roof lines to add variety, create visual
                       interest, and minimize scale.
   X                   The massing of buildings shall be scaled to harmonize and achieve
                       balance with the natural features of the specific site.
   X                   Roof lines and building mass shall echo the angles and shapes repeated
                       in the natural landscape.
   X                   Building mass and wall lines shall be broken up to complement natural



                                                                                           Page 211
                       canyon settings and slopes.

                       FIGURE 19.72.16: MASS AND SCALE




Mandatory   Advisory        L. Select appropriate building materials and colors
                       Predominant tones on exterior walls shall tend toward neutral colors,
                       replicating natural textures – for example, warm earthy hues; dark green
   X                   of forests; whites, greys, and grey-brown of the mountains; the tan of
                       grasses; and similar colors. Bright, harshly contrasting color combinations
                       are prohibited. Paint finishes shall have low levels of reflectivity.
                       The use of self-weathering metals is encouraged. Chemically treating
               X
                       wood so that it can be allowed to self-weather is also encouraged.
                            M. Use fire-resistant roof surfacing materials that blend with the
Mandatory   Advisory
                                 colors of the adjacent landscape.
                       The color of roof surfacing materials shall blend with the surrounding
   X
                       landscape such as brown, tan, dark green, grey, etc.
                       Flammable wood roofing shingles are prohibited in the canyons or
   X
                       foothills.
Mandatory   Advisory        N. Preserve existing trees and vegetation
                       Significant trees and vegetation shall be preserved as provided in Section
   X
                       19.72.110.
                       When landscaping within the thirty (30)-foot fire-break area, the use of
               X
                       fire-resistant plants is strongly encouraged.
   X                   Dryland species of plants shall be selected for slope re-vegetation.
                            O. Landscape in order to retain the original character and
Mandatory   Advisory
                                 harmony among the various elements of a site.
                       Landscaping shall incorporate natural features such as trees, significant
   X                   vegetative patterns, interesting land forms, rocks, water, views, and
                       orientation.
                       Landscaped areas should be an integral part of the development project,
               X       and not simply located in left-over space on the site. New planting should
                       blend in with the existing landscape.
                       All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated using native or adapted plant
   X
                       species and materials characteristic of the area.
               X       Use of fire-resistant plants is encouraged.
Mandatory   Advisory        P. Limit site grading for buildings to preserve existing land



                                                                                         Page 212
                                forms.
                       See Figure 19.72.17
    X                  Building designs that require extensive cut and fills are prohibited. See
                       Section 19.72.070.
               X       Modification of the natural terrain should be minimized.
    X                  Slopes steeper than thirty percent (30%) shall not be disturbed except as
                       allowed by this Chapter.
    X                  Buildings, driveways, and roads shall follow the natural contours of the
                       site as feasible, and comply with county excavation, grading, and erosion
                       control standards.

             FIGURE 19.72.17: BUILDINGS DESIGNED TO LIMIT GRADING




Mandatory   Advisory         Q. Preserve natural drainage patterns in site design. See Figure
Standard    Standard             19.72.18
                       All final excavation, grading, and drainage plans shall conform to
   X
                       applicable county excavation, grading, and erosion control standards.
                       Development shall preserve the natural surface drainage pattern unique
   X                   to each site. Grading plans shall ensure that drainage flows away from
                       structures, especially structures that are cut into hillsides.
                       Development must prevent negative or adverse drainage impacts on
   X
                       adjacent and surrounding sites.
                       Standard erosion control methods shall be required during construction to
                       protect water quality, control drainage, and reduce soil erosion. Sediment
   X
                       traps, small dams, or barriers of straw bales shall be generally required to
                       slow the velocity of runoff.




                                                                                          Page 213
            FIGURE 19.72.18: PRESERVE NATURAL DRAINAGE PATTERNS




Mandatory   Advisory       R. Locate buildings outside stream corridor buffer zones
                       Permanent structures shall be located a minimum of one-hundred (100)
                       feet horizontally (plan view) from the ordinary high-water mark of stream
                       corridors or other bodies of water. At the discretion of the Director and
   X
                       based on site-specific soils, water, or vegetation studies, setback
                       distances may be reduced as provided in Section 19.72.130 (Stream
                       Corridor and Wetlands Protection).
   X                   Where feasible, developments shall not alter natural waterways.
Mandatory   Advisory       S. Construct bridges for stream crossings. See Figure 19.72.19
                       Culverts may only be installed on small side drainages, across swales,
                       and on ephemeral or intermittent streams. (See Section 19.72.130,
   X                   (Stream Corridor and Wetlands Protection)). Culverts are prohibited to
                       cross perennial streams; bridges to cross perennial streams are
                       permitted.
                       Bridges and culverts shall be sized to withstand one-hundred (100) year
                       storm events. Concrete or stone head walls and side walls are required to
   X
                       maintain the integrity of the bridge structure. (See Chapter 19.74
                       (Floodplain Hazards).




                                                                                        Page 214
                            FIGURE 19.72.19: CULVERTS




                          T. Design traffic circulation to respect existing topography,
Mandatory   Advisory           achieve acceptable slopes, and adhere to minimum width
                               and turning standards. See Figure 19.72.20
                       Vehicular access shall be safe and have adequate width to allow for
   X
                       snowplowing and snow storage.
                       Access roads shall avoid steep grades and sharp turning radii that can
   X
                       make access, especially in the winter, difficult.

                       FIGURE 19.72.20: DRIVEWAY DESIGN




                           U. Provide safe, adequate off-street parking with year-round
Mandatory   Advisory
                               access
                       New development shall comply with off-street parking requirements
   X
                       provided in this Ordinance.



                                                                                        Page 215
                       Shared driveways and shared parking areas with adjoining owners are
               X
                       encouraged.
                       Off-street parking areas shall be large enough to avoid vehicles having to
   X
                       back out onto a public street.
                           V. Design new roads and driveways to reduce their visual
Mandatory   Advisory
                                 impact
                       Roads and driveways should be screened using existing land forms and
                       vegetation. Long tangents, including on side roads intersecting with
               X
                       arterial roads or highways, should be avoided in favor of curvilinear
                       alignments reflecting topography.
                       Cuts and fills shall be re-graded to reflect adjacent land forms and re-
   X
                       vegetated with native plants. See Section 19.72.070.
                           W. Respect existing land forms, contours, and natural settings
Mandatory   Advisory             in the placement of fences. See Figures 19.72.21 and
                                 19.72.22
                       Fences may be erected to screen service and outdoor areas or provide
   X                   a safety barrier. (See Section 19.72.070 (Grading Standards—Retaining
                       Walls))
                       Fencing used to screen patios, other outdoor areas, and service areas
                       may be composed of the following fencing materials:
                       a. Natural or stained wood
                       b. Brick
   X                   c. Rock
                       d. Stone
                       e. Pre-cast fences or walls textured and colored to imitate any of the
                       above materials
                       f. Wrought iron
                       The following fencing materials are prohibited:
                       a. Solid board
                       b. Concrete or concrete block
                       c. Chain link, except around telecommunications facilities, public utility
                       compounds, and other related or similar facilities where security concerns
                       and terrain make this type of fencing practical, as approved by the
   X
                       Planning Commission for fences around conditional uses and approved
                       by the Director for fences around permitted uses. Where a chain link
                       fence is used, a powder or dull coating of the fence is required.
                       d. Plywood
                       e. Painted materials
                       f. Vinyl, except rail fences for containment of horses
                       Subject to the height limits of 19.72.100, rail fences and low rock walls are
   X
                       permitted along property lines.
                       Except as allowed under 19.72.100.D, fences located along arterial roads
   X
                       or highways are limited to a maximum height of 42 inches in height.
                       Walls and fences are to be reviewed on a site-by-site basis, and require
   X
                       compliance with the International Building Code.




                                                                                           Page 216
                 FIGURE 19.72.21: OPAQUE FENCE FOR SCREENING




             FIGURE 19.72.22: FENCES RESPECT EXISTING LAND FORMS




                           X. Select and locate lighting fixtures only where needed to
Mandatory   Advisory            provide for the safe movement of people on the site. See
                                Figure 19.72.23
                       Light poles for public outdoor recreational facilities are limited to 24 feet in
                       height. Light poles for outdoor recreational facilities on private residential
   X                   property are limited to 18 feet in height. Both require site plan review
                       which may require restrictions on locations and hours of illumination
                       based upon impacts on adjoining properties.
                       With the exception of light poles for outdoor recreational facilities, lights
   X
                       poles, and building-mounted fixtures shall be designed with fully shielded



                                                                                              Page 217
                          luminaires directed downward.


                          FIGURE 19.72.23: SHIELDED LIGHTING




19.72.190 WAIVERS FOR PUBLIC USES


   A.       Authority to Grant Waivers

            The topographic conditions, soil characteristics, hydrologic patterns, climatic constraints,
            susceptibility to natural hazards, vegetation, wildlife habitat concerns, and aesthetic
            considerations of foothill and canyon areas often create circumstances in which strict
            compliance with adopted standards is not only difficult but sometimes impossible to
            achieve. As these challenges are frequently created by the very nature and operational
            characteristics of many public uses, and are therefore most often self-imposed, other
            avenues of administrative relief are sometimes necessary and appropriate. Accordingly,
            the planning commission may waive or modify the development standards for these uses.

   B.       Waiver Request Procedures

        1. A petition or request for a waiver or modification of an FCOZ development standard may
           be submitted in writing by the owner or authorized agent of the subject property. The
           petition or request shall be made concurrent with the related land use permit application--
           for example, conditional use application. The petition or written request shall clearly
           explain:

            a. Those aspects or elements of the development proposal that are strictly prohibited.

            b. All FCOZ requirements requested to be waived or modified in order for the
               development to reasonably proceed.



                                                                                              Page 218
         c.   The basis, justification or grounds for granting the waiver or modification.

         d. Why other common designs or improvements that may be less impactful on the
            environment and adjacent properties are not being considered.


     2. Each requested waiver or modification is to be referred for decision to the planning
        commission. The waiver or modification petition is to be accompanied by a written staff
        report with recommendations.

     3. When a public hearing is required, the notice shall be given 14 days in advance of the
        hearing and shall specify the waivers or modifications requested, the relevant ordinance
        provisions from which the waivers or modifications are sought, and the general nature of
        the development that is proposed if the requested waivers or modifications are granted.

C.       Approval Standards

         In deciding whether to grant requested waivers or modifications to the development
         standards of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, the planning commission shall
         consider the following standards as deemed applicable by the planning commission:

     1. Whether the requested waiver and improvements would contribute to the overall use,
        operation, and maintenance of the property, and whether reasonable alternative means
        exist to reduce or mitigate adverse impacts.

     2. Whether strict compliance with these regulations may result in substantial economic
        hardship or practical difficulties for the owner of the property.

     3. Whether strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified regulation may
        result in a development approach inconsistent with the intent and objectives of this
        Chapter.

     4. Whether the requested waivers or modifications may result in a development proposal
        that better preserves area views, reduces adverse impacts on existing trees and
        vegetation, reduces the overall degree of disturbance to steep slopes, protects wildlife
        habitat, or reflects a greater degree of sensitivity to stream corridors, wetlands, rock
        outcrops, and other sensitive environmental features in the vicinity of the proposed
        improvements.

     5. Whether the granting of the requested waiver or modification may have neutral or
        beneficial impact to the public health, safety, or welfare, or to properties or improvements
        in the vicinity.


     6. Whether the proposed development, as modified by the requested waiver, is consistent
         with the goals, objectives, and policies of the adopted community general plan applicable




                                                                                             Page 219
     7. Whether creative architectural or environmental solutions may be applied to alternatively
        achieve the purposes of this Chapter.

     8. Whether the development in all other respects conforms to the site design, development,
        and environmental standards set forth in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone and in
        all other applicable ordinances and codes.

     9. Whether the requested waivers or modifications do not violate other applicable federal,
        state, and local laws.


D.      Waivers

         Slope waivers are not required for facilities or uses with slopes of thirty percent (30%) or
         less. Slope waivers are required for eligible development activities associated with such
         land uses according to Table 19.16.2.




          TABLE 19.16.2: PERMISSIBLE SLOPE RANGES FOR ELIGIBLE DEVELOPMENT
                                       ACTIVITIES

                                      Authority to Grant Waivers

           Slope Range                            Eligible Development Activities

      30% or less                 •    No slope waiver required

      Greater than 30% up         •    All development activities associated with allowed uses
      to 40%

                                  •    Pedestrian trails
      Greater than 40% up         •    Non-motorized vehicle trails
      to 50%                      •    Motorized vehicle roads and trails for emergency or
                                       maintenance purposes

                                  •    Pedestrian trails
      Greater than 50%
                                  •    Non-motorized vehicle trails




E.      Action on Waiver Requests

     1. The requested waiver or modification may be approved as proposed, denied, or
        approved with conditions.


     2. The decision on the requested waiver or modification shall include the reasons for
        approval or denial.



                                                                                           Page 220
            3. In granting a waiver from or modification of development standards, conditions may be
               imposed to mitigate the impacts of the proposed development on adjacent properties and
               the area. These may include, for example, measures to:

                a. protect scenic vistas, especially views from public rights-of-way and public lands,
                b. protect natural settings in the vicinity of site improvements, and
                c. enhance the relationship to and compatibility with other structures and open spaces
                   in the vicinity of the proposed improvements.

            4. All development shall comply with approved plans. Any proposed revisions or changes to
               plans requires a resubmittal and request for final action.

19.72.200       DEFINITIONS

        For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

Alteration
Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing structure, such as bearing walls,
columns, beams, girders, or interior partitions, or any change in the dimensions or configurations of the
roof or exterior walls.


Building site
A space of ground occupied or to be occupied by a building or group of buildings.


Caliper
A standard for trunk measurement of nursery stock, determined by measuring the diameter of the trunk
six inches above the ground for up to and including five-inch (5”) caliper size, and twelve inches (12”)
above the ground for larger trees.


Clustering
A development or subdivision design technique that concentrates buildings or lots on a part of the site to
allow the remaining land to be used for recreation, common open space, and/or preservation of
environmentally sensitive areas.

Development site
A space of ground within an approved limits of disturbance which has been developed or is proposed for
development as defined in section 19.02.165.

Driveway
A private area used for ingress and egress of vehicles, which allows access from a street or road to a
building, structure, or parking spaces.


Engineering geologist
A geologist who, through education, training and experience, is able to conduct field investigations and
interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic factors affecting engineered works are recognized,
adequately interpreted, and presented for use in engineering practice and for the protection of the public.



                                                                                                   Page 221
Expansion
An increase in the size of an existing structure or use, including the physical size of the property, building,
parking, and other improvements.


Fence
A structure erected to provide privacy or security, which defines a private space or is used to constrain
domestic animals.

Geotechnical engineer
A professional engineer licensed in the State of Utah, whose education, training, and experience is in the
field of geotechnical engineering.


Grading
Any change of existing surface conditions by excavating, placing of any soils or rocks, or stripping of
vegetation.

Landscape architect
A person who is licensed to practice landscape architecture by the state of Utah.

Limits of disturbance
The area(s) in which construction and development activity are to be contained, including development
and construction of the principal building, accessory structures, recreation areas, utilities, services,
driveways, septic tank drain fields and related system requirements, storm drainage, and other similar
services or improvements. The following need not be included in limits of disturbance:
    A. Up to ten (10) feet of paved or unpaved shoulders for driveways.
    B. Areas consisting of natural ponds, streams, trees, and other vegetation where no
       grading work is done.

Lot of Record
A lot or parcel of land established in compliance with all applicable state statutes, county ordinances,
and/or other legal requirements at the time of its creation and recorded in the office of the Salt Lake
County recorder either as part of a recorded subdivision or as described on a deed, having frontage upon
a street, a right-of-way approved by the Land use hearing officer, or a right-of-way not less than twenty
feet wide.

Natural open space
Land in a predominantly open and undeveloped condition that is suitable for any of the following: natural
areas; wildlife and native plant habitat; important wetlands or watershed lands; stream corridors; passive,
low-impact activities; little or no land disturbance; or trails for non-motorized activities.

Net developable acreage
“Net developable acreage” is defined as land with all of the following:

    A. An average slope less than thirty percent (30%).




                                                                                                     Page 222
    B. Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and percolation tests in accordance
       with the regulations of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality in order to ensure against
       adverse impacts on surface and groundwater quality.

    C. Minimum distance from any stream corridor as defined in this Chapter.

    D. Free from any identified natural hazards such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high water table and
       similar features. (See Chapter 19.74 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations) and Section 19.72.120
       (Natural Hazards).

Open Space
Any area of a lot that is completely free and unobstructed from any man-made structure or parking areas.

Ordinary high water mark
   A. The line on the bank to which the high water of a stream ordinarily rises annually in seasons, as
       indicated by changes in the characteristics of soil, vegetation, or other appropriate means, taking
       into consideration the characteristics of the surrounding areas.

    B. Where the ordinary high water mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall be
       substituted.

    C. In braided channels, the ordinary high water mark shall be measured to include the entire stream
       feature.

Overlay zone
A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zones and that imposes additional or
alternative requirements to that required by the underlying zone.

Public Trails
A type of natural open space that is a system of public recreational pathways located within the
unincorporated county for use by the public for walking, biking, and/or horseback riding as designated

Qualified professional
A professionally trained person with the requisite academic degree, experience, and professional
certification or license in the field(s) relating to the subject matter being studied or analyzed.

Retaining wall
A wall designed and constructed to resist the lateral displacement and erosion of soils or other materials.

Ridgeline protection area
An area consisting of a prominent ridgeline that is highly visible from public rights-of-way or trails, and that
includes the crest of any such designated prominent hill or slope, plus the land located within one-
hundred feet (100’) horizontally (map distance) on either side of the crest.

Significant trees
Live trees of six-inch (6”) caliper or greater, groves of five or more smaller live trees, or clumps of live oak
or maple covering an area of fifty (50) square feet to the drip line perimeter.

Site plan



                                                                                                       Page 223
An accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing conditions on a land parcel and the details of a
proposed development, including but not limited to: topography; vegetation; drainage; flood plains;
wetlands; waterways; landscaping and open space; walkways; means of ingress and egress; circulation;
utility easements and services; structures and buildings; lighting; berms, buffers and screening devices;
development on adjacent property; and any other information that may be required to make an informed
decision on a development application.

Slope
The level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by dividing, in fifty (50) foot intervals, the average
horizontal run of the slope into the average vertical rise of the same slope and converting the resulting
figure into a percentage value.

Stream, Ephemeral
Those channels, swales, gullies, or low areas that do not have flow year-round or are not shown on
United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as perennial streams. These are
generally channels that are tributary to perennial streams, other ephemeral streams, terminal low areas,
ponds, or lakes. They are typically dry except during periods of snowmelt runoff or intense rainfall.
(Contrast with “Stream, Perennial.”)

Stream, Perennial
Those streams, excluding ephemeral streams, or ditches and canals constructed for irrigation and
drainage purposes, which flow year-round during years of normal rainfall, and that are identified on the
appropriate United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as perennial streams.
(Contrast with “Stream, Ephemeral.”)

Stream corridor
The corridor defined by a perennial stream’s ordinary high water mark.

Substantial economic hardship
A denial of all reasonable economic use of a property.

Trails
A recreational pathway for walking, biking, and/or horseback riding as designated.

Undevelopable
Undevelopable means strict application of this title prevents the minimum development necessary to
establish a permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone on the property.

Vegetation
Living plant material, including but not limited to trees, shrubs, flowers, grass, herbs, and ground cover.

Waiver
Permission to depart from the requirements of an Ordinance with respect to the application of a specific
regulation.




                                                                                                       Page 224
Chapter 19.74 - FLOODPLAIN HAZARD REGULATIONS



19.74.010 - Findings.

A.    Flood hazard areas of Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township are subject to periodic
     inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of
     commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and
     relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
     general welfare.
B.    The inundation is caused by the cumulative effect of channel obstructions which increase flood
     heights and velocities. Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from
     floodwater also contribute to flood loss.




19.74.020 - Purpose of provisions.

    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by provisions designed to:
     A.   Protect human life and health;
     B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for flood-control projects;
     C.    Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally
          undertaken at the expense of the general public;
     D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
     E.    Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
          telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located in areas of special flood hazard;
     F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of areas of
          special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood-blight areas;
     G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area of special flood hazard; and
     H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume responsibility for their
          actions.




19.74.030 - Methods of reducing flood losses.

     In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
     A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water
          or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases of erosion, flood heights or velocities;
     B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected
          against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
     C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and natural protective barriers,
          which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
     D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage;
          and



                                                                                                   Page 225
     E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will divert floodwaters or which
          may increase flood hazards in other areas.




19.74.040 - Areas of special flood hazard.

A.   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of unincorporated
     Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township. The areas of special flood hazard identified by
     the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled "Flood
     Insurance Study, Salt Lake County, Utah, Unincorporated Areas," December 18, 1985, with
     accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps, and any revisions
     thereto, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance
     Study is on file at the Salt Lake County Development Services Division, 2001 South State Street,
     Salt Lake City, Utah 84190-4090.
B.    The director of development services shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
     elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, as criteria for requiring
     that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in zone A meet the
     provisions of Sections 19.74.050, 19.74.150, 19.74.160, 19.74.170 and 19.74.180. Such other
     source base flood elevation data shall be more specifically provided by the developer as determined
     by a registered professional engineer for subdivision and other proposed developments which
     contain at least fifty lots or five acres (whichever is less).




19.74.050 - Floodways.

     Located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section 19.74.040 are areas designated
as "floodways." Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
     A.    Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, placement of
          manufactured homes, and other developments, are prohibited unless certification by a
          registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that encroachments shall not result
          in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
     B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements
          and placement of manufactured homes shall comply with all applicable flood-hazard reduction
          provisions of Sections 19.74.100 through 19.74.180.




19.74.060 - Relationship of floodplain hazard regulations to zones.

     The floodplain hazard regulations of this chapter shall be supplemental to, and not in lieu of, the
applicable zoning provisions of the zone in which the land is located, and/or general provisions under Title
19 of this code, as amended. Property located within such areas of special flood hazard shall be
developed only in conformance with the provisions set forth herein. In cases of conflict between such
zone classifications and the floodplain hazard regulations, the most restrictive provisions shall govern.
Permitted and conditional uses permitted in the areas of special flood hazard shall be developed only in
conformance with the provisions set forth herein. All uses involving development, as defined in this
chapter, shall further meet the supplemental conditions and standards set forth in this chapter.




                                                                                                   Page 226
19.74.070 - Conditional use permits required when.

     A conditional use permit, if required by this title, shall be obtained prior to special flood hazard area
approval under Section 19.74.080. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit, the planning commission
shall insure that requirements of this chapter are met.




19.74.080 - Construction or development—Special approval required.

A.   Approval by the development services division shall be obtained before construction or development
     begins within an area of special flood hazard established in Section 19.74.040. Application for such
     approval shall be made on forms furnished by the development services division, and may include,
     but not be limited to: Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
     elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
     facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
B.   Specifically, the following information is required:
     1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor, including basement, of all structures
          except those located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not available nor required
          by this chapter;
     2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been floodproofed except
          those located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not available nor required by this
          chapter;
     3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing methods for
          any nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing criteria in Sections 19.74.150 through
          19.74.180; and
     4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
          proposed development.




19.74.090 - Construction or development—Duties of director of development services division.

     The director of development services division shall be responsible to:
     A.   Review Applications.
          1.    Review all applications to determine if the proposed development is located in the
               floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that the encroachment provisions of Section
               19.74.050 are met,
          2.   Review all applications to determine that the requirements of this chapter have been
               satisfied,
          3.   Review all applications to determine that all necessary permits have been obtained from
               federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
     B.   Maintain Information File.
          1.   Obtain and record the actual elevation provided by the developer (in relation to mean sea
               level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially improved
               structures except those located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not
               available nor required by this chapter,




                                                                                                    Page 227
          2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures except those located in zone
               A where base flood elevation data was not available nor required by this chapter:
               a.   Verify and record the actual elevation provided by the developer (in relation to mean
                    sea level), and
               b.    Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection B3 of Section
                    19.74.080,
          3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter;
     C.   Verify Alteration of Watercourses. Verify that:
          1.   A permit has been obtained from the division of flood control and water quality for any
               alteration of a watercourse identified as a flood-control facility in Section 17.08.040 of this
               code,
          2.   A permit has been obtained from the State Engineer for alteration of a natural stream
               channel,
          3.   Maintenance is provided for within the altered or relocated portion of such watercourse so
               the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished,
          4.   Notification has been made to cities adjacent to the watercourse and to the State Division
               of Comprehensive Emergency Management, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
               watercourse, and evidence of such notification has been submitted to the Federal
               Emergency Management Agency.




19.74.100 - Protective standards generally.

    In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards, set out in Sections 19.74.110 through
19.74.140, are required.




19.74.110 - Anchoring.

A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
     lateral movement of the structure.
B.     All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood
     damage. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
     to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
     limited to, over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
     applicable anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.




19.74.120 - Construction materials and methods.

A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility
     equipment resistant to flood damage. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning
     equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
     entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
B.    All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed using methods and
     practices that minimize flood damage. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to


                                                                                                     Page 228
     flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
     allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
     certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following
     minimum criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square
     inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all
     openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens,
     louvers, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
     floodwaters.




19.74.130 - Utilities.

A.   All new and replacement water-supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
     of floodwaters into the system;
B.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
     of floodwaters into the systems, and discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
C.    On-site waste-disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from
     them during the flooding.




19.74.140 - Subdivision proposals.

A.   All subdivision proposals shall minimize flood damage;
B.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
     water systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
C.    All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
     damage.




19.74.150 - Specific protective standards.

     In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been provided as set forth
in Section 19.74.040, the following provisions set out in Sections 19.74.160 through 19.74.180 are
required.




19.74.160 - Residential construction.

      New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.




19.74.170 - Nonresidential construction.




                                                                                                   Page 229
     New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential
structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a minimum of one foot above
the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
     A.   Be floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood level the structure is watertight,
          with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
     B.    Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
          affects of buoyancy; and
     C.    Provide that where a nonresidential structure is intended to be made watertight below the base
          flood level:
          1.    A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
               design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and
               methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting
               the applicable provisions of this section, and
          2.   A record of such certificates which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
               level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be provided to the director of
               development services as set forth in Section 19.74.090(B)(2).




19.74.180 - Manufactured homes.

     All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is a minimum of one foot above the base
flood elevation and is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance
with Section 19.74.110.




19.74.190 - Variances and appeal procedures.

     The land use hearing officer, as designated by the zoning ordinance of the countymetro township,
shall hear and decide all appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter, as
provided in Chapter 19.92 of this title, as amended. The following conditions shall apply, in addition to the
provisions of Chapter 19.92:
     A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be
          erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
          existing structures constructed below one foot above the base level, providing the land use
          hearing officer has considered all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, and standards
          specified in other sections of this chapter, providing the following items have been considered:
          1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other land to the injury of others;
          2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
          3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage, and the effect
               of such damage on the individual owner;
          4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;
          5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
          6.    The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use, which are not subject to
               flooding or erosion damage;
          7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and anticipated development;


                                                                                                   Page 230
          8.    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain
                management program for that area;
          9.    The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
          10.     The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of the
                floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
          11.    The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including
                maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
                water systems, and streets and bridges.
     B.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed
          on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without
          regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section.
     C.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
          during the base flood discharge would result.
     D.    Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum
          necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
     E.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
          1.    A showing of good and sufficient cause;
          2.    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional and undue
                hardship to the applicant; and
          3.    A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
                additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
                fraud on or victimization of the public, as identified in subsection Al of this section, or
                conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
     F.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will
          be permitted to be built with a lowest floor elevation below one foot above the base flood
          elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased flood risk
          resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
     G.    The land use hearing officer shall maintain the record of all appeal actions and report any
          variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.




19.74.200 - Warning and liability disclaimer.

     The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on
rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free
from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the county, metro
township, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.




19.74.210 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter:



                                                                                                  Page 231
     "Lowest floor" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in
an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design
requirements of this title.
     "Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
the required utilities. For floodplain management purposes, the term "manufactured home" also includes
park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty
consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term "manufactured home" does not include park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
     "Manufactured home park or subdivision" means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into
two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.



Chapter 19.75 - GEOLOGICAL HAZARDS ORDINANCE* (Formerly "Natural Hazard Areas")



19.75.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the geologic hazards ordinance is to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens of the Countymetro township, and minimize the potential adverse effects of geologic
hazards to public health, safety and property by encouraging wise land use in geologically hazardous
areas.




19.75.020 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
    "Active fault" means a fault displaying evidence of greater than four inches of displacement along
one or more of its traces during Holocene time (about 10,000 years ago to the present).
     "Avalanche" means a large mass of snow, ice, and debris in swift motion down a slope; includes
both wet and dry snow avalanches.
     "Buildable area" means that portion of a site where an approved engineering geology and/or
geotechnical report, as required, has indicated is not impacted by geologic hazards, or concluded that the
identified hazards can be mitigated to a level where risk to human life and property are reduced to an
acceptable and reasonable level, and where structures may be safely sited. Buildable areas must be
clearly marked on the site plan and/or final approved plat, as appropriate.
   "Critical facilities" means essential facilities, and lifelines such as major utility, transportation, and
communication facilities and their connections to essential facilities.
     "Debris flow" means a slurry of rock, soil, organic material, and water transported in an extremely
fast and destructive flow that flows down channels and onto and across alluvial fans; includes a
continuum of sedimentation events and processes including debris, flows, debris floods, mudflows,
clearwater floods, and alluvial fan flooding.
     "Development" includes all critical and essential facilities, subdivisions, single- and multi-family
dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings, additions to existing buildings, storage facilities, pipelines
and utility conveyances, and other land uses.




                                                                                                     Page 232
     "Engineering geologist" means a geologist who, through education, training and experience, is able
to conduct field investigations and interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic factors affecting
engineered works are recognized, adequately interpreted, and presented for use in engineering practice
and for the protection of the public.
     "Engineering geology" means the application of geological data, principles and interpretation so that
geological factors affecting planning, design, construction, and maintenance of engineered works are
properly recognized and adequately interpreted.
     "Essential facility" means buildings and other structures that are intended to remain operational in
the event of extreme environmental loading from snow or earthquakes, including all Category II and III
structures as classified in Table 1604.5 of the Building Code.
    "Fault" means a fracture in the earth's crust forming a boundary between rock or soil masses that
have moved relative to each other (see "Active fault").
   "Fault setback" means an area on either side of a fault within which construction of structures for
human occupancy or critical facilities is not permitted.
    "Fault scarp" means a steep slope or cliff formed by movement along a fault.
    "Fault trace" means the intersection of a fault plane with the ground surface, often present as a fault
scarp, or detected as a lineament on aerial photographs.
     "Fault zone" means a corridor of variable width along one or more fault traces, within which
deformation has occurred.
     "Geologic hazard" means a surface fault rupture, liquefaction, landslide, debris flow, rockfall,
avalanche, and/or other geologic processes that may present a risk to life and property.
    "Geologic hazard maps" refers to the following maps showing Geologic Hazards Special Study
Areas in unincorporated Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township:
    A.   "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989
         and revised March 1995;
    B.    "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989;
    C.    "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Area Map" dated April 9, 2002.
     "Geologic Hazard Special Study Area" means a potentially hazardous area as shown on the
geological hazards maps, or in other areas defined under "Applicability" (Section 19.75.030), within which
hazard investigations are generally required prior to development.
    "Geotechnical Engineer" means a professional engineer licensed in the State of Utah whose
education, training and experience, is in the field of geotechnical engineering.
     "Geotechnical Engineering" means the investigation and engineering evaluation of earth materials
including soil, rock and man-made materials and their interaction with earth retention systems,
foundations, and other civil engineering works. The practice involves the fields of soil mechanics, rock
mechanics, and earth sciences and requires knowledge of engineering laws, formulas, construction
techniques, and performance evaluation of engineering.
    "Governing body" means the Countymetro township Ccouncil, or to a future successor body to the
Countymetro township Ccouncil.
     "Landslide" means a general term for the downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial deposits
or bedrock, including a continuum of processes between landslides, earthflows, mudflows, debris flows
and debris avalanches, and rockfall.
     "Liquefaction" means a process by which certain water-saturated soils lose bearing strength because
of earthquake-related ground shaking and subsequent increase of groundwater pore pressure.




                                                                                                 Page 233
    "Non-Buildable Area" means that portion of a site which an engineering geology report has
concluded may be impacted by geologic hazards that cannot be feasibly mitigated to a safe level, and
where siting of structures is not permitted.
     "Rockfall" means a rock, or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep slope which
moves downslope by falling, rolling, toppling, or bouncing; includes rockslides, rockfall avalanches, and
talus.
    "Setback" means an area within which construction of habitable structures or critical facilities is not
permitted.
      "Slope Stability" means the resistance of a natural or artificial slope or other inclined surface to
failure by landsliding; usually assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake induced) conditions.
     "Structure designed for human occupancy" means any residential dwelling or other structure used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any human occupancy.




19.75.030 - Applicability.

     These regulations are applicable to:
     A.   All lands within Geological Hazard Special Study Areas in unincorporated Salt LakeEmigration
          Canyon CountyMetro Township, as shown on the following geologic hazards maps on file with
          the County Planning and Development Services Division:
          1.   "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March 31,
               1989 and revised March 1995;
          2.   "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989; and
          3.   "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Areas" dated April 9, 2002.
     B.   Because not all geologic hazards are identified on the above maps due to their scale, this
          ordinance also applies to areas within the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, as indicated by
          a map of that title adopted on January 21, 1998, Chapter 19.72 of the Salt Lake County Zoning
          Ordinance, as amended; and
     C.   Areas where slopes are in excess of thirty percent; and
     D.   Areas where topography, geology, soil conditions, slope instability, slope angle or aspect,
          whether on-site or off-site, indicate a potential for geologic hazards.
      Such maps and areas described above and all amendments thereto are made a part of this chapter
as if fully described and detailed herein. Each change in the geologic hazards maps shall be subject to
the amendment procedures set forth in Chapter 19.90.




19.75.040 - Disputes.

     Disputes may arise when:
     a.   there is a conflict between the boundary lines illustrated on the map and actual field conditions,
     b.   detailed investigations show that mapped hazards are not present within a particular area, or
     c.   field conditions indicate that unmapped hazards may exist that require study.
     Disputes shall be settled as follows:




                                                                                                   Page 234
    A.   The person disputing the special study area boundary or the presence of mapped or unmapped
         hazard(s) within a particular area shall submit technical and geologic evidence to support their
         claim to the County Geologist in the form of a site-specific geologic hazards report (see Section
         19.75.060).
    B.    The County Geologist may request the Utah Geological Survey, U.S. Forest Service, and/or
         other experts to review the evidence (third-party review) prior to making a decision concerning
         the dispute. The cost of the third-party review shall be paid by the person disputing the map.
    C.    The County Geologist may allow deviations from the mapped boundary line only if evidence is
         provided by the applicant that, to the satisfaction of the County Geologist, clearly and
         conclusively establishes that the Geologic Hazard Special Study Area boundary location is
         incorrect, or that the mapped hazards are not present within a particular area.
    D.   Any decision of the County Geologist may be appealed to the land use hearing officer pursuant
         to the appeal procedures set forth in Section 19.92.050.




19.75.050 - Studies and reports required.

     Any applicant requesting development on a parcel of land within a Geologic Hazard Special Study
Area, as required under Chart 19.75.050, or in other applicable areas as defined in Section 19.75.030,
shall submit to the Planning and Development Services Division two copies of a site-specific geologic
hazard study and report.




                                              Chart 19.75.050
                                  Special Study Area Report Requirements
                                   Based on Special Study Area Maps
               Is a Site-Specific Geologic Hazards Report Required Prior to Approval?

                                                    Liquefaction Potential

                                       Surface                    LOW and      Landslide,
                                                   HIGH and
   Land Use (Type of Facility)          Fault                      VERY       Debris Flow &    Avalanche
                                                  MODERATE
                                       Rupture                      LOW         Rockfall

Critical and Essential Facilities as
                                         Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes            Yes
  defined in Section 19.75.020

Industrial and Commercial Bldgs.
                                         Yes           No*            No           Yes            Yes
   (1 story and <5,000 sq. ft.)

Industrial and Commercial Bldgs.
                                         Yes           Yes            No           Yes            Yes
          (>5,000 sq. ft.)

  Residential-Single Lots/Single
                                         Yes           No*            No           Yes            Yes
         Family Homes




                                                                                                Page 235
Residential Subdivisions (>9 Lots),
   and Residential Multi-Family
                                         Yes             Yes             No             Yes            Yes
  Dwellings (4 or more units per
              acre)

Residential Subdivisions (<9 Lots),
  and Residential Multi-Family           Yes             No*             No             Yes            Yes
  Dwellings (<4 units per acre)

  * Although a site-specific investigation is not required, the owner is required to file a disclosure notice
                                         prior to land-use approval




19.75.060 - Geologic hazard and engineering geology reports.

     This section describes requirements for site-specific geologic hazard studies and reports, where
required according to Section 19.75.050, the Geologic Hazard maps and Chart 19.75.050:
    A.   An engineering geology report that includes a geologic hazards investigation and assessment
         shall be prepared by a qualified engineering geologist, except as provided in Sections
         19.75.060 (C) and (F), below. A "qualified engineering geologist" requires 1) an undergraduate
         or graduate degree in geology, engineering geology, or a related field with a strong emphasis in
         geologic coursework, from an accredited university; 2) at least three full years of experience in a
         responsible position in the field of engineering geology; and 3) per State law, after January 1,
         2003, geologists practicing before the public must be licensed in Utah. The report shall be site-
         specific and shall identify all known or suspected potential geologic hazards, originating on-site
         or off-site, whether previously mapped or unmapped, that may affect the particular property. All
         reports shall be signed and stamped by the preparer and include the qualifications of the
         preparer.
    B.    Fault rupture hazard reports shall contain all requirements as described in the document
         "Minimum Standards for Surface Fault Rupture Studies" published by Salt Lake County, and
         incorporated by reference as Appendix A of this ordinance. Fault study reports shall be
         prepared, signed, and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist as described in Appendix A.
    C.   Liquefaction analyses shall contain all requirements as stated in the document "Liquefaction: A
         Guide to Land Use Planning" published by Salt Lake County, and incorporated by reference as
         Appendix B to this ordinance. Liquefaction analyses shall be prepared by a qualified
         professional geotechnical engineer licensed in the State of Utah, and shall include the
         professional engineer's original stamp and signature.
    D.    Debris flow hazard studies and reports shall include test pits or trench logs (scaled 1 inch to 5
         feet), include estimates of the number and frequency of past events and their thicknesses,
         volume and maximum clast sizes; and include estimates of the recurrence, depth, and impact
         forces anticipated in future events. While debris flow hazard analyses may require contributions
         from hydrologists and engineers, the debris flow report shall be under the control of, and
         prepared by, a qualified engineering geologist, and shall include the geologist's qualifications to
         perform the study (such as their experience in performing similar studies).
    E.    Landslide reports shall be prepared in accordance with the Utah Geological Survey's
         "Guidelines for Evaluating Landslide Hazards in Utah" (Hylland, 1996). Landslide reports shall
         be prepared, signed, and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist, and include the
         qualifications of the preparer. Slope stability or other analyses included in these reports shall


                                                                                                     Page 236
         include both static and dynamic conditions, and shall be prepared by a qualified professional
         geotechnical engineer licensed in the State of Utah, and shall include the professional
         engineer's original stamp and signature.
    F.   Snow avalanche hazard reports shall be prepared in accordance with the document "Snow-
         Avalanche Hazard Analysis for Land Use Planning and Engineering" (Colorado Geological
         Survey Bulletin 49) or other appropriate references. Avalanche hazard reports must be
         prepared by an experienced avalanche expert, and shall include the avalanche expert's
         qualifications to perform the study (such as their experience in performing similar studies).
    G.    Other geologic hazard or engineering geology reports shall be prepared in accordance with
         Utah Geological Survey Miscellaneous Publication M, "Guidelines for Preparing Engineering
         Geologic Reports in Utah." All reports shall be signed by the preparer and include the
         qualifications of the preparer. Generally, these reports must be prepared, signed, and stamped
         by a qualified engineering geologist licensed in the State of Utah. However, reports co-prepared
         by a professional engineer must include the professional engineer's original stamp and
         signature.
    H.   All reports shall include, at a minimum:
         1.    A 1:24,000-scale geologic map (with reference) showing the surface geology, bedrock
              geology (where exposed), bedding attitudes, faults or other structural features, and the
              locations of any geologic hazards;
         2.   A detailed site map of the subject area showing any site-specific mapping performed as
              part of the geologic investigation, and including boundaries and features related to any
              geologic hazards, topography, and drainage. The site map must show the location and
              boundaries of the hazard(s), delineation of any recommended setback distances from
              hazard(s), and recommended location(s) for structures. Buildable and non-buildable areas
              shall be clearly identified. Scale shall be one inch equals two hundred feet or smaller.
         3.   Trench logs and test pit logs (scale: 1 inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), boring logs (scale: 1
              inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), aerial photographs, references with citations, and other
              supporting information, as applicable
         4.   Conclusions that summarize the characteristics of the geologic hazards, and that address
              the potential effects of the geologic conditions and geologic hazards on the proposed
              development and occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential damage.
         5.   Specific recommendations for additional or more detailed studies, as may be required to
              understand or quantify the hazard, evaluate whether mitigation measures are required, and
              evaluate mitigation options.
         6.    Specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of the hazard(s),
              consistent with the purposes set forth in Section 19.75.010. Design or performance criteria
              for engineered mitigation measures and all supporting calculations, analyses, modeling or
              other methods, and assumptions, shall be included in the report. Final design plans and
              specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and stamped by a qualified
              professional geotechnical or structural engineer, as appropriate.
         7.   Evidence on which recommendations and conclusions are based shall be clearly stated in
              the report.
    I.   Additional or more detailed studies may be required, as recommended by the report or as
         determined by the County Geologist, to understand or quantify the hazard, or to evaluate
         whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate.




19.75.070 - Review of reports—Approval procedure.



                                                                                                  Page 237
A.   In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter, the Planning and Development Services Division or the
     Planning Commission, as appropriate under the Countymetro township's development standards,
     shall review any proposed land use which requires preparation of a geologic hazard report under this
     chapter to determine the possible risks to the safety of persons or property from geologic hazards.
B.   Prior to consideration of any such development by the Planning and Development Services Division
     and the Planning Commission, the geologic hazard report shall be submitted to the County Geologist
     for review and recommendation. The County Geologist may request the Utah Geological Survey, the
     U.S. Forest Service, and/or other experts to review the report (third-party review) and provide
     additional recommendations. Any cost the countymetro township must pay for such third-party
     reviews shall be paid by the applicant prior to Planning Commission or Planning and Development
     Services Division action. The County Geologist shall file a copy of the geologic hazard report in the
     County Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library, and another copy in the Planning and Development
     Services project file. A copy may also be forwarded to the Utah Geological Survey.
C.    The County Geologist and other retained experts in their review of the report, and the Planning
     Commission or Planning and Development Services Director in their consideration of the
     development, shall determine whether the development complies with all of the following standards:
     1.   A suitable geologic hazard report has been prepared by a qualified professional as defined in
          Section 19.75.060.
     2.    The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the safety of persons or
          property (including buildings, storm drains, public streets, utilities or critical facilities, whether
          off-site or on-site), or to the aesthetics and natural functions of the landscape (e.g. slopes,
          streams or other waterways, drainage, wildlife habitat, etc., whether off-site or on-site) because
          of the presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the proposed
          land use;
     3.   At the Planning Commission's discretion, with advice from the County Geologist, the proposed
          land use may be approved if the applicant submits substantial evidence in the geologic hazard
          report that, using best available practices, the identified hazards can be mitigated to a level
          where the risk of human life and damage to property are reduced to an acceptable and
          reasonable level in a manner which has a minimum effect on the natural environment. Mitigation
          measures should consider, in their design, the intended aesthetic functions of other governing
          ordinances such as the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (Ch. 19.72).
D.    Any area determined to contain geologic hazards to life or property shall not be approved for
     development unless the applicant demonstrates that the identified hazards or limitations can be
     overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property. The applicant must include,
     with the geologic hazards report, an acceptable mitigation plan that defines how the identified
     hazards or limitations will be overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property, as
     described in Section 19.75.070C(1), above, and without impacting or affecting off-site areas.
E.   The County Geologist may set other requirements as are necessary to overcome any geologic
     hazards and to ensure that the purposes of this chapter are met. These requirements may include,
     but are not limited to:
     1.   Additional or more detailed studies to understand or quantify the hazard or determine whether
          mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate;
     2.     Specific mitigation requirements; establishment of buildable and/or non-buildable areas;
          limitations on slope grading; and/or revegetation;
     3.    Installation of monitoring equipment and seasonal monitoring of surface and subsurface
          geologic conditions, including groundwater levels;
     4.   Other requirements such as time schedules for completion of the mitigation, phasing of
          development, etc.




                                                                                                      Page 238
F.   The Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director may set requirements
     necessary to reduce the risks from geologic hazards as a condition to the approval of any
     development which requires a geologic hazards report.




19.75.081 - Active fault considerations.

A.    No critical facility (excluding transportation lines or utilities, which by their nature may cross active
     faults) or structures designed for human occupancy shall be built astride an active fault. A fault study
     must be prepared as defined in Sections 19.75.030 and 19.75.060, and Appendix A, prior to final
     approval of the land use or building permits. If a fault is discovered in the excavation for such a
     structure, whether located within a Special Study Area or not, a special study, as described in
     Section 19.75.060 must be performed to determine if the fault is active. If the fault is determined to
     be active, the procedures set forth in Section 19.75.070 shall be followed. The fault study report shall
     establish a fault setback on either side of the fault following the requirements in Appendix A, within
     which no critical facilities or structures for human occupancy shall be placed.
B.   No structure designed for human occupancy shall be built on a fault scarp. Footing setbacks from a
     fault scarp shall meet the requirements in Appendix A or the requirements of the Building Code,
     whichever is more stringent. The Planning and Development Services Director may increase footing
     setback requirements where information from a geotechnical report indicates slope conditions
     warrant a greater setback distance.




19.75.082 - Liquefaction considerations.

A.   Liquefaction analyses shall be performed for all critical facilities regardless of the mapped special
     study area designation for the site.
B.    For all structures for which a liquefaction analysis indicates that ground settlement may be
     anticipated, the project structural engineer shall provide documentation to the County Geologist that
     the building will be designed to accommodate the predicted ground settlements, in such a manner as
     to be protective of life safety during the design event.




19.75.083 - Avalanche considerations.

A.   Development of structures for human occupancy is not permitted within an avalanche special study
     area, or in other areas where avalanche hazards may exist, unless a detailed avalanche hazard
     analysis is performed, as described in Section 19.75.060, by a qualified avalanche expert.
B.   If the avalanche analysis indicates that the site may be impacted by avalanches, the report shall
     delineate the following areas:
     1.    A "red zone" of high avalanche potential [return period of twenty-five years or less, and/or
          impact pressures over six hundred pounds per square foot (psf)] within which critical facilities or
          structures for human occupancy are not permitted;
     2.    A "blue zone" (return period between twenty-five and three hundred years, and impact
          pressures less than six hundred psf) within which critical facilities or structures for human
          occupancy shall only be permitted when at least one of the following requirements has been
          met:




                                                                                                     Page 239
          a.    The structure is designed to incorporate direct protection measures that address the
               estimated impact forces (flowing snow/debris and powder blast loading). The estimated
               impact forces shall be calculated by the avalanche expert. The structure shall be designed
               by, and the plans stamped by, a qualified structural engineer licensed in the State of Utah;
               or
          b.   Appropriate engineering controls (i.e. deflection structures, snow retention nets, dams, etc.)
               are designed and installed to mitigate the avalanche hazard. Design or performance
               criteria for engineered mitigation measures (including estimated impact forces, flow
               heights, location and dimensions of the mitigation structures) and all supporting modeling
               or other analyses, calculations, and assumptions, shall be calculated by the avalanche
               expert and included in the report. Final design plans and specifications for engineered
               mitigation must be signed and stamped by a qualified professional geotechnical or
               structural engineer, as appropriate, licensed in the State of Utah.




19.75.091 - Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is required.

       Whenever a geologic hazards report is required under this chapter, the owner of the parcel shall
record a restrictive covenant running with the land in a form satisfactory to the Countymetro township
prior to the approval of any development or subdivision of such parcel. Disclosure will include signing a
Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided by the Countydirector of development services, which
will include the following:
     A.   Notice that the parcel is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area as shown on the
          geologic hazard map or otherwise defined in Section 19.75.030;
     B.   Notice that a geologic hazards report was prepared and is available for public inspection in the
          County Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library;
     C.    Where geologic hazards and related setbacks are delineated in subdivisions and PUDs, the
          owner shall also place additional notification on the plat stating the above information, prior to
          final approval of the plat.




19.75.092 - Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is not required.

     Whenever a parcel to be developed is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area but a
geologic hazards report is not required under this chapter (such as but not limited to, a single-family home
located in a moderate liquefaction potential area), notice that the parcel is located within such area(s)
shall be recorded by the land owner by signing a Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided by the
County, director of development services prior to the approval of any such development.




19.75.100 - Warning and disclaimer.

     The geologic hazards ordinance codified in this chapter and geologic hazard maps represent only
those hazardous areas known to the Countymetro township, and should not be construed to include all
possible potential hazard areas. The geologic hazards ordinance and the geologic hazard maps may be
amended as new information becomes available pursuant to procedures set forth in Chapter 19.90. The
provisions of this chapter do not in any way assure or imply that areas outside its boundaries will be free
from the possible adverse effects of geologic hazards. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of
the county, metro township, any officer or employee thereof for any damages from geologic hazards that



                                                                                                   Page 240
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative requirement or decision lawfully made
thereunder.




19.75.110 - Change of use.

     No change in use which results in the conversion of a building or structure from one not used for
human occupancy to one that is so used shall be permitted unless the building or structure complies with
the provisions of this chapter.




19.75.120 - Conflicting regulations.

     In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code,
subdivision ordinance, or any other ordinance of the countymetro township and the geologic hazards
ordinance codified in this chapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.




Chapter 19.76 - SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS



19.76.010 - Effect of chapter provisions.

    The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as the case may be, the
zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.




19.76.020 - Occupancy permit.

A.   Land, buildings and premises in any zone shall hereafter be used only for the purpose listed in this
     title as permitted in that zone, and in accordance with the regulations established in this title in that
     zone.
B.    The permit of occupancy shall be issued by the chief building inspector and the development
     services division director to the effect that the use and/or building or premises conforms to the
     provisions of this title and related ordinances prior to the occupancy of any building hereafter
     erected, enlarged or structurally altered, or where any vacant land is hereafter proposed to be
     occupied or used, except for permitted agricultural uses.
C.   Such a permit shall also be issued whenever the character or use of any building or land is proposed
     to be changed from one use to another use.
D.   Upon written request from the owner, such a permit shall also be issued covering any lawful use of a
     building or premises existing on the effective date of the amendment codified herein, including
     nonconforming buildings and uses.




19.76.030 - Uses not listed—Administrative determination.



                                                                                                    Page 241
     Determination as to the classification of uses not specifically listed in this title shall be made by the
planning and development services division director and shall be subject to appeal to the planning
commission. Such appeal shall be filed in writing within ten days after written notification to applicant of
the planning and development services division director's determination. The procedure shall be as
follows:
     A.   Written Request. A written request for such a determination shall be filed with the planning and
          development services division director. The request shall include a detailed description of the
          proposed use and such other information as may be required.
     B.   Investigation. The planning and development services division director shall thereupon make
          such investigations as are deemed necessary to compare the nature and characteristics of the
          proposed use with those of uses specifically listed in this title, and to make a determination of its
          classification.
     C.    Determination. The determination of the planning and development services division director
          shall be rendered in writing within thirty days unless an extension is granted by the planning
          commission. The determination shall state the zone classification in which the proposed use will
          be permitted as well as the findings which established that such use is of the same character as
          uses permitted in that zone classification. Upon making this decision, the planning and
          development services division director shall forthwith notify the applicant, the planning
          commission and the development services division.
     D.    Effect. The determination and all information pertaining thereto shall become a permanent
          public record in the office of the planning and development services division director. Such use
          shall thereafter become a permitted or conditional use in the class of district specified in the
          determination, and shall have the same status as a permitted or conditional use specifically
          named in the regulations for the zone classification.




19.76.035 - Appeal of planning commission decision.

     Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this title, any person shall have the right to appeal to the
land use hearing officer a decision of the planning commission rendered under this title. Appeals shall
follow the procedure set forth in Section 19.92.050.




19.76.040 - Dwellings to be on lots.

     Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this title.




19.76.050 - Lots in separate ownership.

     The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be construed to prevent the
use for a single-family dwelling of any lot or parcel of land, provided that such lot or parcel of land is
located in a zone which permits single-family dwellings, and is a legally divided lot held in separate
ownership at the time such requirements became effective for such lot or parcel of land.




19.76.060 - Separately owned lots—Reduced yards.



                                                                                                     Page 242
     On any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record at the time of passage of the
ordinance codified herein, and such lot having a smaller width than required for the zone in which it is
located, the width of each of the side yards for a dwelling may be reduced to a width which is not less
than the same percentage of the width of the lot as the required side yard would be of the required lot
width; provided that, on interior lots, the smaller of the two yards shall be in no case less than five feet, or
the larger less than eight feet; and for corner lots, the side yard on the side street shall be in no case less
than ten feet or the other side yard be less than five feet.




19.76.065 - Public use—Reduced lot area and yards.

     The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area and minimum yards may be reduced by the
planning commission for a public use. The planning commission shall not authorize a reduction in the lot
area or yard requirements unless the evidence presented is such as to establish that the reduction will
not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare
of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.




19.76.080 - Lots and buildings on private rights-of-way.

       Except where the requirements of this section are reduced by permit of the land use hearing officer,
the minimum area for any lot fronting on a private right-of-way, at least twenty feet wide, shall be one-half
acre, and the minimum distance from the center of the right-of-way to the front line of the building shall be
fifty feet; except that property that cannot be subdivided as outlined in the subdivision ordinance may be
developed on a private street or right-of-way in any R zone upon approval of the development services
division director. Such approval shall be governed by the official policies regulating such development, as
adopted by the planning commission and on file at the planning commission office.




19.76.090 - Sale of lots below minimum width and area.

     No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements for the zone in
which it is located may be cut off from a large parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future,
of building or development as a lot, except by permit of the land use hearing officer.




19.76.100 - Sale of space needed to meet requirements.

      No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other requirements of this title
for a lot or building may be sold or leased away from such lot or building.




19.76.110 - Yard space for one building only.

     No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided
around any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title shall be considered as
providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on
an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is to be



                                                                                                      Page 243
erected or established. This section shall be so construed to mean only one main building may be
permitted on one lot, unless otherwise provided in this title.




19.76.130 - Accessory buildings—Area of coverage.

    No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential zone shall cover more than
twenty-five percent of the rear yard.




19.76.140 - Private garage or carport—Reduced yards.

      On a lot where a private garage or carport, containing at least one parking space of the two required
parking spaces per dwelling unit for a single-family dwelling or duplex, has the minimum side yard
required for such dwelling, the width of the other side yard may be reduced to the minimum required side
yard. Side yards adjacent to a street on a corner lot may not be reduced. On any lot where such garage
or carport has such side yard, the rear yard of the single-family dwelling or duplex may be reduced to
fifteen feet, provided the garage or carport also has a rear yard of at least fifteen feet.




19.76.160 - Intersecting streets and clear visibility.

      In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of two feet in height shall be
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting
them at points forty feet from the intersection of the street lines, except a reasonable number of trees
pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to automobile drivers, and pumps at gasoline service
stations.




19.76.170 - Height limitations—Buildings less than one story.

     No building shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade.




19.76.190 - Height limitations—Exceptions.

     Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar
equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers,
steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater lofts, silos
or similar structures, may be erected above the height limits prescribed in this title, but no space above
the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space, and no heights are
permitted above the maximum allowed under airport height provisions.




19.76.200 - Additional height allowed when.




                                                                                                    Page 244
     Public or semipublic utility buildings, when authorized in a zone, may be erected to a height not
exceeding seventy-five feet if the building is set back from each otherwise established building line at
least one foot for each additional foot of building height above the normal height limit required for the
zone in which the building is erected.




19.76.210 - Off-site improvements.

A.    Off-Site Improvements Required. The applicant for a building or conditional use permit for all
     dwellings, commercial or industrial uses, and all other business and public and quasi-public uses
     shall provide curb, gutter and sidewalk along the entire property line which abuts any public road or
     street in cases where it does not exist at county standards. Vehicular entrances to the property shall
     be provided as required in Section 14.12.110. Height, location, structural specifications, maximum
     and minimum cut radii and minimum roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are
     subject to the approval of the agency concerned.
B.   Fee in Lieu of Improvements.
     1.   Where conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install such curb, gutter and
          sidewalk, the planning commission may require the applicant to pay to the county a fee equal to
          the estimated cost of such improvements, as determined by the director of development
          services. Upon payment of such fee by the developer, the county shall assume the
          responsibility for future installation of such improvements.
     2.   The auditor shall place such fees in the special account established in Section 18.24.190 of this
          code, and shall credit to such account a proportioned share of interest earned from investment
          of county moneys. Records relating to identification of properties for which fees have been
          collected, fee amounts collected for such properties, and money transfer requests shall be the
          responsibility of the development services division.
C.   Exceptions.
     1.   The planning commission may grant exception to installation of the sidewalk in industrial areas
          where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not necessary to serve the
          public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not jeopardize the public health, safety or
          welfare.
     2.   The planning commission may grant exception to installation of curb, gutter and sidewalk in
          rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions exist, provided that the
          public health, safety and welfare is preserved.




19.76.220 - Water and sewage facilities.

     In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve the use of sewage facilities, and
a sewer, as defined in the countymetro township sewer ordinance, is not available, and all cases where a
proposed supply of piped water under pressure is not available, the sewage disposal and the domestic
water supply shall comply with requirements of the county board of health, and the application for a
building permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the board of health.




19.76.230 - Disconnection or disincorporation of property.




                                                                                                 Page 245
     Any parcel of property which becomes part of the unincorporated area of the county, because of
disconnection from a municipality or disincorporation of a municipality, shall be designated the zoning
classification such parcel had prior to the date it became part of the municipality. In the event such parcel
was unzoned by the county on the date it became part of the municipality, it shall be designated the
zoning classification of A-5 at the time it becomes unincorporated.




19.76.240 - Animal and fowl restrictions.

     No animals or fowl shall be kept or maintained closer than forty feet from any dwelling on an
adjacent parcel of land, and no barn, stable, coop, pen or corral shall be kept closer than forty feet from
any street, except that in the R-2-10C residential zone, no corral or stable for the keeping of horses may
be located closer to a public street or to any dwelling on an adjacent parcel of land than one hundred feet.




19.76.250 - Circuses, carnivals and Christmas tree sales.

A.   The development services division director may issue a temporary use permit for a circus and/or
     carnival or other amusement enterprise of a similar nature, transient in nature, or Christmas tree
     sales, providing he shall find that the use will not conflict with the uses in the neighborhood of the
     subject property. To determine the compatibility of uses, the development services division director
     may call a public hearing. Request for such permit shall be submitted in writing.
B.   In issuing a permit, the development services division director may:
     1.   Stipulate the length of time the permit may remain valid;
     2.   Stipulate the hours of operation of the use;
     3.   Stipulate other regulations which are necessary for the public welfare.




19.76.260 - Day-care and preschool center—Special conditions.

     A day care/preschool center, as defined in Section 19.04.160 of this title, shall be subject to the
following conditions:
     A.   Must be compatible with existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity;
     B.   Receive recommendation of the Utah State Department of Social Services;
     C.   Provide required parking spaces on the site and an adequate pickup and delivery area;
     D.    New construction must be compatible in design and scale of building with existing development
          in the area;
     E.    Site must have frontage on a street with an existing or proposed right-of-way of eighty feet or
          greater, as identified on the road widening and improvement map attached to the ordinance
          codified herein and available in the planning commission office (except where the site is located
          in the R-M, MD-1, MD-3, C-1, C-2, C-3, O-R-D, M-1 or M-2 zones).




19.76.270 - Overpressure area.




                                                                                                   Page 246
      Development in the overpressure area as defined in Section 15.14.010 and shown on the special
development standards areas map shall comply with Sections 15.14.030, 15.14.040, 15.14.050 and this
section. The special development standards areas map is available in the development services division
office during regular office hours.




19.76.280 - Commercial renting of dwellings prohibited.

     It shall be deemed a commercial use and unlawful to rent or lease any dwelling or portion thereof
located within any forestry, residential, agricultural or foothill agricultural zones listed in Section 19.06.010
for lodging or accommodation purposes for a period less than thirty consecutive days except as
specifically allowed in the FM-10, FM-20, FR-0.5, FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20, FR-50, FR-100, R-
2-6.5, R-2-8, R-2-10, R-2-10C, R-4-8.5, MD-1, MD-3, and R-M zones.




19.76.290 - Single-family or two-family dwelling—Standards.

      Any detached single-family or two-family dwelling located on an individual lot outside of a mobile
home park or mobile home subdivision must meet the off-street parking requirements in Chapter 19.80
and the following standards in addition to any others required by law except as provided in subsection I of
this section:
     A.   The dwelling unit must meet the Salt Lake County BuildingInternational Residential Code or, if it
          is a manufactured home, it must be certified under the National Manufactured Housing
          Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and must have been issued an insignia and
          approved by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and must not have been
          altered in violation of such codes. A used manufactured home must be inspected by the county
          building official or his designated representative prior to placement on a lot to insure it has not
          been altered in violation of such codes.
     B.    The dwelling must be taxed as real property. If the dwelling is a manufactured home, an
          affidavit must be filed with the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 59-2-
          602.
     C.   The dwelling must be permanently connected to and approved for all required utilities.
     D.   The dwelling must provide a minimum of seventy-two square feet (per dwelling unit) of enclosed
          storage, with a minimum height of six feet, located in the basement or garage area or in an
          accessory storage structure. Such structure shall conform to all applicable building codes.
     E.    The dwelling must be attached to a site-built permanent foundation which meets the Uniform
          Building Code or, if the dwelling is a manufactured home, the installation must meet the ICBO
          Guidelines for Manufactured Housing Installations, including any successors to these
          standards, and the space beneath the structure must be enclosed at the perimeter of the
          dwelling in accordance with such ICBO Guidelines, and constructed of materials that are
          weather-resistant and aesthetically consistent with concrete or masonry type foundation
          materials. At each exit door there must be a landing that is a minimum of thirty-six inches by
          thirty-six inches and that is constructed to meet the requirements of the Uniform Building Code.
          All manufactured home running gear, tongues, axles and wheels must be removed at the time
          of installation.
     F.   At least sixty percent of the roof of the dwelling must be pitched at a minimum of two and one-
          half to twelve (2.5:12) and shall have a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt, composition,
          wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles or slate or built-up gravel materials.




                                                                                                       Page 247
     G.    The dwelling shall have exterior siding material consisting of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco,
          masonite, or metal or vinyl lap, or any material meeting the Uniform Building Code or materials
          of like appearance approved by the development services director. The roof overhang must not
          be less than six inches, including rain gutters which may account for up to four inches of
          overhang, measured from the vertical side of the dwelling. The roof overhang requirement shall
          not apply to areas above porches, alcoves and other appendages which together do not exceed
          twenty-five percent of the length of the dwelling. The roof overhang may be reduced to two
          inches on the side of the dwelling facing the rear yard except on corner lots.
     H.    The width of the dwelling shall be at least twenty feet at the narrowest part of its first story for a
          length of at least twenty feet exclusive of any garage area. The width shall be considered the
          lesser of the two primary dimensions. Factory-built or manufactured homes shall be multiple
          transportable sections at least ten feet wide unless transportable in three or more sections, in
          which case only one section need be ten feet wide.
     I.   The development services director may approve deviations from one or more of the
          developmental or architectural standards provided in subsections E through H of this section on
          the basis of a finding that the architectural style proposed provides compensating design
          features and that the proposed dwelling will be compatible and harmonious with existing
          structures in the vicinity. The determination of the development services director may be
          appealed to the land use hearing officer pursuant to the provisions of subsection C of Section
          19.92.070.
     J.   Except as limited by subsection K of this section, use of one manufactured home as a dwelling
          on a parcel of land located outside of a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision prior to
          the initiation by the countymetro township of the enactment of the ordinance codified in this
          section, which use does not meet the requirements set forth in subsections A through H of this
          section shall be considered as a nonconforming dwelling though not previously approved by the
          countymetro township if such manufactured home and the parcel on which it is located comes
          into compliance by December 31, 1990, with all development standards which would have been
          applicable to a single-family dwelling located on such parcel at the time the manufactured home
          was first used on the parcel as a dwelling. Development standards shall include subdivision,
          zoning, flood control, outside electrical hookup, applicable fees, health, and fire department
          requirements for single-family dwellings on such parcel.
     K.   The use of a manufactured home as a dwelling located on an individual parcel or lot outside of
          a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision shall terminate on December 31, 1990, unless
          the owner opts to have the manufactured home taxed as real property on or before such date
          by filing an affidavit with the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 59-2-602
          and meeting the requirements of that statute for having the manufactured home taxed as real
          property.
     L.   Replacement of an existing nonconforming manufactured home on a lot outside a mobile home
          park or mobile home subdivision shall comply with all requirements herein.




19.76.300 - Oil and gas transmission pipeline notification.

A.    A notification area is hereby established for any parcels within six hundred sixty feet from the
     mapped centerline of an oil or gas transmission pipeline, as indicated by the county's pipeline
     protection map, a geographic information system (GIS) based map. The countymetro township
     makes no warranty as to the accuracy of this map, which reflects information provided by pipeline
     operators.
B.    At the time of application for a development permit the countydevelopment services division shall
     notify the applicant if the proposed development is within the notification area and provide contact
     information for the pipeline operator(s) in the area and for Utah's one-call program. It is the obligation


                                                                                                       Page 248
     of pipeline operators to correct or update their information with the countydevelopment services
     division.
C.    If any proposed development is within the notification area, the applicant for a development permit
     shall contact the pipeline operators) and provide them with a copy of the application and timely
     notice of the first scheduled public hearing on the application, if there is one. The applicant shall file
     proof of this notification with the county planning and development division before any development
     permit may be issued. Proof of notification shall be kept on file with the application. Once the
     development permit is issued, it is the responsibility of the applicant to consider any comments and
     recommendations posed by the pipeline operator(s) to ensure no pipelines are damaged during
     construction of the approved project.
D.   Subdivision plats within two hundred feet from the centerline of a pipeline as shown on the county's
     pipeline protection map shall show the pipeline location on the plat. The location of all known oil or
     gas transmission lines and related easements shall also be shown on all zoning, building and record
     plat maps.




19.76.310 - Oil and gas transmission pipeline map modification.

A.   It is the obligation of pipeline operators to correct or update the county's pipeline protection map, and
     they shall do this by filing an application to modify the map. The application shall be presented to the
     development services director or designee for review and approval. Complete application must
     include:
     1.   An explanation from the pipeline operator(s) of how the corrected or proposed location was
          determined for each transmission pipeline; and
     2.   Electronic GIS data or detailed drawings delineating the correct or proposed location.




Chapter 19.77 - WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS



19.77.010 - Purpose and intent.

A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the protection and enhancement of Salt
     Lake County's environmental, economic, recreational, and aesthetic resources. The landscape
     design and development standards set forth in this chapter are intended to promote the following:
     1.   More efficient use of water resources for landscape irrigation purposes;
     2.   Preservation and enhancement of the county's environmental and aesthetic character;
     3.   Enhancement of land use compatibility and promotion of design continuity between adjacent
          land uses;
     4.   Reduction of energy consumption through the prudent placement of plant materials;
     5.   Improved management of stormwater runoff;
     6.   Reduction in the absorption and re-generation of heat from paved vehicular parking areas and
          other impervious surfaces;
     7.   Separation of vehicular and pedestrian functions within on-site vehicular circulation and parking
          areas;



                                                                                                     Page 249
    8.    Spatial and visual separation of parked vehicles from public view and adjacent vehicular travel
          ways;
    9.    Reduction of vehicular headlight glare and intrusive artificial light onto area residences;
    10.    Reduction of development-related environmental impacts through improved management of
          erosion, noise, dust, air pollution and glare;
    11.    Re-introduction of native and low water use plant species into the developed environment;
    12.    Reduction of landscape maintenance responsibilities and costs.




19.77.020 - Scope and applicability.

     Homeowner-provided landscape improvements within the front, side and rear yards of single- and
two-family dwellings are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
    A.     Newly Established Land Uses. Except as noted above, these landscape standards shall be
          applied to all new developments in the unincorporated area of Salt Lake County. Residential
          development projects such as but not limited to planned unit developments, condominiums,
          multifamily residential developments and residential subdivision projects in which improvements
          such as but not limited to the dwelling units, common area, recreational amenities and
          infrastructure improvements are provided by the developer shall be landscaped in accordance
          with the requirements of this chapter.
    B.     Existing Developments. Land use developments in existence at the effective date of this
          chapter shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be brought into compliance with the chapter's
          provisions if:
    1.     The gross floor area of improvements existing on the property at the effective date of this
          chapter are changed, modified, or expanded by more than twenty percent. Compliance under
          the noted circumstances applies whether the changes, modifications, or expansions occur in a
          single event or in incremental stages.
    C.    Off-Street Parking.
    1.    New Developments. Off-street parking facilities for all new developments shall be landscaped in
          accordance with the requirements of this chapter. These include:
          a.   Surface or at-grade parking areas;
          b.   The exterior perimeter of parking structures at all levels, as well as the open-air top parking
               level of such structures.
    2.    Existing Parking Areas. Off-street parking areas in existence on the effective date of this chapter
          shall be brought into compliance with the provisions of the chapter as noted below:
          a.   Expansion by Fifty Percent or Less. When an existing off-street parking area is expanded
               by fifty percent or less the newly established expansion area shall be brought into
               compliance with both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape requirements of this
               chapter.
          b.    Expansion by More Than Fifty Percent. When an existing off-street parking area is
               expanded by more than fifty percent, the entire expansion area shall be brought into
               compliance with both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape standards of this
               section. The pre-existing parking area, while not required to be retroactively brought into
               compliance with this section's interior parking area landscape requirements, shall be made
               to conform to exterior/perimeter area landscape standards.




                                                                                                        Page 250
          c.   Repeated Expansions. Repeated expansions of a parking lot area over a period of time
               commencing with the effective date of this chapter shall be combined in determining
               whether the fifty percent threshold has been reached.
D.   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following:
     1.   The interior undercover portions of parking structures;
     2.   The interior undercover portions of carports containing no more than ten parking spaces;
     3.   The interior display areas of vehicle and equipment sales lots;
     4.   The interior areas of vehicle and equipment storage lots;
     5.   Properties listed on the national or state historic registers.
                In addition, areas dedicated and used for the following specific purposes are exempt from
          the landscape water allowance limitations of this chapter:
               a.   Sports fields;
               b.   Turf areas within public parks;
               c.   Golf courses;
               d.   Cemeteries.
       Although exempt from landscape water allowance limitations, all other provisions of this chapter shall
apply. In particular, landscaping shall be provided in the interior and perimeter areas of off-street parking
facilities, adjacent to buildings, and along walkways.




19.77.030 - Promotion of maximum water efficiency.

A.    Establishment and Maintenance of a Site-Specific Landscape Water Allowance. So as to assure
     more efficient water consumption in the establishment and long-term maintenance of site landscape
     improvements, an annual landscape water allowance shall be established and maintained for each
     property improved as set forth in this chapter.
     The landscape water allowance shall be calculated using the following equation:
          Landscape Water Allowance = ET0 × 1.0 × 0.62 × A where landscape water allowance is in
     gallons per year.
          ET0 = Reference evapotranspiration in inches per year.
          1.0 = ET0 adjustment factor, one hundred percent of turf grass ET0 (water year adjustment
     factor).
          0.62 = Conversion factor (to gallons per square feet).
          A = Total irrigated landscape area in square feet.
      The ET0 or reference evapotranspiration for Salt Lake County is 31.18 inches per year. Converting
this figure so that a landscape water allowance can be expressed in gallons per year requires the use of
the conversion factor to obtain an equivalent amount in gallons per square feet (19.33). An ET0
adjustment factor of one is used in order to accommodate the use of turf under circumstances that
promote maximum water efficiency.
     Acceptable water efficiency shall be deemed to have been achieved when the approved landscape
plan indicates a landscape water allowance of no more than fifteen gallons per square foot average for
the entire landscaped area of the site. Multiplying this figure by the total irrigated landscape area in
square feet yields the annual water budget for landscape use for the property.



                                                                                                   Page 251
B.    Introduction and Use of Native and Other Drought-Tolerant Plants. In order to promote maximum
     water conservation, not less than eighty percent of the trees and shrubs used on a site shall be water
     conserving species capable of withstanding dry conditions once established. Native plants shall be
     used to the maximum extent feasible. Drought-tolerant grass varieties shall be used in areas planted
     in turf or lawn. Lists of plants that satisfy these requirements and that are available locally may be
     obtained from the director.
C.    Plant Establishment and Arrangement on the Basis of Water Consumption. Among the many ways
     in which plants may be distinguished from one another is categorization on the basis of water use.
     Establishment and arrangement of plants on a site according to the water needs of those plants is
     commonly referred to as hydrozone management. Hydrozone management is required by this
     chapter and shall be implemented through the use of the following:
     1.   Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible.
     2.   Areas landscaped with high water use plants shall be, whenever possible, separated from those
          with low and very low water use by moderate water use landscape zones.
     3.    For projects located at the interface between urban areas and natural (nonirrigated) open
          space, drought-tolerant plants that will blend with the native vegetation shall be selected. Plants
          that tend to accumulate excessive amount of dead wood or debris are to be avoided. Plants
          with low fuel volume or high moisture content are preferred. Every effort is to be taken to
          minimize fire hazards. Lists of plants that satisfy these requirements and that are available
          locally may be obtained from the director.
     4.   Areas with slopes greater than thirty percent shall be landscaped with deep-rooting, water-
          conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization.
     5.   Park strips and other landscaped areas less than ten feet wide shall be landscaped with water-
          conserving plants.
D.   Irrigation System Requirements.
     1.    Designer Qualifications. All sprinkler irrigation systems shall be designed by a qualified
          professional who is licensed under Utah Code Title 58 or by a person who is exempt from
          professional licensure requirements for the scope of work performed.
     2.   Design Standards. Irrigation design standards applicable to this chapter shall be as outlined in
          the latest version of the minimum standards for efficient landscape irrigation system design and
          installation prepared by the Utah Irrigation Association, subject to the following modifications
          and additions:
          a.   Pressure Regulation. A pressure regulating valve shall be installed and maintained if the
               static service pressure exceeds eighty pounds per square inch (psi).
          b.   Automatic Controller. All irrigation systems shall include an electric automatic controller
               with multiple programs, multiple repeat cycle capabilities so as to reduce runoff on slopes
               and soils with slow infiltration rates, and a flexible calendar program. All controllers shall be
               capable of utilizing an automatic rain shut-off device, and the ability to adjust run times
               based on a percentage of maximum ET0.
          c.   Slope Adjustments. On slopes exceeding thirty percent, the irrigation system shall consist
               of low precipitation rate rotors or spray heads, drip emitters, or bubblers with a maximum
               precipitation rate of 0.85 inches per hour and adjusted irrigation cycle times to eliminate
               runoff.
          d.   Irrigation Zones and Use. Each zone shall irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope and
               soil conditions and plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf and nonturf areas shall
               be irrigated on separate zones. Drip emitters and sprinklers shall be placed on separate
               zones.




                                                                                                      Page 252
          e.   Tree Irrigation. Drip emitters or bubblers shall be provided for each tree not planted in a turf
               area. Irrigation in the vicinity shall be factored in to prevent under or over-watering and to
               ensure deep root growth. Bubblers shall not exceed one and one-half gallons per minute
               per device. Bubblers for trees shall be placed on a separate valve as warranted by tree
               species and area conditions.
          f.   Turf Zones. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each zone.
          g.   Elevation Adjustments. Check valves shall be required where elevation differences will
               cause low-head drainage. Pressure regulating valves and pressure compensating heads
               and drip emitters with a pressure regulating device shall be required where a significant
               variation in water pressure will occur within the irrigation system due to elevation
               differences.
          h.   Requirements for Drip Irrigation. Drip irrigation lines shall have filters and automatic end
               flush valves and be protected by organic or rock mulch.
          i.   Automatic Controller Zones. Zones with spray or stream sprinklers shall not be scheduled to
                operate between the hours of ten a.m. to seven p.m. so as to reduce water loss from wind
                and evaporation. Drip irrigation systems are subject to no such operational constraints.
          j.   Operational Efficiency. The minimum efficiency required for irrigation systems established in
               accordance with the requirements of this chapter is as follows:
               i.    The distribution efficiency for all fixed spray systems shall be sixty percent.
               ii.   The distribution efficiency for all rotor systems shall be seventy percent.
          k.   Scheduling of System Operations. A schedule shall be developed which allows for plant
               material to be established. This shall have a maximum two-year time period. Once
               established, a revised schedule shall be developed for maintenance of the plant material.
               The schedule presently in effect shall be posted at the controller. The schedule shall reflect
               an application rate which achieves optimum system efficiency, a minimum one-hour time
               interval between all applications, and provisions against irrigation during restricted hours.




19.77.040 - Landscape design standards and guidelines.

A.   Standards Applicable to All Developments. Required site landscape improvements shall be provided
     in accordance with the standards and design guidelines set forth in this chapter. The standards set
     forth herein are numerically measurable so as to readily facilitate the preparation, review and
     approval of landscape plan submittals and the subsequent verification of compliance with the
     requirements of the chapter. Design guidelines, though not precisely measurable, are intended to
     clarify the principles associated with specified standards, provide guidance for the review and
     approval of submitted landscape plans, and provide flexibility for design professionals who wish to
     propose alternative compliance approaches.
B.    Retention of Significant Natural Features. Features that are unique to a property, such as but not
     limited to that property's natural topography, existing vegetation, or riparian features shall be taken
     into consideration in the planning and design of landscape improvements for that property. Priority is
     to be given to the preservation or protection of existing natural areas, particularly where mature or
     specimen trees or wooded riparian areas are a part of a proposed development site. The proposed
     locations of streets, buildings and lots shall, as much as possible, minimize disturbance to significant
     existing trees.
C.   Tree Preservation, Removal and Replacement.




                                                                                                       Page 253
     1.    All healthy trees having a caliper of four inches in size or larger shall be preserved to the
          maximum extent feasible. Preserved trees shall be credited to the satisfaction of replacement
          trees on a three to one caliper-to-caliper basis.
     2.   Preserved trees shall be credited toward the satisfaction of the tree planting requirements of this
          chapter.
     3.   Where existing trees are to be protected, the following standards shall apply:
          a.   A fenced tree protection zone shall be established around each tree or cluster of trees to
               be retained. The perimeter of this zone, which shall coincide with the drip line of the tree or
               trees to be protected, shall be clearly marked with high-visibility materials at a minimum
               height of four feet.
          b.   The storage or movement of equipment, material, debris or fill is prohibited within the
               fenced tree protection zone so as to minimize soil compaction.
          c.   The cleaning of equipment or material or the storage and disposal of waste material such
               as paints, oils, solvents, asphalt, concrete, motor oil or any other material harmful to the life
               of a tree is prohibited within the drip line of any protected tree or group of trees.
          d.   No cut or fill is permitted within the drip line of any protected existing tree or group of trees
               unless a qualified arborist, forester or landscape architect has evaluated and approved the
               disturbance.
          e.   All protected existing trees shall be pruned as specified by a qualified arborist or forester.
          f.   No damaging attachment, wires, signs or permits may be fastened to any protected tree.
          g.   Large property areas containing protected trees and separated from construction or land
               clearing areas, road rights-of-way and utility easements may be "ribboned off," rather than
               erecting protective fencing around each tree as required above. This may be accomplished
               by placing metal t-post stakes a maximum of fifty feet apart and tying ribbon or rope from
               stake-to-stake along the outside perimeters of such areas being cleared.
     4.   The removal of trees is allowed under the following circumstances:
          a.   Where trees have naturally fallen or are determined by a licensed arborist to be dead or
               dying.
          b.   Where trees have been diagnosed by a qualified arborist as unhealthy beyond reasonable
               rehabilitation.
          c.   Where trees are determined to be potentially harmful to the public health, safety or welfare.
          d.   Where it has been determined by the county that tree removal is necessary to restore clear
               visibility at driveways and intersections.
          e.   Where the preservation of trees would prevent reasonable site grading to accommodate a
               functional arrangement of buildings and related improvements on the property. Written
               documentation of the above is required prior to the removal of any tree.
     5.   Trees having a caliper of four inches in size or greater which are removed shall be replaced on
          the development site by trees of no less than two-inch caliper in size. The required replacement
          ratio shall be one tree for every two caliper inches (cumulative) of trees removed. Replacement
          trees shall not be credited toward the satisfaction of the tree planting requirements of this
          chapter but shall be in addition to that otherwise specified.
D.   Exposure to Sun and Wind. Plant selection and placement shall recognize the importance of energy
     conservation. Deciduous trees which are sun tolerant shall be planted on the south and west sides of
     buildings so as to provide shade from summer sun while allowing winter sun to radiate into buildings.
     Shade-tolerant plants and evergreen trees shall be planted on the north to northwest sides of
     buildings in order to reduce the chilling effects of winter winds.



                                                                                                      Page 254
E.    New Plantings. The measurements and specifications for all live plants used to fulfill the
     requirements of this chapter shall be as set forth in the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI
     Z60.1-204) as published and periodically amended by the American Nursery and Landscape
     Association. The following are minimums in relation to those standards. Nothing in this chapter shall
     be interpreted to prohibit the provision of landscape improvements in excess of these minimums.
     1.     Plant Quality. Required plant materials shall be nursery or field grown, unless otherwise
           approved, and shall be healthy, well-branched vigorous stock with a growth habit normal to the
           species and variety, free from defects decay, disfiguring roots, sun-scald, injuries, abrasions of
           the bark, plant diseases, insect pest eggs, borers and all forms of infestations or objectionable
           disfigurements of diseases, insects and injuries.
     2.    Plant Coverage and Growth Rate. The quantity and size of materials planted shall be sufficient
           to attain a percentage of coverage of seventy-five percent of organically planted areas within
           three years of initial planting.
     3.    Species Diversity. A variety of plant species shall be utilized in all site landscaping. No one
           species may make up more than twenty-five percent of the total nonturf plant materials within
           the landscaped area. In order to prevent uniform insect or disease susceptibility and to stem the
           untimely degeneration or premature deterioration of trees planted or retained on a development
           site or in the adjacent area, species diversity is required. The following minimum requirements
           shall apply.

          Total Number of Trees on Site                    Maximum Percent of Any One Species

                     10—19                                                  50%

                     20—39                                                  33%

                     40—59                                                  25%

                   60 or more                                               15%




                Special consideration shall be given to canyon areas to protect against decimation due to
           insect or disease infestations.
     4.    Lawn and Turf Areas. Areas proposed for planting in turf or lawn shall be a minimum of ten feet
           in width. Drought-tolerant grass varieties shall be established and maintained.
     5.    Mulch. All landscape areas not planted with shrubs, perennials, turf or other groundcover shall
           be covered with a minimum three-inch layer of mulch (except around the crown of plants) to
           retain water, inhibit weed growth, and moderate soil temperature. Newly planted trees in areas
           predominantly improved with turf shall be provided a plant-free mulched area with a minimum
           radius of four feet around the trunks in order to protect the trunks from turf-maintenance
           operations and expedite tree root establishment. Nonporous materials (e.g., plastic) shall not be
           placed under the mulch. Bare soil is not permitted.
     6.    Tree Placement. Trees shall be located to provide summer shade and limit winter shade on
           walks, parking lots, and streets.
     7.    Root Accommodation. Prior to the installation of trees, a determination shall be made as to
           whether root barriers are necessary to prevent roots from uplifting or cracking sidewalks or
           other hard surface improvements in the vicinity of the tree. Root barrier collars and root path



                                                                                                   Page 255
           trenches shall be installed as needed to provide such protection and to ensure healthy tree root
           growth.
     8.    Tree Size Requirements at Planting. All new and replacement trees shall meet the following
           minimum size requirements at planting:

a. Deciduous                                             two-inch caliper

b. Ornamental and flowering                              one and one-half inch caliper

c. Evergreen                                             six feet tall




     Where the above plant materials are secured on the basis of container size, equivalency shall be in
accordance with the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1-204) as published and
periodically amended by the American Nursery and Landscape Association.
     9.    Shrub Size at Planting. All shrubs shall be a minimum of twelve inches in height or spread
           (typically five gallon in size at planting, except when used solely for screening purposes, in
           which case twenty-four inch in height or spread is required.
     10.     Area Requirements for Landscape Improvements. No less than twenty percent of the gross
           area of a property subject to the requirements of this chapter shall be improved and maintained
           as landscape area. Land area encumbered by buildings, structures, paving and other
           impervious surfaces not related to on-site landscape improvements shall not be considered in
           the calculation of landscape area.
F.   Design Guidelines. The intent of design guidelines is to acknowledge the expertise and integrity of
     licensed design professionals and to afford them a commensurate level of flexibility in achieving the
     purposes and intent of this chapter. Guidelines are included in this chapter so as to clarify or expand
     upon the principles associated with specified standards. They are further provided for guidance in
     the preparation and submittal of complying landscape plans. Design guidelines may be used either in
     conjunction with or in lieu of other required on-site landscape improvements. When employed in lieu
     of strict compliance with chapter provisions, substantiation of compliance with the purposes and
     intent of this chapter is required.
     1.    Separation and Screening with Plant Material. The intent of this guideline is to soften long
           expanses of building walls, fences and other hard-surface barriers and to effectively screen
           such surfaces from undisturbed on- or off-site view. Its further intent is to separate and screen
           new buildings and ancillary site improvements and activities from off-premise view.
     2.    Integration with Plantings. The intent of this guideline is twofold; (1) to provide better integration
           of newly constructed or remodeled site building improvements and outdoor spaces with other
           site improvements in the vicinity, or (2) to significantly enhance area characteristics through the
           coordinated introduction of new architectural themes, outdoor areas, and landscape
           improvements into areas in need of rehabilitation. In either event the incorporation of a diversity
           of plant materials, colors, textures, heights and aesthetic considerations of a similar nature may
           be employed.
     3.    Establishing Privacy. Privacy is particularly important where larger buildings are proposed next
           to the side or rear yards of smaller buildings. In such instances a higher-than-normal incidence
           of vertical landscape elements may be employed to address privacy concerns.
     4.     Land Form Shaping. Retention of existing land form is encouraged where site topography
           beneficially serves aesthetic and aquifer recharge purposes. Where reconfiguration of existing
           topographic conditions on a site is required to achieve these purposes, such grade changes


                                                                                                       Page 256
          should be either reminiscent of or complementary to natural land forms in the vicinity. The
          resulting land form modifications should, in either event, incorporate a high degree of both
          horizontal and vertical land form articulation, creating both berms and swales for aesthetic
          variety and groundwater collection purposes.
     5.   Visual Integration of Fences or Walls. Security fences and solid visual barriers commonly
          detract from the aesthetics of the area in which they're established. Similarly, though not so
          severely, garden walls, privacy fences, screen panels, arbors, and structures of a like nature
          may adversely affect area aesthetics. In such instances creative landscape enhancements may
          be employed to change the sense of proximity to such structures and to improve area
          aesthetics.
          In applying these or similar strategies to achieve the purposes and intent of this chapter, the
     objectives with regards to aesthetic enhancement of on-site improvements are to:
          a.   Add visual interest adjacent to large expanses of building walls;
          b.   Enhance the architectural features of new building construction;
          c.   Provide better site integration of structural improvements;
          d.   Soften hard edges;
          e.   Enhance the compatibility of land uses of different character, intensity, and density;
          f.   Reduce the potentially adverse impacts of site-generated noise;
          g.   Screen views into or between windows and defined outdoor spaces;
              In applying these or similar strategies with regards to the integration of on-site
          improvements with surrounding areas, the objectives are to:
               i.     Mitigate potential conflicts between divergent land uses, development densities or
                      intensities, and building design or scale;
               ii.    Maintain privacy for existing area residences;
               iii.    Provide appropriate transitions between developed, managed landscape areas and
                      those comprised of more natural vegetation;
               iv.    Introduce high quality site improvements into areas in need of redevelopment.




19.77.050 - Landscape yards or setbacks and buffer areas.

A.   Landscaping Required.
     1.    Improvement Requirements in Relation to Yard Depth. In all zones where a front yard is
          required the entire frontage and depth of that yard area and any side yard area abutting a street
          shall be landscaped. Visibility at intersecting streets shall be maintained as set forth in Section
          19.76.160 of this title. Parking areas shall not encroach on these minimum required setbacks
          except as herein authorized. The perimeter boundaries of all off-street parking areas that abut
          streets accessible to the public shall be landscaped and screened from public view. Specified
          yard area depth measurements are from the public right-of-way or private street easement
          boundary.
          a.   Front and street side areas where a yard or setback depth of no less than twenty feet is
               maintained.
               i.     An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three feet
                      horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm traversing
                      the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of three feet and an



                                                                                                    Page 257
            average height of thirty-two inches, as measured from the grade of the closest
            abutting sidewalk or top of curb.
     ii.    Landscaping within yards located between a street and a parking area shall include
            street trees as specified in this chapter. In addition, not less than fifty percent of these
            landscaped yards shall include a mix of evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous
            perennials, and nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf
            and utilized for the placement of large boulders or similar visual accents so long as
            the combination of berms, plantings and visual accents effectively screen from public
            view any parked vehicles in contiguous off-street parking areas on the property.
b.   Provisions for Yard Reductions to No Less Than Fifteen Feet. Front and street side yards
     or setback areas with no abutting off-street parking may be reduced to a depth of not less
     than fifteen feet with provision of the following:
     i.     An open decorative fence (picket, split rail, etc.) on the interior side of the landscaped
             area. Alternatively, a continuous hedge no less than three feet in height at planting, as
             measured from the grade of the abutting sidewalk or street, may be provided.
     ii.    An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three feet
            horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm traversing
            the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of thirty-two inches and an
            average height of two feet, as measured from the grade of the closest abutting
            sidewalk or top of curb.
     iii.   No less than seventy-five percent coverage of the landscaped area with street trees
            (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter together with a mix of sub-
            canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and nonturf
            groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf and utilized for the
            placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
c.   Provisions for encroachment of off-street parking areas into required front and street side
     yards or setback areas.
     i.     Encroachments to Within Twelve Feet. Off-street parking areas may encroach into
            required front and street side yard or setback areas such that a minimum depth of not
            less than twelve feet is maintained subject to provision of the following:
            (A)    An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three
                  feet horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide an earthen berm traversing
                  the entire width of the area with a height of no less than thirty inches above the
                  grade of the abutting sidewalk or street and supported on its interior side by a
                  masonry retaining wall no less than four feet in height above the grade of the
                  abutting off-street parking area surface. The use of this alternative is restricted to
                  properties where it is feasible to provide a parking area with a finished grade at
                  least two feet below the grade of the adjacent street.
            (B)     No less than seventy-five percent coverage of the landscaped area with street
                  trees (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter, together with a
                  mix of sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and
                  nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf and utilized
                  for the placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
     ii.    Encroachments to Within Eight Feet. Off-street parking areas may encroach into
            required front and street side yard or setback areas such that a minimum depth of not
            less than eight feet is maintained subject to provision of the following:
            (A)    A horizontally and vertically articulated decorative wall along the interior edge of
                  the yard or setback area. Said wall shall have a minimum height of thirty-six
                  inches, a maximum height of forty-eight inches and an average overall height of
                  forty-two inches as measured from the adjacent paved parking area, if provided,


                                                                                              Page 258
                          or from the adjacent sidewalk or street surface level, if not. In plan view the
                          decorative screen wall shall vary by eight to sixteen-inch offsets at linear intervals
                          along the wall of every eight to ten feet.
                    (B)     No less than ninety percent coverage of the landscaped area with street trees
                          (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter, together with a mix of
                          sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and
                          nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area must be surfaced with mulch in
                          accordance with the standards of this chapter and may be utilized for the
                          placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
                         NOTE: Site improvements in conjunction with permitted and conditionally
                    permitted uses in the M-1 and M-2 manufacturing zones are exempt from the above
                    landscape area requirements.
     2.    Plant Quantities. Regardless of depth, all landscape areas adjacent to a street (including
          required park strips) shall be planted and maintained with the following:
          a.   One and one-fourth trees per one thousand sq. ft. of the ground or main floor level of
               nonresidential buildings in commercial zones.
          b.   Two trees per one thousand sq. ft. of the ground or main floor level of buildings in
               manufacturing zones.
          c.   One tree per twenty-five lineal feet of street frontage (not applicable to manufacturing and
               warehouse uses).
          d.   One shrub per four lineal feet of building foundation (may be grouped).
          e.   Any combination of other live plant materials and decorative features consistent with the
               requirements of this chapter.
B.   Interior Side and Rear Yards. The side and rear yard areas required by this title shall be landscaped
     and maintained as set forth in this chapter. Overhanging or cantilevered structures may not encroach
     upon such areas.
C.    Buffer Areas Between Nonresidential and Residential Land Uses. A landscaped buffer area not less
     than twenty feet wide shall be required between nonresidential and residential uses. A minimum of
     one tree for every twenty-five linear feet of landscape buffer is required. Either a linear or cluster
     arrangement of trees is allowed so long as the spacing of provided trees adequately screens the
     nonresidential use from the adjacent residential area. If a linear arrangement of trees is provided,
     tree spacing shall not exceed twenty-five feet on center.




19.77.060 - Parking lot landscaping.

A.   Interior Parking Planters. Landscaped planters, which may incorporate depressions for the collection
     of stormwater run-off, shall be provided in any parking lot containing twenty or more parking spaces.
     These planters shall be constructed to the following standards.
     1.   Landscape Planter Types.
          a.   Islands. Islands are planter areas parallel to and situated at the end of a row of individual
               parking stalls.
          b.   Peninsulas. Peninsulas are planter areas parallel to and situated at specified intervals
               within a row of parking stalls.
          c.   Medians. Medians are planter areas perpendicular to and separating opposing rows of
               head-in parking stalls.



                                                                                                      Page 259
     2.   Landscape Planter Construction.
          a.   Landscape planters shall be constructed of continuous concrete curb in accordance with
               applicable county standards and of no less than six inches in height unless a depression
               area for collection of stormwater runoff is provided.
          b.   A minimum four-foot radius curbing shall be provided along drive aisles.
     3.   Location, Spacing and Minimum Number of Landscape Planters Required. Landscape planters
          shall be provided in accordance with the following:
          a.   One island at each end of a row of parking stalls, together with either:
               i.    One peninsula for every six contiguous parking spaces or portion thereof per row
                     where uninterrupted vehicular traffic flow is allowed between abutting parking spaces;
                     or
               ii.   One continuous median per row of head-in parking stalls.
          b.   Flexibility is allowed in the configuration of landscape planters for rows with angled parking.
     4.   Landscape Planter Length. The length of each landscape planter, measured from face of curb
          to face of curb, shall be as follows:
          a.   As an island at the end of a row of individual parking stalls, fifteen feet; for opposing rows
               of head-in parking stalls, thirty feet.
          b.   As a peninsula parallel to a row of parking spaces, fifteen feet.
          c.   As a median abutting a single row of parking stalls or as a divider median separating
               opposing rows of head-in parking stalls, equal to the length of each row.
     5.   Landscape Planter Width. The width of each landscape planter, measured from face of curb to
          face of curb, shall be no less than:
          a.   Eight feet for each island at the end of a row of parking stalls.
          b.   Nine feet for each peninsula within a row of parking stalls.
          c.   Eight feet, with consideration for vehicle overhang, where divider medians occur adjacent
               to head-in, and ten feet, with the same considerations, for divider medians separating
               opposing rows of head-in parking stalls. Where divider medians are improved with
               pedestrian walkways, the specified width is exclusive of the width of those walkways.
     6.    Vehicular Ingress/Egress Accommodation. That portion (eighteen inches minimum) of each
          landscape planter peninsula or island adjacent to a vehicular parking space shall be finished
          with a pervious surface suitable for temporary pedestrian use when exiting a vehicle.
          Alternatively, each such parking space may be provided at an additional eighteen-inch width
          and striped for pedestrian use. Stepping stones and graveled pathways shall be dispersed
          across and along median islands to minimize soil compaction and protect plant root zones.
     7.   Distribution of Landscaped Planters. Interior planting areas shall be located to most effectively
          accommodate stormwater runoff, provide positive drainage away from buildings, and provide
          maximum shade for large expanses of paving.
B.   Plant Quantity, Size, and Diversity in Parking Lot Landscaped Planters.
          l.   Minimum Number of Plants Required.
               a.    Within landscape planter islands and peninsulas.
                     i.     One shade tree and four shrubs for each fifteen-foot planter,
                     ii.    Two shade trees and eight shrubs per thirty-foot planter,
                     iii.    Three additional shrubs where lighting standards are located in the planter.



                                                                                                      Page 260
               b.    Within landscape planter medians.
                     i.   Two shade trees and eight shrubs for every thirty linear feet, together with three
                           additional shrubs for each lighting standard.
     2.   Minimum Size Requirements at Planting.
          a.   Trees. Trees required for installation within interior parking areas shall be no less than two-
               inch caliper in size at planting.
          b.   Shrubs. No less what is customarily accommodated within a five gallon size container, in
               accordance with industry standards.
          c.   Groundcovers. No less than what is customarily accommodated within a one gallon size
               container in accordance with industry standards.
     3.   Tree and Shrub Distribution.
          a.   Within landscape planter islands and peninsulas.
               i.    In order to minimize damage by vehicles, trees shall not be planted closer than three
                      feet to top back of curb or exterior edge of depressed parking lot landscaped planters.
               ii.   Shrubs shall be situated such that they remain within the confines of the planter at
                     maturity.
          b.   Within landscape planter medians.
               i.    Trees shall be planted such that they are dispersed from end to end of the planter at
                      twenty-five to thirty-foot intervals (flexibility in actual placement is permitted).
               ii.   Shrubs shall be planted such that they assume as natural appearance as possible
                     (flexibility in actual placement is permitted) yet remain within the confines of the
                     planter at maturity.
     4.   Diversity of Plants. A mix of coniferous and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be provided in
          parking lot landscapes. Not less than forty percent of all trees and shrubs shall be coniferous
          except as warranted by site conditions.
C.    Mulch Required. Organic mulch shall be spread to a minimum depth of three inches and rock to at
     least two and one-half inches in depth in all parking lot landscaped planters. Appropriate measures
     shall be taken to retain the mulch within the planter and to renew it as necessary. Bare dirt is
     prohibited.
D.    Irrigation. Landscape planters within parking areas shall be irrigated with drip emitter or bubbler type
     irrigation systems only.
E.    Wheel Stops. Where vehicular parking stalls abut interior parking area landscaping that is not
     situated within and protected by a landscape planter, wheel stops shall be installed at a minimum of
     two feet from the edge of that landscape area.




19.77.070 - Screening of service and mechanical equipment.

A.   Screening Required. Service areas and on-grade mechanical equipment shall be screened from
     public view by plants, solid opaque fencing, berms, or a combination thereof. These elements shall
     also be sited to minimize their visibility and impact or enclosed so as to appear to be an integral part
     of the architectural design of the building. Site elements that are subject to this provision include but
     are not limited to the following:
     1.   Air conditioning units;
     2.   Electrical transformers;


                                                                                                    Page 261
     3.    Loading areas and docks;
     4.    Mechanical equipment;
     5.    Outdoor storage areas;
     6.    Public utility transformers;
     7.    Service yards;
     8.    Telephone transformers;
     9.    Trash collection areas;
     10.    Trash dumpsters.




19.77.080 - Functional and aesthetic enhancements.

A.   Pedestrian and Vehicular Pathways. The design of pedestrian and vehicular travel ways for multiple-
     family, residential, retail commercial, office, public and quasi-public, and mixed use developments
     shall incorporate plantings and related landscape improvements for separation of pedestrian and
     vehicular traffic movements, improved pedestrian convenience and safety, and better-defined
     vehicular circulation and parking.
B.    Building Entrances, Drop-off and Pick-up, and Outdoor Dining Areas. Plantings and related
     landscape improvements shall be incorporated into the design of building entrances, drop-off and
     pick-up, and outdoor dining areas in order to: separate these areas from on-site vehicular circulation
     and parking facilities and from off-site traffic; enhance pedestrian comfort, convenience and safety;
     and facilitate outdoor dining with maximum insulation from vehicular traffic impacts.
C.    Drive-Through Service Facilities and Automatic Car Washes. Plantings and related landscape
     improvements shall be provided in conjunction with drive-through service facilities and automatic car
     washes in order to: introduce a more aesthetically pleasing approach to these types of vehicular
     activities on newly developed or redeveloped sites; better integrate these types of land uses into the
     established character of surrounding area improvements; and screen queued vehicles from the view
     of passing motorists on adjacent roadways.




19.77.090 - Landscaping of detention/retention basins and ponds.

     A planting area and related landscape improvements shall be incorporated into the design of all
lands to be used as detention/retention basins and ponds. Such landscaping may include shade and
ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, turf, groundcover and other plant materials and related
landscape improvements.




19.77.100 - Landscape plan submittal requirements.

A.   General Provisions.
     1.    All applications for site development plan approval for land uses subject to this chapter shall be
           accompanied by a landscape plan package and water allowance worksheet prepared in
           accordance with the requirements of this chapter.




                                                                                                   Page 262
     2.   Submitted landscape plan packages shall be prepared and certified for compliance with all
          requirements of this chapter by a landscape architect licensed to practice in the state of Utah
          under Title 58 of Utah Code. A landscape designer certified by the Utah Nursery and
          Landscape Association may submit a landscape plan package if the certified designer is
          employed by the contractor installing plantings of the specific project submitted.
     3.   All submitted irrigation plans shall be prepared by a qualified professional who is licensed under
          Utah Code Title 58 or by a person who is exempt from professional licensure requirements for
          the scope of work performed.
B.   Landscape Plan Package Contents. The information to be provided with the landscape plan package
     shall be presented in the following format:
     1.   Conceptual Planting Plan. The intent of the conceptual planting plan is to illustrate the overall
          design concept for landscaping and depict how it relates to the proposed development of the
          site. The conceptual planting plan shall describe the general landscape design intent and the
          water conservation concept statement of the proposed landscape improvements. At a minimum,
          the conceptual planting plan shall include the information as set forth in the following tables
          codified in this chapter.
     2.   Preliminary Plan. The intent of the preliminary plan is to illustrate the master landscape plan for
          the development. The landscape preliminary plan shall state how the proposal is consistent with
          the purposes and intent of these regulations as set forth at the beginning of this chapter. At a
          minimum, the preliminary landscape plan shall include the information set forth in the following
          tables codified in this chapter.
     3.   Final Plan. The intent of the final plan is to ensure each phase of the final landscape plan is
          consistent with the master landscape plan for the development and to illustrate the specific
          landscaping details for each phase. The final landscape plan shall describe the design intention
          and shall state how the proposal is consistent with this section, and/or with the preliminary
          landscape plan, if one was required. The final landscape plan shall be on a separate page from
          the final site development plan. The scale shall not be greater than one inch equals to fifty feet.
          At a minimum, the final landscape shall include the information set forth in the following tables.
     4.   Project Data.

PROJECT DATA SHEET

                             Information Required                                 Sketch Preliminary Final

The project title and county site development plan application number (the file
number assigned to the development proposal that the landscape plan is               X         X         X
associated with)

Preparation date and issue/revision/date table                                       X         X         X

The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-mail of the applicant or
                                                                                     X         X         X
authorized agent

The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-mail of the landscape
architect, landscape designer, or other qualified professional who prepared the
                                                                                     X         X         X
landscape plan, together with their professional registration stamp (as
required)




                                                                                                   Page 263
The landscape contractor to be used on the project, if known at the time of
                                                                                   X         X        X
application

Site vicinity and location map, including the street address and tax
                                                                                   X         X        X
identification number of the property

Sheet index                                                                        X         X        X

General landscape design intent statement including the general character
and location of proposed landscaping and open area and how it meets the            X         X        X
intent of these regulations

Annual water budget worksheet                                                      X         X        X

Soils analysis and proposed soils amendments                                                 X        X

Signature block for landscape package approval                                                        X




     5.   Grading and Drainage Plan.

GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN SHEET

Information Required                                                             Sketch Preliminary Final

Scale, north arrow, site boundary including adjacent property lines and street
                                                                                   X         X        X
names

Existing and proposed adjacent uses                                                X         X        X

Existing and proposed private driveways, off-street parking areas, patios,
                                                                                   X         X        X
walkways, service areas and other paved surfaces

Existing and proposed buildings and structures (general locations)                 X         X        X

Existing and proposed utilities and easements                                                X        X

Limits of proposed site disturbance                                                          X        X

Existing and proposed building and structure finish floor elevations                                  X


Spot elevations and contour lines at no more than one foot intervals to                      X        X




                                                                                                 Page 264
determine high points and low points, positive drainage of paved surfaces,
wall heights and other vertical control

Existing landscaping, including location, type and size                                X         X        X

Any existing landscaping proposed to be removed                                        X         X        X




     6.   Landscape Planting Plan.

LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN SHEET

                              Information Required                                   Sketch Preliminary Final

Base plan consisting in information included on the grading and drainage plan          X         X        X

Limits of proposed site disturbance                                                    X         X        X

General landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly drawn to
indicate location and general plant category (deciduous tree, evergreen tree,          X         X        X
deciduous shrub, evergreen shrub, groundcover, etc.)

Legend of plant category symbols keyed to general plant material schedule
indicating quantities of each plant category and listing of plant species (include               X        X
Latin name) included in each category

Typical detail drawings at one inch equals to twenty feet to illustrate perimeter
treatment, buffering, typical front yard, and any special treatment areas on the                 X        X
site

All hydrozone boundaries and total area within each hydrozone with each
                                                                                                 X        X
hydrozone clearly labeled high, moderate, low or very low

Detailed landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly drawn to
indicate each plant (deciduous tree, evergreen tree, deciduous shrub,                            X        X
evergreen shrub, groundcover, etc.)

Detailed plant material schedule with abbreviation identification key, quantity
of each plant, botanical name, common name, hydrozone rating (high,                              X        X
moderate, low or very low), plant/container size, spacing and notes

Define areas to be considered open areas and if they will be public or private.                  X        X
Indicate how open areas will be maintained including; erosion control, re-



                                                                                                     Page 265
vegetation, and weed management both during and after construction

Plant installation, mulching, tree staking, and any other applicable planting and
                                                                                                  X         X
installation details

Soil preparation details including instructions to scarify planting pit bottom and
sides and surface ground planes to promote root penetration in compacted                          X         X
soils

Protection of existing plant and other site features to remain. Clearly identify
the locations, species, size and condition of all significant trees, each labeled      X          X         X
as to its intended retention, relocation or removal




     7.   Soils Report. A soils report is required in all cases. Special procedures or requirements shall be
          incorporated in the preparation and recommendations of the soils report where the past use of a
          site has resulted in soil contamination or where difficult soil or landscaping conditions are known
          to exist. The soils report shall describe:
          a.   The depth, composition, fertility, bulk density, and landscaping suitability of the top soil and
               subsoil at the site;
          b.   Soil class;
          c.   An approximate soil infiltration rate for site soils, either measured or derived from soil
               texture/infiltration rate tables. A range of infiltration rates shall be noted where appropriate;
          d.   A measure of pH, electroconductivity (ERC), salt absorption ratio (SAR) and organic
               matter;
          e.   Recommendations for retention and re-use of viable top soil on the site together with such
               soil amendments as are necessary to ensure the health and sustainability of the
               landscaping to be planted.
          The final recommendations of the soils report shall be incorporated into the landscape planting
     plan and implemented with site planting operations.
     8.   Irrigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the landscape
          planting plan and shall reflect the requirements set forth in Section 19.77.030(E)(2) of this
          chapter.
     9.    Irrigation Schedule. The irrigation schedule required in Section 19.74.030(E)(2)(k) of this
          chapter shall be provided in tabular form and shall specify:
          a.   Plant type (e.g., turf, trees, low water use plants);
          b.   Irrigation type (e.g., sprinklers, drip, bubblers);
          c.   Flow rate in gallons per minute;
          d.   Precipitation rate in inches per hour (sprinklers only);
          e.   Run times in minutes per day;
          f.   Number of water days per week;
          g.   Cycle time to avoid runoff.



                                                                                                      Page 266
19.77.110 - Landscape plan package acceptance.

A.    Standard Compliance Procedures. Submitted landscape plan documentation packages, water
     allowance worksheets, irrigation plans and irrigation schedules prepared in strict compliance with the
     requirements of this chapter shall be accepted upon certification of compliance with those
     requirements by the qualified professionals who prepared and submitted those plans. Final approval
     shall be as granted by the director upon completion of an internal or external review to assure
     ordinance compliance.
B.   Alternative Compliance Procedures. As authorized by this chapter, an alternative landscape and tree
     protection plan may be substituted in whole or in part for a landscape plan prepared in strict
     compliance with the chapters requirements.
     1.   Alternative Plan Preparation and Submittal. Alternative landscape plans shall be prepared and
          submitted in accordance with submittal requirements for a landscape plan package. The
          submittal shall clearly identify and discuss the modifications and alternatives proposed and the
          ways in which the plan will better accomplish the purposes and intent of this chapter than would
          a plan which strictly complies with the chapter's specified standards.
     2.   Alternative Plan Review Criteria. Certification of alternative plans for compliance with the
          purposes and intent of this chapter requires that the qualified professional who prepared the
          plans substantiate in writing how the alternative proposal meets or exceeds the degree of
          compliance that would be achieved through the strict application of specified standards. In
          making such assertions the qualified professional who prepared the plans shall clearly
          demonstrate how the alternative plans will:
          a.   Provide exceptional preservation and incorporation of existing site vegetation;
          b.   Provide significant protection of natural areas and features;
          c.   Provide for maximum retention of existing tree canopy cover;
          d.   Create exceptional enhancement of neighborhood continuity and connectivity;
          e.   Provide for extensive accommodation of nonvehicular access and use;
          f.   Represent greater innovation in site design and plant use.
     3.   Alternative Plan Approval. Final approval shall be as granted by the director upon completion of
          an internal or external review to assure satisfaction of the above criteria.
C.   Plan Approval and Distribution. Copies of the professionally certified landscape plan package shall
     be provided for distribution to the following:
          a.   One copy to the property owner or site manager;
          b.   Two copies to the chief building official for attachment to approved building plans and use
               in completion of site inspections;
          c.   One copy to the director for retention in the site development application file.
D.    Plan Revisions. Any revisions to the landscape plan package shall be reviewed and approved in
     writing by the director prior to commencement of construction. Re-certification of compliance with the
     requirements of this chapter shall be provided by the qualified professionals who prepared and
     submitted the plan revisions. Site development plans that are substantially revised may require
     commensurate revisions to associated landscape plans.
E.   Phasing. Landscape plans for projects proposed for development in multiple phases shall clearly
     specify the landscape improvements required in conjunction with each phase.




                                                                                                  Page 267
19.77.120 - Installation of landscape improvements.

A.   Irrigation System Installation.
     1.   Installer Qualifications. Irrigation Association (IA) certification shall be required for all contractor-
          installed landscape irrigation systems except where construction observation services are
          provided by a licensed landscape architect or other qualified professional under Title 58 of Utah
          Code.
     2.   License, Insurance and Bonding Requirements. All installers, designers, and auditors shall meet
          state and local license, insurance, and bonding requirements and be able to show proof of such.
B.   Plant Delivery and Installation.
     1.   Plants shall be protected during delivery to prevent leaf desiccation.
     2.   Upon delivery, unplanted trees, shrubs and other live plants shall be kept in shade, well
          protected with soil, mulch or other acceptable material and appropriately watered. Plants that
          have died or show signs of serious deterioration prior to planting shall be replaced.
     3.   All trees and shrubs shall be planted in such a manner as to ensure their survival. This shall
          include the planting of intact balls, planting at proper depth, properly backfilling, mulching and
          watering, and construction of a planting saucer. Newly planted trees shall be provided a plant-
          free mulched area with a minimum radius of four feet around the trunks in order to expedite tree
          root establishment.
     4.   Any rope or wire binding the ball shall be cut prior to the conclusion of backfilling operations to
          prevent girdling of the tree trunk.
     5.   If a nonbiodegradable material is used around the ball, it shall be completely removed prior to
          backfilling.
     6.    In order to protect plantings from traffic, de-icing salts, and snow plowing operations,
          landscaped areas with tree or shrub plantings within six feet of a paved vehicle parking area or
          access way shall be raised above such areas by use of curbing or edging or, where depressed
          for stormwater collection and aquifer recharge, clearly posted for protection during periods of
          inclement weather.
C.    Excavation. Site excavation shall be accomplished in accordance with industry standards and
     applicable ordinance requirements.




19.77.130 - Construction inspection and compliance requirements.

A.   Construction Observation and Certification of Compliance. Construction observation and monitoring
     of all required landscape improvements shall be provided by a licensed landscape architect so as to
     ensure compliance with the approved landscape plans for the site.
B.   Right to Inspect. The director reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time and to require
     corrective measures regarding the installation of site landscaping and irrigation system
     improvements found not to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
C.   The director shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project approval.




19.77.140 - Post-construction verification of compliance.




                                                                                                        Page 268
A.    Single-Phase Projects. Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy a
     landscape architect or other qualified professional shall complete a site inspection of all installed site
     landscaping improvements and provide written certification of compliance with approved plans. The
     director shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project approval. Certification of
     compliance with approved irrigation plans shall be provided by the licensed professional under
     whose construction observation the irrigation system was installed.
B.   Multi-Phase Projects. Projects approved for development in multiple phases shall be inspected and
     certified to be in compliance with the approved plans for each respective phase prior to the
     occupancy or use of the development associated with that phase. Permits shall not be issued for
     subsequent phases without prior director approval until this requirement has been satisfied.




19.77.150 - Certificate of substantial completion.

      Upon completion of all required landscaping improvements the property owner shall complete a
certificate of substantial completion for submittal to the director. A disclosure document shall be filed with
the county recorder's office clearly indicating that the property is subject to the requirements of this
chapter and that any re-landscaping by the present or future property owners shall be in accordance with
the certified landscape plan for the property. Proof of recordation shall be provided prior to final land use
approval.




19.77.160 - Long-term viability of established landscapes.

A.    Plant Maintenance. The owner, tenant and any agent shall be jointly and severally responsible for
     the maintenance of all landscaping in good condition and free from refuse and debris so as to
     present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. Where applicable an adequately funded
     Homeowner's or Property Owner's Association shall assume and be held liable for such
     responsibilities. In the latter instance, provisions for long-term maintenance of required landscaping
     in the event of dissolution of the Homeowner's or Property Owner's Association shall be provided
     prior to landscape plan acceptance.
B.   Plant Survival. All plant materials shall be regularly maintained in a healthy condition and shall be
     guaranteed for survival for two years from planting. During this period, each plant shall show at least
     seventy-five percent healthy growth and shall have the natural characteristic of the plant of its
     species. Any plant found dead or unsatisfactory by the director during the guarantee period shall be
     replaced until it has lived through the required two-year survival period.




19.77.170 - Completion of and submittal of water performance audit.

      Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy, a water audit shall be
conducted by an IA certified landscape irrigation auditor. Irrigation system improvements required to
achieve compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be provided by the property owner as
necessary. The water performance audit will verify that the irrigation system complies with the minimum
standards of this chapter. The minimum efficiency required for the irrigation system is sixty percent for the
distribution efficiency for all fixed spray systems and seventy percent distribution efficiency for all rotor
systems. Copies of the auditor's certification of compliance shall be provided to the director for retention
in the project file as well as to the irrigation system designer, installer, and owner/developer of the
property. Compliance with this provision is required before the countywill issue a letter of final
acceptance.



                                                                                                     Page 269
19.77.180 - Definitions.

     For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings herein prescribed:
     "Annual water budget" means the target maximum amount of irrigation water applied to a
landscaped area measured in gallons per square foot per year.
      "Automatic controller" means a timer, capable of operating valve stations to set the days and length
of time of a water application.
     "Backflow" means any unwanted flow of used or nonpotable water or substance from any domestic,
industrial or institutional piping system into the pure, potable water distribution system. The direction of
flow under these conditions is in the reverse direction from that intended by the system and normally
assumed by the owner of the system.
      "Backflow prevention device" means a safety device that prevents the flow of water from the water
distribution system back to the water source. Compliance with applicable health and water quality
regulations is required.
     "Bubbler" means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by "flooding" the planted
area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short stream pattern.
   "Drip emitter" means a drip irrigation fitting that delivers water slowly at the root zone of the plant,
measured in gallons per hour.
     "Drought-tolerant plant" means a plant that can survive without irrigation throughout the year once
established, although supplemental water may be desirable during drought periods for improved
appearance and disease resistance.
     "Establishment period" means the first three hundred sixty-five days of growing season after
installing the plant in the landscape.
      "Evaporation [E]" means water movement from a wet soil or plant surface that does not pass through
the plant. Evaporation is the physical process by which a liquid is transformed to the gaseous state, which
in irrigation generally is restricted to the change of water from liquid to vapor. Occurs from plant leaf
surface, ground surface, water surface and sprinkler spray.
     "Evapotranspiration [ET]" means the quantity of water evaporated from adjacent soil surfaces and
transpired by plants during a specific time, expressed in inches per day, month or year.
     "FPS" means feet per second.
     "Flow rate" means the rate at which water flows through pipes and valves (gallons per minute or
cubic feet per second).
    "Grading plan" means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations as necessary and existing
and new contours with the developed landscaped area.
     "Groundcover" means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the ground
that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve inches.
      "Hardscape" means elements of the landscape such as sidewalks, pathways, benches, patios,
decks, seating areas, drives, and areas for vehicular parking typically constructed from nonliving materials
like concrete, boulders, brick, blacktop and lumber.
      "Hydrozone" means the grouping of plants with similar water requirements so that they can be
irrigated with a common zone.
     "Infiltration rate" means the rate of water entry into the soil expressed as a depth of water per unit of
time (inches per hour).




                                                                                                    Page 270
     "Irrigated landscaped area" means all portions of a development site to be improved with planting
and irrigation. Natural open space areas shall not be included in the irrigated landscaped area.
     "Irrigation contractor" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association (IA) to
install irrigation systems.
    "Irrigation designer" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association (IA) to
prepare irrigation system designs, and/or a landscape architect.
     "Irrigation plan" means a plan that shows the components of the irrigation system with water meter
size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each irrigation circuit,
together with identification of all irrigation equipment.
     "Landscape architect" means a person who is licensed to practice landscape architecture by the
state of Utah.
    "Landscape designer" means a person who has been certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape
Association (UNLA) and who prepares landscape plans as authorized by Utah Code.
    "Landscape irrigation auditor" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association to
conduct a landscape irrigation audit.
      "Landscape plan documentation package" means an assemblage of graphics and written materials
including criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural features
such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. The landscape plan documentation package shall include a project data sheet,
a planting plan, an irrigation plan, a grading plan, a soils report, a landscape water allowance, and an
irrigation schedule.
     "Landscape water allowance" means, for design purposes, the upper limit of annual applied water for
the established landscaped area. It is based upon the local reference evapotranspiration rate, the ET0
adjustment factor and the size of the landscaped area.
     "Landscape zone" means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs,
areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil conditions, and areas that will be
similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a set of valves with the
same schedule.
     "Landscaped area" means an entire parcel of real property minus that area encompassed by building
footprints, driveways, and the nonirrigated portions of parking lots. Water features and areas improved
with walkways, benches, seating areas and similar improvements are included in the calculation of the
landscaped area.
      "Landscaping" means any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers,
flowers, or grass; natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural features, including but
not limited to, walks, drives, benches, seating areas, fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor art work, screen
walls and fences.
    "Maximum extent feasible" means no prudent, practical, and feasible alternative exists, and all
possible planning to minimize potential harm has been undertaken. Economic considerations may be
taken into account but shall not be the overriding factor in determining maximum extent feasible.
    "Mulch" means any organic material such as leaves, bark, wood chips, straw, or inorganic material
such as crushed stone or gravel, or other materials left loose and applied to the soil surface for the
beneficial purpose of weed suppression and the conservation of soil moisture.
     "Pervious surface" means a layer through which water and air may freely migrate.
    "Planting plan" means a plan that clearly and accurately identifies the location and species of new
and existing trees, shrubs, groundcovers, and other plants on a site.
     "Precipitation rate" means the depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in inches per
hour.



                                                                                                     Page 271
     "Rain shut-off device" means a device wired to the automatic controller that shuts off the irrigation
system when it rains.
     "Reference evapotranspiration rate or ET0" means the rate of evapotranspiration from an extensive
surface cooling season green grass cover of uniform height of twelve cm., actively growing, completely
shading the ground, and not short of water.
     "Runoff" means irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is
applied and which flows onto other areas.
       "Soils report" means a report by a soils laboratory indicating soil type(s), composition, bulk density,
infiltration rates, pH, electroconductivity (ERC), salt absorption ratio (SAR) and organic matter for the top
soil and subsoil of a given site. The soils report also includes recommendations for soil amendments.
     "Spray sprinkler" means an irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
     "Station" means an area served by one valve.
     "Stream sprinkler" means an irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single or
multiple streams.
     "Street tree" means a shade or ornamental tree planted along public or private streets and drives to
provide shade to reduce heating of pavements, provide spatial definition and visual enhancement.
     "Supervision (of an employee)" means that a qualified licensed professional is responsible for and
personally reviews, corrects when necessary, and approves work performed by any employee under the
direction of the licensed professional.
     "Turf" means a surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.
     "Valve" means a device used to control the flow of water in an irrigation system.
      "Water audit" means an on-site survey and measurement of irrigation equipment and management
efficiency, and the generation of recommendations to improve efficiency.
     "Water-conserving plant" means a plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during spring and summer
months.
     "Zone" means a landscape zone.




CHAPTER 19.78 - PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS




19.78.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of a planned unit development (PUD) is:
     1.   To provide a high quality living environment, and to utilize and incorporate natural features in
          the land development design.
     2.   To provide a more efficient use of the land and the preservation of greater proportions of open
          space for recreation and visual use than is otherwise provided for in the zoning regulations.
     3.   To provide good and compatible neighborhood and housing design by utilizing a variety of
          dwelling types and site arrangement plans to allow for greater flexibility and diversity in the
          physical pattern of the development.




                                                                                                    Page 272
    4.    To provide developments compatible with existing residential uses while maintaining a
         harmonious environment within the community.
    5.   To create mixed use areas designed to be beneficial to the neighborhood.
    6.   To ensure substantial compliance with the intent of this chapter related to the public health,
         safety and general welfare, while securing the efficient use of the land for residential, or a
         combination of commercial and residential development.
    It is the intent of this chapter that the development plan for a planned unit development shall be
prepared by a designer(s) having professional competence in urban planning.




19.78.020 - Applicability and area requirements.

     A planned unit development is a conditional use that is only allowed for residential uses, except as
provided in Section 19.78.040, and in zones that allow residential uses. The provisions in this chapter
shall govern over the chapters relating to these other zones and other chapters in this title, with the
exception of the FCOZ ordinance, Chapters 19.72 and 19.73, and the RCOZ ordinance, Chapter 19.71. A
planned unit development in these zones shall have a minimum area of three acres, with the following
exceptions:
    1.   Existing condominium developments that cannot be sold or refinanced without the common
         area adjoining the homes in the development being divided up into individual lots that include
         the adjoining homes, and where these newly created lots would not qualify as traditional
         subdivision lots under countymetro township ordinance. In such cases, the newly created lots
         may qualify as a planned unit development if the development is at least one acre in size. Such
         a development shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, except Sections 19.78.090—
         19.78.130 relating to review of the development.
    2.   Developments abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan shall have a
         minimum area of one acre. To qualify as a development that is abutting or contiguous to a
         corridor, said development shall have a minimum frontage of the sum of the required minimum
         lot width of two lots as determined by the current zoning designation.




19.78.030 - Development requirements.

    The following are required for all developments:
    1.   Ownership. The property shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time of application, or
         the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of the property.
    2.   Open Space. Common and private open space shall be provided and shall cover no less than
         forty percent of the gross site area. Common open space shall be provided in the amount of at
         least twenty percent of the gross site area. For purposes of this chapter, gross site area is
         defined as the total area of a planned unit development excluding anything in the public right-of-
         way.
     The required common open space shall be land areas that are not occupied by buildings, dwellings,
structures, parking areas, streets, public park strips, curb-gutter-sidewalk, driveways, or alleys and shall
be accessible by all residents of the development. Buildings erected for the purpose of providing an
amenity may be included as open space. Said open space may be an area of land or water set aside, or
reserved for use by residents of the development, including an expanse of lawn, trees, plants, fully
accessible landscaped roof areas, or other natural areas. Common open space also includes common
walkways (but not curb-gutter-sidewalk), formal picnic areas, and recreational areas. Common open



                                                                                                  Page 273
space may be distributed throughout the development and need not be in a single large area. Common
open space may include sensitive areas, such as areas with thirty percent or greater slope, fault zones,
flood plains, high water tables, and wetlands, if they have been designed as an integral element of the
project.
     Private open space is that space which is provided for each dwelling unit for personal use. Private
open space is typically located immediately adjacent to or attached to the dwelling unit it is designed to
serve and is for the exclusive use of the residents of the dwelling unit. Landscaped roof areas, balconies,
or decks attached to individual units are considered private open space and are not to be calculated as
part of required common open space.
    The planning commission may reduce the open space requirements of this section in order to
accommodate a density bonus provided for in this chapter.
    3.    Interior Streets. The design of public and private streets within a development shall follow
         countymetro township standards for roadway development as defined by the countymetro
         township transportation engineer. Private streets shall be subject to the same inspections and
         construction standards as required for public streets. The countymetro township shall be
         granted a utility easement of the entire interior street system in a development project. All
         private streets shall be conveyed to a private association.
    4.   Garbage and Recycling. The development shall be designed to accommodate and efficiently
         manage the collection, storage, and removal of garbage in harmony with the neighborhood so
         as to minimize detrimental effects of the collection, storage, and removal on any residence
         within the development or abutting neighborhoods. If dumpster enclosures are provided for the
         development, no refuse dumpster or dumpster enclosure structure shall be located closer than
         ten feet to any perimeter property line. Enclosure structures must have a minimum of three
         sides that reflect or emulate the materials, design, and quality of the overall development. All
         developments shall provide recycling services.
    5.   Parking. The following minimum parking shall be provided for all multi-family projects under this
         chapter:
         a.   Table of Parking Ratios.

One bedroom unit                                               1.5 parking spaces per unit

Two or more bedroom units                                      2.0 parking spaces per unit

Guest parking spaces                                           0.33 parking spaces per unit (min. of 6)

Storage parking spaces for recreational vehicle storage        Not Allowed




         b.   The parking requirements identified in this section supersede other parking requirements in
              this title.
         c.   All parking areas, covered or open, except garages, shall have a landscaped buffer in
              accordance with Chapter 19.77, Water Efficient Landscape Design and Development
              Standards.
         d.   Developments offering the amenities listed below are entitled to the applicable parking
              reductions. These reductions are not mandatory, but if they are chosen, are cumulative.
              The planning commission may further modify the required parking with support of a traffic
              study.



                                                                                                 Page 274
Eligible Unit Parking Reductions

                                                                                                Reduction
                                       Amenity
                                                                                               (stalls/unit)

                                                                                         0.05 per car share
Car Sharing (minimum 100 dwelling units)
                                                                                               vehicle

Bicycle Lockers/Storage (1 space per unit required)                                               0.05

Bicycle Share (on-site self-serve bike station)                                                   0.05

Development-supplied transit passes for all residents                                             0.15

Proximity of development within ¼ mile of a rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station               0.20

Proximity of development within ½ mile of a rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station               0.10

Senior Housing                                                                                    0.20

Housing for students (< .25 miles from campus)                                                    0.10

For Mixed-Use PUDs (19.78.040), shared parking that allows both customers and
                                                                                                  0.20
residents to park in the same spaces.




          e.   Parking is prohibited within approved fire access and turn-around facilities.
          f.   Garages are encouraged.
               (1)    Garage parking, if used, shall have a minimum unobstructed size of twenty-two feet
                     wide by twenty feet in length, or twenty feet wide by twenty-two feet in length. Single-
                     car garages are also permitted and shall have a minimum unobstructed size of ten
                     feet wide by twenty-two feet in length, or eleven feet wide by twenty feet in length.
               (2)    Covered parking, if used, shall be placed in locations adjacent or convenient to the
                     buildings that they are intended to serve.
               (3)    Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty feet long
                     by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two contiguous spaces per
                     unit.
               (4)    Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty feet long
                     by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two contiguous spaces per
                     unit.
          g.   Underground parking. Installation of underground parking adequate to meet fifty percent of
               the parking requirements of this section excluding guest parking, shall receive a twenty
               percent density bonus for the planned unit development.



                                                                                                      Page 275
6.      Building Materials. Exterior materials of a durable or resilient nature such as brick, stone,
       stucco, prefinished panel, composite materials, or other materials of similar quality, hardiness,
       and low maintenance characteristics shall be used. No single material is allowed to exceed fifty
       percent on street-facing facades. Other materials may be considered for soffits, or as an accent
       or architectural feature. Twenty-five year guarantee, architectural shingles and/or other longer
       lasting roof materials are required.
7.      Landscaping on Public Right-of-Way. With the exception of Forestry Zones, where a
       development is adjacent to a public right-of-way, a permanent open space shall be required
       along any front, side, or rear yard adjacent to said right-of-way. This area shall be kept free of
       buildings and structures (except fences, as per Chapter 19.77.050, and approved by the
       planning commission), and permanently maintained with street trees and other landscaping,
       screened or protected by natural features, as per Chapter 19.77. If such areas are the result of
       double frontage lot designs with inadequate access to the street, such areas shall be
       landscaped as per Chapter 19.77 with a five-foot landscaped area. Aesthetic entrance features
       are encouraged. Additional landscape treatments or buffers may also be required with width
       and landscaping specifications as per Chapter 19.77.
8.     Perimeter Fencing. With the exception of Forestry Zones, fencing around the perimeter of all
       developments shall be provided. Acceptable fencing materials include architecturally designed
       brick, stone, or block, or pre-cast concrete. Fencing with materials using composite products,
       wrought iron, wood, or vinyl may be allowed with a minimum two-foot wide, six-foot tall brick or
       stone pillar spaced every ten feet on center. Unless otherwise allowed by the planning
       commission, exterior fencing along a public right-of-way shall be limited to brick, stone, or block,
       or pre-cast concrete and be setback a minimum of five feet from the property line to allow for a
       landscaping buffer designed in accordance with Chapter 19.77 to soften long expanses of walls.
       Interior fencing shall comply with Section 19.78.030(11)(f).
9.     Interior Street Lights. With the exception of Forestry Zones, street and pedestrian lighting for
       streets on the interior of the PUD is required. All lighting fixtures shall be directed downward
       with mechanisms to prevent dark sky illumination. The applicant shall submit a plan which
       indicates the type and location of lights in relation to the development and designed for
       pedestrian safety. Minimum average foot-candles for local residential roads (thirty-five feet
       maximum) shall be 0.3, and shall be 0.5 for residential collector roads (thirty-six feet—forty-five
       feet).
108.      Signage. Only low profile signs with a maximum size of fifty square feet, and five feet in
       height are allowed. No temporary signs are allowed other than for sale or rent signs with a
       maximum of six square feet in area per side. Only three such signs are allowed per three
       hundred feet of frontage. The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the intensity
       and direction of any associated lighting shall be detailed in the application, and, except as
       provided in this chapter, shall be consistent with the characteristics of the community and
       Chapter 19.82, Signs.
119.      Site Plan. All developments shall be guided by a total design plan in which the following
       development standards may be varied to allow density bonuses, and flexibility and creativity in
       site design and building location. The planning commission may require such arrangements of
       structures, open spaces, landscaping, buffering, and access within the site development plan so
       that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected. The following criteria shall be used by the
       planning commission principally to assure the design objectives of this section are met.
       a.   Density. Subject to the following density bonuses, the density allowed for a development
            shall be no greater than that allowed in the zone in which it is located. Density shall be
            calculated using only net developable acreage. A density bonus in the following amounts is
            allowed if either or both of the following conditions exist:
            (1)    For developments with underground parking that is adequate to meet the parking
                  requirements of this chapter excluding guest parking, a density bonus of twenty
                  percent is allowed pursuant to 19.78.030(5)(g); and/or


                                                                                                 Page 276
     (2)    For developments within one-quarter mile (improved walking distance) of a rail or Bus
           Rapid Transit (BRT) station, a density bonus of twenty percent is allowed. For
           developments within one-half mile (improved walking distance) of a rail or BRT
           station, but greater than one-quarter mile, a density bonus of ten percent is allowed.
b.   Maximum Height. For the purpose of this chapter, building height is to be measured from
     the lowest point of original grade to the highest ridge.
     (1)    For any PUD adjacent to an R-1, R-2, R-4, A-1, or A-2 zone ("residential zone"), the
           maximum height for structures on the perimeter of the PUD adjoining said zones shall
           be twenty-eight feet. The maximum height of all other structures in such a PUD shall
           be thirty-five feet. PUDs with one building only, are allowed a rooftop garden or patio
           provided the rooftop garden or patio has a minimum setback of seventy-five feet from
           the property line. For purposes of this chapter, a structure on the perimeter is defined
           as any structure within fifty feet of the property line of the PUD.
           (a)     The height of buildings along the perimeter of a planned unit development
                 adjoining a residential zone may be increased to the maximum height allowed in
                 the underlying zone by one foot increments, with each additional one foot height
                 increment requiring an additional one foot in setback from the perimeter (see
                 figure 1 below for graphical rendering).
     (2)    The height of structures in all other planned unit developments shall conform to the
           otherwise applicable ordinances.
     (3)     At the discretion of the planning commission, height for dwelling structures along
           corridors as defined in the general plan and not adjoining a residential zone, may be
           increased by an additional five feet to accommodate a density bonus provided for in
           this chapter.
     (4)    Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission may at its discretion reduce or
           increase the otherwise stated maximum heights if mitigation is warranted, but only in
           cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions or circumstances
           exist, such as the height of surrounding buildings.




                                                                                         Page 277
Figure 1. An illustration of height allowance as described in 11.b.1.a. above when approved by the
planning commission, where for every foot increase in height requires a foot increase in minimum
setback. This provision is designed to soften the impact to adjacent properties while allowing for
increases in height where appropriate.

         c.   Perimeter Setbacks. Buildings (including covered decks or covered patios, or decks or
              patios in excess of eighteen inches above existing grade) located on lots on the perimeter
              (excluding the public frontage defined in Chapter 19.78.040 of the development), shall
              have not less than a fifteen-foot setback from the perimeter lot line, and shall have a
              setback from a right-of-way as prescribed by the underlying zone and Chapter 19.77.
              Otherwise, no specific yard, setback, or lot size requirement is imposed by this chapter.
              However, the purpose and design objectives of this chapter must be complied with in the
              final development plan, and the planning commission may require specific setbacks within
              all or a portion of the development to maintain harmony with the existing character of the
              neighborhood.
         d.    Site Calculations. Specific calculations which address the percentage of open space,
              impervious versus pervious surfaces, and site improvements shall be submitted by the
              applicant with all project applications.
         e.   Traffic Circulation. Points of primary vehicular access to the development shall be designed
              to provide smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum hazards to
              vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle traffic. Adequate emergency vehicle access shall be
              provided. Internal circulation systems shall include pedestrian paths, and may include
              bicycle paths, preferably separated from vehicular traffic. Where recreational facilities exist
              or are planned adjacent to the proposed development, such pedestrian and bicycle paths
              shall connect to these facilities.
         f.   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and acoustical privacy for
              dwelling units. Fences, walks, barriers, landscaping, and sound reducing construction
              techniques shall be used as appropriate to enhance the privacy of its occupants, the
              screening of objectionable views or uses, and the reduction of noise.
         g.   Sidewalks. With the exception of forestry zones, as required elements of a development,
              interior sidewalks shall be installed to serve the units and connect to the public street.
         h.   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground, except as may be provided for in state
              law. Utility equipment shall be screened from view and preferably, not fronting on a public
              street.
         i.   Private outdoor spaces. Each residential unit shall be required to have an outdoor patio/rear
               yard space with a minimum of one hundred square feet, or a balcony with a fifty square
               foot minimum.
    1210.   Desirable Amenities. Amenities that are identified in the Salt LakeEmigration Canyon
        CountyMetro Township Recreation and Open Space Standards Policy shall be installed in
        accordance with that policy. Where conflicts exist with this chapter and the Salt LakeEmigration
        Canyon CountyMetro Township Recreation and Open Space Standards Policy, requirements
        identified in this chapter shall supersede.
    1311. Miscellaneous. Installation of xeriscaping is encouraged as an alternative to excessive lawn
        areas or other landscaping treatments that excessively consume water. Low impact/water
        retention development techniques are encouraged to manage stormwater onsite including but
        not limited to planter boxes, rain gardens, and bioswales in the open spaces.
      Parking areas, service areas, buffers, entrances, exits, yards, courts, landscaping, graphics, and
lighting for both residential and non-residential development shall be designed as integrated portions of
the total development and shall project the residential character.




                                                                                                   Page 278
19.78.040 - Planned unit development mixed-use.

     In a planned unit development, vertical mixed-use is allowed in zones that allow both residential and
commercial and/or office uses, provided it meets the following requirements, in addition to the other
requirements in this chapter. For purposes of this section, vertical mixed-use means commercial or office
uses sharing the same building as residential uses.
     1.   The property is abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan, or major or
          minor arterial ("street").
     2.   Commercial uses shall only be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on the street. Office
          uses shall only be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on the street.
          Entrances to the first floor of these buildings shall front on the street. Windows shall make up at
          least fifty percent of street-facing facades of these floors. These floors shall have architectural
          differentiation from the other floors in the building.
     3.   Parking is not allowed between the building(s) and the street.
     4.   The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet, except as provided in subsection (E), and the side
          and rear yards shall be twenty feet minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
     5.   The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of the
          building(s) must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the planning
          commission. A build-to-line is defined as the line at which construction of a building façade is to
          occur on a lot, running parallel to the front property line, and ensuring a uniform (or more or less
          even) building façade line on the street.
     6.   Landscaping along the street shall comply with this chapter and Chapter 19.77.
     7.   Signage for commercial or office uses shall be limited to signs on the building(s) that comply
          with Chapter 19.82.




19.78.050 - Maintenance of common facilities.

1.   A development shall be approved subject to the submission and recordation of legal instruments
     setting forth a plan or manner of permanent care and maintenance of all common open space and
     other facilities provided in the final development plan.
2.    Terms in the final development plan governing maintenance of common open space and other
     facilities shall comply with applicable provisions of the Utah Condominium Ownership Act, Title 57-8-
     101, et seq., or the Utah Community Association Act, Title 57-8a-101, et seq.




19.78.060 - Review process.

1.   Pre-Submittal Development Review. To help expedite review of a development proposal, prior to
     submitting a complete application for development, persons interested in undertaking development
     shall meet with a member(s) of the planning staff for a planner/applicant meeting, to become
     acquainted with the substantive and procedural requirements of this chapter.
2.   Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Staff creates, revises, and adheres to a development review
     standard operating procedure, to assist in the management and processing of applications.
     Applicants are encouraged to obtain a copy of the current SOP from planning and development
     services staff, and to seek guidance with respect to the review and understanding of the
     development review SOP from staff.




                                                                                                    Page 279
3.    Application. An application for a development must be submitted to planning and development
     services. As each development application is different and unique, application documents may vary
     with respect to content and need for specific reports and/or studies. Consultation with staff and
     examination of the development review SOP will guide the applicant through the review process and
     identify all submittal documents that will be required to formalize a complete application.
     a.    Site plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 19.78.030(11).
     b.    Landscaping plan. A landscape plan is to be prepared in accordance with Chapter 19.77 of this
           title. Staff can ask for justification of elements included in the landscape plan.
     c.     Architectural building elevations. The location and floor area of all existing and proposed
           buildings, structures, and other improvements including heights, types of dwelling units, non-
           residential structures including commercial facilities, preliminary elevations and architectural
           renderings of typical structures and improvements, shall be prepared by a licensed architect or
           other qualified professional.
     d.    Lighting plan.
     ed.    Subdivision plat.




19.78.070 - Preliminary review.

     When a complete application has been accepted by staff, reviews completed by staff and related
agencies, and subsequent comments identified by staff and substantially addressed by the applicant, the
application is scheduled for a community council meeting and a public hearing before the appropriate
planning commission for their review and decision. Additional adjustments, revisions, or re-submittals may
be required during this process to identify all concerns related to conformance with the intent of this
chapter. Failure to submit complete and consistent information will result in written notification to the
applicant that the review cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and requested information is
submitted.




19.78.080 - Planning commission review.

      When preliminary review of the application has been determined to be complete and in compliance
with all requirements, the plans and preliminary plat together with all supporting information will be
forwarded to the planning commission for review. If the property is to be subdivided, all requirements set
forth in Title 18, Subdivisions, must be met.
     In accordance with Chapter 19.05.040 and Utah Code § 17-27a10-9a-506, the planning commission
shall review the proposed development plan to hear and receive public input and to determine if all
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects have been substantially mitigated. The planning commission
may require additional studies or analyses to enable it to determine how impacts should be addressed
and may establish reasonable conditions of approval to address those anticipated impacts, as per
Chapter 19.84.060.




19.78.090 - Validity of preliminary review.

1.   Once the planning commission determines that preliminary review is complete, the preliminary plat or
     approved site plan is valid (twelve months for the preliminary plat and twelve months for the site




                                                                                                  Page 280
     plan). The division director may grant a one-year extension of the preliminary plat or approved site
     plan, provided the plat still complies with all applicable ordinances.
2.   If a PUD subdivision will be recorded in phases, a final plat for the first phase must be recorded
     within one year of the initial planning commission approval or one-year extension thereof, the validity
     of the unrecorded portions of the approved preliminary plat will extend for one year from the
     recording date of the plat for the previous phase. Extensions of time beyond three years from the
     date of initial approval require review and approval of the planning commission prior to the then
     current expiration of the preliminary plat.




19.78.100 - Post-planning commission approval.

     After completing the preliminary review by the departments, agencies, and planning commission, the
applicant shall submit a final site plan and preliminary and final subdivision plats together with all
supporting documents which comply with all requirements, corrections, additions, etc. required by the
departments, agencies, and planning commission to the planning and development services division
(hereinafter known as the "development plan").
     1.   The planning and development services division, along with the other reviewing departments
          and agencies, shall review the proposed development plan to verify compliance with all
          requirements, corrections, additions, etc.
     2.   After such review, the item may be scheduled for review by the planning commission upon
          referral by the division director or at the request of the planning commission. The final
          development plan shall include all of the information required in the preliminary development
          plan in its finalized detailed form.




19.78.110 - Amendments to the development plan.

     The division director or designee may authorize minor changes in the location, siting, or character of
buildings and structures if required to resolve an engineering or other technical issue, or other
circumstances not identified at the time the final development plan was approved. No change authorized
under this section may cause any of the following ("major changes"):
     1.   A change in the use and/or character of the development.
     2.   An increase in the overall density and/or intensity of use.
     3.   An increase of more than five percent in overall coverage of structures.
     4.   A reduction or change in character of approved open space.
     5.   A reduction of required off-street parking by more than five percent.
     6.   A detrimental alteration to the pedestrian, vehicular, bicycle, circulation, or utility networks.
     7.   A reduction in required street pavement widths.
     8.   An increase in building height.
     9.   A decrease in building setback.
     Any major changes must be proposed to the planning commission after receipt of a recommendation
by planning staff. Proposals under numbers 1. through 9. above require the filing of a new application.
Generally speaking, any major changes must be recorded as amendments in accordance with the
procedure established for adopting the final development plan.



                                                                                                       Page 281
19.78.120 - Failure to begin development.

      If no substantial construction has occurred in the development pursuant to the final development
plan within twelve months from final approval, the approved plan shall become null and void and a new
development plan and application shall be required for any development on the subject property. The
division director, upon a determination of good cause based on evidence submitted by the applicant, may
extend the time for beginning construction a maximum period of twelve months for one time only.




19.78.130 - Phased planned unit development.

     If the sequence of construction of various portions of the final development plan is to occur in stages,
then the open space and/or recreational facilities shall be developed in proportion to the number of
dwelling units intended to be developed during any given stage of construction. A phasing plan, including
size and order of phases, shall be approved by staff to ensure that individual phases of the development
comply with all requirements, including that the open space and/or recreational facilities are installed
proportionately with the approved phasing plan.




Chapter 19.79 - UTILITY AND FACILITY SYSTEM PLACEMENT REGULATIONS



19.79.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of the utility and facility system replacement regulations codified in this chapter is to
promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the countymetro township; preserve and
protect existing aesthetics, property values, and quality of life within residential and other areas of the
countymetro township; and provide notice to the countymetro township and affected property owners of
new or upgraded utility or facility systems to allow an opportunity to determine if sufficient reason exists to
require the systems to be installed underground and to determine if funds are available to pay for
underground installation.




19.79.020 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
     "Accessory equipment" means the portion of the system including equipment sites, transformers,
switchgear, pedestals, terminals, meters, buildings (substations), and other similar equipment that is
normally installed aboveground in accordance with accepted practices of underground systems.
     "Distribution system" means the portion of the system located between: (1) the service drop
transformer and the distribution substation for electric service, (2) the service drop and the receive site
(headend) for cable television, or (3) the service drop and the transmission system for telephone service.
     "Facility company" means a company not regulated by the public service commission that provides a
service including but not limited to cable television or telecommunications.
     "Service drop" means the portion of the system located between the distribution system and wall of
the building or structure occupied or intended to be occupied by a customer.


                                                                                                     Page 282
     "System" means all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables, conduits, pipes and accessory equipment
providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water, sewer, steam or
petroleum including service drops, distribution system, transmission system, and accessory equipment.
      "Transmission system" means the portion of the system which is used to carry the service from
points of generation or switching centers to distribution points such as electrical substations and
equipment sites. In the case of electrical service, a transmission system is defined as carrying a voltage
of forty-six KV or more.
     "Utility company" means a company regulated by the public service commission that provides a
service including but not limited to electricity, telephone, or gas.




19.79.030 - Systems required to be underground.

     Unless exempted under Section 19.79.040 of this chapter, the following systems may be required to
be installed underground:
    A.   All new transmission systems installed after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
         chapter.
    B.   All upgraded transmission systems which would increase the height of poles from less than
         sixty-five feet to more than sixty-five feet above existing grade.




19.79.040 - Exemptions.

    The following systems are exempt from the provisions of Section 19.79.030 of this chapter:
    A.   Except as provided in Section 19.79.030(B) of this chapter, this chapter does not require the
         burial of any existing aboveground systems, nor does it prohibit or restrict the repair, relocation,
         maintenance, or replacement of any existing systems.
    B.   Aboveground installation of the following systems is permitted, subject to compliance with all
         other applicable statutes, ordinances, and regulations:
         1.    New service drops and/or distribution lines where service is available from existing
              aboveground systems;
         2.   Temporary systems required for construction projects not to exceed a period of twelve
              months;
         3.   Street light poles, light rail overhead catenary, wireless telecommunications towers, and
              accessory equipment;
         4.    Transmission systems installed in the two main north-south transmission corridors, as
              identified on the map entitled "main north-south electrical transmission corridors" on file
              with the planning and development services division.
    C.     In cases where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions or
         circumstances exist such that the installation of a system would have minimal visual, health, or
         safety impact on the public, variations or exceptions to the requirements of this chapter may be
         approved by the countymetro township mayorcouncil chair or designee; provided, that the
         variations and exceptions are consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
    D.    In cases where the countymetro township mayorcouncil chair or designee determines that
         insufficient funds are available to pay for the incremental costs of underground installation of a




                                                                                                   Page 283
          system or determines that the public benefit to be derived from underground installation is not
          cost effective or is otherwise not in the public interest:
          1.   The countymetro township mayorcouncil chair or designee shall give notice to the utility or
               facility company that the countymetro township will not require the underground installation
               and will not pay the incremental costs of underground installation of the system:
               a.   Within ninety days after notice is given under Section 19.79.050 of this chapter in the
                    case of a new transmission system; and
               b.   Within sixty days after notice is given under Section 19.79.050 of this chapter in the
                    case of a new distribution system or an upgraded transmission system which would
                    increase the height of poles from less than sixty-five feet to more than sixty-five feet
                    above existing grade.
          2.   If the countymetro township mayorcouncil chair or designee has not given notice to the
               utility or facility company regarding underground installation as provided in subsection
               (D)(1) of this section it shall be deemed that the countymetro township mayorcouncil chair
               has determined that insufficient funds are available to pay for the incremental costs of
               underground installation or has determined that the public benefit to be derived from
               underground installation is otherwise not in the public interest.




19.79.050 - Notification of affected property owners.

       Prior to beginning a project involving the installation or upgrading of four or more poles, a
utility/facility company providing electrical power for general consumption shall send written notification of
the project to all adjacent property owners and the director of public works. The purpose of such
notification is to allow the countymetro township and potentially affected property owners to determine
whether there are reasons to require the underground installation of the system, to determine whether
sufficient funds are available to pay the incremental costs of underground installation of the new or
upgraded system, and provide the countymetro township the opportunity to meet with the company to
discuss the project. Such notification shall include a full description of the project including, but not limited
to: (1) the need for the project, (2) location of the project, (3) height, width, type and general location of
poles, and (4) amount of voltage. Failure of property owners to receive notice of the project shall in no
way affect the validity of action taken. Failure to reach an agreement within the sixty-day period shall not
be grounds for the delay of the project. Notification is not required for emergency projects, relocations,
replacements and systems which are exempt under Section 19.79.040 of this chapter except for an
exemption resulting after notification under Section 19.79.040(D) of this chapter.




19.79.060 - Excavation permit required.

    All underground systems to be installed in the right-of-way of any countymetro township road shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 14.16 of this code, Excavations.




Chapter 19.80 - OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS

Article I. - General Provisions




                                                                                                       Page 284
19.80.010 - Purpose.

    The purpose of this chapter is to reduce street congestion and traffic hazards in the countymetro
township by incorporating efficient, attractive facilities for off-street parking, loading, and internal
automobile and pedestrian circulation as an integral part of every use of land.




19.80.020 - Off-street parking required.

A.    At the time any building or structure is erected, enlarged, increased in capacity, or any use is
     established, off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements in this chapter.
B.   Plans Required to Obtain Building Permit. All applications for a building permit shall be accompanied
     by a site plan showing a parking layout that complies with the provisions of this chapter that shows
     ingress and egress, loading areas, internal automobile and pedestrian circulation, and landscaping.
     The plan shall be reviewed and approved by the planning and development services division
     consistent with the provisions of this chapter. Parking requirements may be calculated separately for
     each business or land use in a building.




19.80.030 - Specifications.

A.    Parking Stall Size. Each off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet for
     diagonal or ninety-degree spaces, or eight by twenty feet for parallel spaces, exclusive of access
     drives or aisles. Parking stalls adjacent to a column or wall must have an additional two feet of width
     to accommodate ingress/egress from the vehicle. Access to parking spaces shall be from private
     roadways and not from public streets.
B.    Parking Lot Policies. Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township may adopt policies
     regarding aisle widths, angled parking, and turn-around areas for parking lots, and parking stall sizes
     for valet parking.
C.    Surfacing. Except for "provisional parking areas" as allowed under Section 19.80.110 of this chapter,
     any off-street parking area located in an R-, C-, or M-, MD-, or O-R-D zone shall be surfaced with an
     asphaltic or portland cement or other binder pavement, so as to provide a durable and dustless
     surface, shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of all surface water accumulated within the
     area, and shall be so arranged and marked as to provide the orderly and safe loading or unloading
     and parking and storage of vehicles. Surfacing requirements for parking areas located in FR-, FM-,
     A-, FA-, and S-1-G zones shall take into account the proposed land use, location of the property, and
     impact of paved parking.
D.    Maintenance. Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area, including
     commercial parking lots and automobile, farm equipment, or other open-air sales lots, shall be
     developed and maintained in accordance with the requirements set out in this chapter.
E.    Screening. The sides and rear of any off-street parking area for more than five vehicles which
     adjoins or faces an institutional use or residential building shall be effectively screened by a masonry
     wall or solid visual barrier fence unless otherwise provided for more specifically by the requirements
     of the zoning district in which such parking area is located. Such wall or fence shall be not less than
     six feet in height and shall be maintained in good condition without any advertising thereon.
F.   Landscaping. All parking areas shall contain landscaping in compliance with the provisions of
     Chapter 19.77 72of this title.
G.   Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be so arranged as to direct light
     away from adjoining premises and from street traffic. No light source (light bulb, fluorescent tube, or


                                                                                                    Page 285
     other direct source of light used to illuminate a parking area) shall be visible beyond the property line
     of any off-street parking area.
H.   Coverage. No off-street parking area shall occupy more than sixty-five percent of the property not
     occupied by buildings.




19.80.035 - Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones.

A.   Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-way to the
     required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone. The driveway shall be constructed of
     a durable, hard surface such as: concrete (including permeable concrete), asphalt (including
     permeable asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. The number, location, and width of driveways
     shall comply with the specifications set forth in sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of the County
     Code of Ordinances. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet in length are subject to approval by the
     fire authority. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
     driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable
     provisions of this title regulating landscaping.
B.   Private vehicles. Private vehicles parked on residential property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall comply
     with the following:
     1.   If parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or 19.83.035.A, a
          private vehicle may be located in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.
     2.   If parked or stored on any other type of surface, private vehicles must be behind the front line of
          the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring properties with a six-
          foot, tall (minimum) opaque fence.
C.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any R-1 or
     R-2 zone shall comply with the following:
     1.   If parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or 19.83.035.A, a
          recreational vehicle may be located in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.
          Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad which is
          constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.
     2.   If parked or stored on any other type of surface, recreational vehicles must be behind the front
          line of the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring properties with a
          six-foot tall (minimum) opaque fence.
D.   Commercial vehicles. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on residential property in
     an R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:
     1.   Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully- permitted
          construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are diligently
          pursued.
     2.   One commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of the dwelling and, screened from
          view from public streets or neighboring properties with a six-foot tall (minimum) opaque fence.
     3.   One commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side yard of a dwelling, in the R-1 or
          R-2 zones upon issuance of a permit by planning and development services, as long as all of
          the following criteria are met:
          a.   No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property.
          b.   The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call 24 hours a day to use the vehicle in
               response to an emergency;




                                                                                                    Page 286
           c.   The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface in compliance with section
                19.80.030.C or 19.80.035.A;
           d.   The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over the
                street or sidewalk; and
           e.   The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks) in
                Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.




Article II. - Parking Requirements



19.80.040 - Number of spaces required.

A.   Except where variations and exceptions are allowed under Sections 19.80.070 through 19.80.100 of
     this chapter, a number of parking spaces equal to the sum of the required number of parking spaces
     for all uses on a property, including multiple uses within the same building, shall be provided. Except
     in cases where a site-specific traffic study demonstrates a need for additional parking, no parking
     area for more than twenty stalls shall exceed the number of stalls required below unless the
     additional parking is installed as "provisional parking" under Section 19.80.110 of this chapter. The
     number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as follows:
     1.    Amusement center (arcade), one space per one hundred square feet of floor area;
     2.    Automobile or machinery sales and service garages, two spaces plus one space for each four
           hundred square feet of floor area;
     3.    Banks, post offices, business and professional offices, one space for each two hundred fifty
           square feet of gross floor area;
     4.    Bowling alleys, five for each alley;
     5.    Churches, one space for each six and one-half feet of linear pew or three and one-half seats in
           an auditorium; provided, however, that where a church building is designed or intended to be
           used by two congregations at the same time, one and one-half parking spaces shall be provided
           for each three and one-half seats in the auditorium. For buildings designed or intended to be
           used for conferences or other special meetings involving more than the regular congregations,
           additional parking shall be required as determined by the planning commission;
     6.    Dancehalls and assembly halls without fixed seats, exhibition halls, except church assembly
           rooms in conjunction with auditorium, three spaces for each one hundred square feet of floor
           area used by assembly or dancing;
     7.    Day care center for children, four spaces plus one space per five hundred square feet of floor
           area;
     8.    Dormitory building, one space for each tenant;
     9.     Dwellings, multiple, two spaces for each dwelling unit. In multi-family developments and
           dwelling groups where private covered parking is utilized, additional parking for guests shall be
           required. The planning commission shall determine the amount of guest parking required to
           meet the parking needs of each development;
     10.    Dwellings, single-family, two spaces for each dwelling unit. For single-family dwellings, the
           parking spaces may be arranged one behind the other;
     11.    Funeral homes, mortuaries, reception centers, one space for each forty square feet of floor
           area in assembly room;



                                                                                                  Page 287
12.    Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment or furniture repair shop, one space for
      each six hundred square feet of gross leasable area;
13.    Hospitals and convalescent hospitals, two spaces per bed for the total capacity of building;
14.    Hotels, motels and motor hotels, one space for each living or sleeping unit, plus parking for all
      accessory uses as defined in this title;
15.    Indoor firearms and/or archery range, two spaces per shooting point;
16.    Manufacturing plants, research or testing laboratories, bottling plants, one space for each
      person employed on the highest employment shift;
17.    Medical or dental clinics, six spaces for each doctor's office;
18.    Nursing homes, four spaces plus one space per each five beds;
19.    Recreation, four spaces per court for tennis courts, three spaces per court for racquetball
      courts, two spaces per court for squash courts;
20.    Residential health care facility:
      a.   Four spaces for facilities with five or less residents, the parking spaces may be arranged
           one behind the other,
      b.   Four spaces plus one space per each five beds;
21.    Restaurants or private nonprofit clubs, one space for each two and one-half seats or three
      spaces per one hundred square feet of floor area, whichever is greater;
22.    Retail stores, shops, etc., except as provided in this subsection, one space for each two
      hundred fifty square feet of gross floor area;
23.    Rooming and lodging homes, one space for each tenant;
24.    Schools, one space for each three and one-half seats in an auditorium, plus one space for
      each administrator and faculty;
25.    Shopping centers and other multi-tenant retail buildings, five spaces for each one thousand
      square feet of gross leasable area;
26.     Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters, assembly halls and meeting rooms, one space for each
      three and one-half seats of maximum seating capacity;
27.     Trailer sales, five spaces minimum, or five percent of the total site area excluding the
      landscaped areas, whichever is greater;
28.    Wholesale establishments, warehouses, service and maintenance centers and communication
      equipment buildings, one space for each person employed during the highest employment shift;
29.    Bed and breakfast homestay, two spaces for each dwelling unit plus one space for each
      guestroom;
30.    Short-term rental, two spaces per dwelling unit plus one additional space for each bedroom
      exceeding two bedrooms. For buildings with two dwelling units or less, the third and fourth
      spaces, when required, can be in tandem with the first two spaces required;
31.    Bed and breakfast inn, one space for each person employed on the highest employment shift,
      plus one space for every guestroom, plus parking for all accessory uses defined in this title;
32.     Residential facility for elderly persons, two spaces for the dwelling unit plus two spaces for
      visitors, the parking spaces may be arranged one behind the other;
33.    Apartments for elderly persons, one space for each dwelling unit;
34.    Outdoor display and sales, including garden centers, nurseries, lumber yards, building
      materials sales yards; one space for each one thousand square feet of display and sales area.


                                                                                              Page 288
B.    Number of Parking Spaces for Uses Not Specified. For any use of buildings not specified in this
     section, or for uses of a seasonal or temporary nature, the off-street parking requirement shall be
     determined by the division director being guided, where appropriate, by comparable ordinances from
     other jurisdictions, accepted planning industry standards, or the requirements set forth in this section
     for uses or buildings which, in the opinion of the division director, are similar to the use or building
     under consideration.
C.    Accessible Parking Spaces. For nonresidential parking areas, the accessible parking spaces
     required to satisfy the Americans with Disabilities Act shall be provided within the total number of
     stalls required above. For multi-family residential developments, the accessible stalls shall be
     provided in addition to the number of stalls required above.
D.   Bicycle Parking. To encourage the use of bicycles for personal transportation as an alternative to
     motor vehicles, requirements are established herein to provide bicycle parking at regional,
     community, neighborhood, and other transportation and travel destinations.
     1.    Bicycle parking facilities shall be provided for any new commercial, office, manufacturing,
          industrial, multi-family residential, recreational, public and/or quasi-public use for which
          automobile parking is required; or for modification or change of any use listed above that results
          in the need for additional automobile parking facilities, as follows:
          a.   The number of bicycle parking spaces required shall be equal to five percent of the
               vehicular parking spaces required for such use, with a minimum requirement of two
               spaces, and a maximum requirement of twelve.
          b.   Bicycle parking spaces shall be:
               i.     Located on the same lot as the principal use;
               ii.    Located and designed to prevent damage to bicycles by cars;
               iii.    Located so as not to interfere with pedestrian movements;
               iv.    Located in a highly visible, well-lighted area that is located near entrance(s) to the
                      building;
               v.     Located to provide safe access from the spaces to the public right-of-way or bicycle
                      lane;
               vi.     Designed to accommodate a range of bicycle shapes and sizes, and to allow the
                      frame and wheel(s) of each bicycle to be supported and secured against theft without
                      interfering with adjacent bicycles;
               vii.    Anchored to resist removal by vandalism and resistant to rust or corrosion.
     2.   Bicycle parking spaces which meet the above requirements may be located within the building.
     3.   The proposed bicycle parking spaces shall be clearly shown on the site plan indicating location
          and type.




19.80.050 - Off-street loading.

      For every building or part thereof not provided with docking facilities which has a gross floor area of
ten thousand square feet or more, and which is to be occupied by a commercial or industrial use to or
from which delivery of materials or merchandise is regularly made by motor vehicle, there shall be
provided and maintained on the same lot with such building at least one off-street loading space, plus one
additional space for each additional twenty thousand square feet or major fraction thereof. Each loading
space shall be not less than ten feet in width, twenty-five feet in length, and fourteen feet in height. Such
space may occupy any required yard or court only if it is enclosed by a brick or stone wall not less than
six feet in height.


                                                                                                     Page 289
19.80.060 - Gasoline pump requirements.

A.   Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than twenty-four feet from any street property line, and
     not less than thirty feet from any residential zone boundary line. If the pump island is set at an angle
     on the property, it shall be so located that automobiles stopped for service will not extend over the
     property line.
B.   Canopies constructed to provide a weather shield over gasoline pump islands shall be set back not
     less than six feet from any street line and not less than ten feet from any residential zone boundary.




Article III. - Variations and Exceptions



19.80.070 - Valet parking program.

A.   A valet parking program is defined as a parking plan which has personnel retained to assist parking
     at a drop-off area and exclusively controls the parking of vehicles into valet spaces until they are
     returned to a pick-up area. The plan shall identify the following
     1.   The location of parking spaces, pick-up areas, drop-off areas, and egress/ingress;
     2.   The involvement of personnel; and
     3.   General operating procedures.
B.    Eight percent of the required parking spaces shall be reserved as self-parking spaces and shall be
     indicated as such on the plan. Self-parking spaces shall meet the requirements of Section 19.80.030.




19.80.080 - Shared parking.

A.   Notwithstanding any other parking requirements provided in this chapter, when different land uses
     occupy the same or adjacent lot(s) in the R-M, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-V or. M-1, M-2, MD-1, MD-3, or the
     O-R-D zones, the total number of off-street parking spaces required for each use (see Section
     19.80.040 of this chapter) may be combined and shared upon approval as provided herein. A
     proposal for sharing of off-street parking shall be presented to the planning and development
     services division director for site plan review and approval. Conditional use applications which
     require planning commission approval, and for which shared parking is being proposed as part of the
     application, must have planning commission approval for the shared parking.
B.   In determining the total requirements for shared parking facilities, the division director or planning
     commission shall use Table 19.80.080(a), set out below, according to the following guidelines:
     1.   For each applicable general land use category, calculate the number of spaces required for a
          use as if it were the only use (refer to the schedule of minimum off-street parking requirements).
     2.   Use the figures for each individual land use to calculate the number of spaces required for that
          use for each time period specified in the table (six time periods per use).
     3.   For each time period, add the number of spaces required for all applicable land uses to obtain a
          grand total for each of the six time periods.




                                                                                                   Page 290
      4.   Select the time period with the highest total parking requirement and use that as the total
           number of parking spaces required for the site on a shared parking basis.
C.     For uses not listed in Table 19.80.080(a), the division director shall determine the required parking
      for the six time periods.
                                            Table 19.80.080(a)

                                         Weekdays                                 Weekends

     General Land Use
                             12:00                                    12:00
        Category                     7:00 a.m.— 6:00 p.m.—                    7:00 a.m.— 6:00 p.m.—
                           a.m.—7:00                                a.m.—7:00
                                      6:00 p.m. 12:00 a.m.                     6:00 p.m. 12:00 a.m.
                              a.m.                                     a.m.

     Office & Industrial       5%          100%           5%            0%            5%            0%

           Retail              5%          100%           80%           5%           100%          60%

        Restaurant            50%           70%          100%           70%          50%          100%

           Hotel              100%          65%          100%          100%          65%          100%

        Residential           100%          50%           80%          100%          75%           75%

Theater/entertainment          5%           20%          100%           5%           50%          100%

     Place of worship          0%           30%           50%           0%           100%          75%




19.80.090 - Planning commission exceptions.

      Upon a finding by the planning commission that a proposed site plan is in harmony with the general
plan of the community in which it is located and that effective tools have been employed in the creation of
a transit oriented development, community re-development project, or walkable community project, the
planning commission may reduce the number of required parking stalls for any proposed development. In
approving any such reduction, the planning commission may use such tools as: recommendations from
the planning and development services staff a site-specific traffic study conducted by a qualified
engineering firm, American Planning Association guidelines, Envision Utah guidelines, and/or Urban Land
Institute guidelines.




19.80.100 - Community parking credits.

     Upon a finding by the planning commission for conditional uses or the planning and development
services division director for permitted uses, that parking is available either on public property or on
property leased by a public entity for community parking, which parking is conveniently located to a
particular land use, credits may be given toward the parking requirement for said land use. In cases
where multiple businesses or land uses qualify to use the same parking spaces for community parking


                                                                                                  Page 291
credits, the credits shall be pro-rated for each land use. In calculating the pro-rated community parking
credits, the planning commission or division director shall consider such factors as: the amount of
frontage a property has on the street, the total number of parking stalls required for a given land use, and
the potential for future development in the immediate vicinity creating further demand for parking spaces.
The planning commission or division director may also use Table 19.80.080(a) for land uses in different
general categories to consider shared community parking.




19.80.110 - Provisional parking.

     "Provisional parking" is defined as an area or areas within a parking lot where parking spaces which
are shown on the approved parking plan are landscaped rather than paved. The following conditions
apply to provisional parking areas:
     1.   Provisional parking spaces must be shown on the site plan as complying with the parking stall
          size requirements of this chapter as well as the maneuverability and aisle requirements of
          planning commission policy.
     2.   Provisional parking spaces may be landscaped in such a way that they can be used for parking
          on a seasonal or temporary basis.
     3.   After one year's time from the issuance of the land use permit, a property owner may request a
          review of the provisional parking. Upon a finding by the planning commission for conditional
          uses or the division director of planning and development services for permitted uses that the
          additional parking is needed, approval shall be granted for the provisional parking to be paved.
     4.   The planning commission may set conditions of approval as part of any conditional use permit
          that utilizes provisional parking as allowed under Section 19.84.050 to provide for monitoring
          and future review of the parking plan.




Chapter 19.81 - HIGHWAY NOISE ABATEMENT MEASURES



19.81.010 - Findings.

A.    The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) regulation entitled "Procedures for Abatement of
     Highway Traffic Noise and Construction Noise" (23 CFR 772) provides procedures for noise studies
     and noise abatement measures to help protect the public health and welfare, supplies noise
     abatement criteria, and establishes requirements for information to be given to local officials for use
     in the planning and design of federal-aid highways. The Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT)
     policy entitled "Noise Abatement" (Policy #08-111), adopted pursuant to 23 CFR 772, addresses
     highway noise impacts and sets forth conditions under which noise abatement projects may be
     approved and constructed in the state of Utah with the use of federal-aid highway participation funds.
B.    In order for UDOT to obtain participation funds from FHWA for proposed federal-aid highway
     projects for noise abatement measures on existing highways (known as "Type II Projects"), local
     authorities are required to take measures "...to exercise land use control over the remaining
     undeveloped lands adjacent to highways in the local jurisdiction to prevent further development of
     incompatible activities." 23 CFR 772.13(b).
C.    In an effort to prevent future traffic noise impacts on currently undeveloped lands, 23 CFR 772.15
     requires that highway agencies shall inform local officials within whose jurisdiction the highway
     project is located of the following:



                                                                                                  Page 292
     1.   The best estimation of future noise levels (for various distances from the highway improvement)
          for both developed and undeveloped lands or properties in the immediate vicinity of the project;
     2.   Information that may be useful to local communities to protect future land development from
          becoming incompatible with anticipated highway noise levels; and
     3.   Eligibility for federal-aid participation for Type II Projects as described in 23 CFR 772.13(b).
D.   In order for Salt Lake County residents to benefit from the development and implementation of Type
     II Projects for noise abatement along eligible highways within its boundaries, it is found to be in the
     county's best interests to comply with federal regulation and state policy by adopting this zoning
     ordinance codified in this chapter.




19.81.020 - Purpose of provisions.

     The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the county by minimizing the potential adverse effects of highway traffic
noise and by complying with state and federal requirements for highway traffic noise abatement projects.




19.81.030 - Development of property adjacent to certain state highways.

     Consistent with the requirements of 23 CFR 772 and UDOT's Noise Abatement Policy #08-111, no
remaining undeveloped lands located in the unincorporated county adjacent to Type II Projects (freeways
and expressways) shall be developed for any use or activity which is incompatible with highway traffic
noise levels, unless the development of such lands shall include appropriate noise abatement measures
determined necessary and appropriate by the county and UDOT. A use or activity shall be deemed
incompatible with highway traffic noise levels when a "traffic noise impact" occurs, as determined under
the following formula:
                                          Noise Abatement Criteria
                             Hourly A-Weighted Sound Level—decibels (dBA)
                                  Leq shown are maximum levels allowed:

  Activity
               Leq(h)                               Description of Activity Category
 Category


                         Lands on which serenity and quiet are of extraordinary significance and serve an
                 57
     A                   important public need and where the preservation of those qualities is essential if
              (exterior)
                         the area is to continue to serve its intended purpose.


                 67      Picnic areas, fixed recreation areas, playgrounds, active sports areas, parks,
     B
              (exterior) residences, motels, hotels, schools, churches, libraries, and hospitals.


                 72      Cemeteries, commercial areas, industrial areas, office buildings, and other
     C
              (exterior) developed lands, properties or activities not included in Categories A or B above.




                                                                                                     Page 293
     D           —         Undeveloped lands (including roadside facilities and dispersed recreation).


                  52     Residences, motels, hotels, public meeting rooms, schools, churches, libraries,
     E
              (interior) hospitals, and auditoriums.




19.81.040 - Responsibility of owner or developer.

     The owner or developer of land to be subdivided, improved or developed adjacent to Type II Projects
shall be responsible to comply with any and all requirements for noise abatement measures imposed
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Failure to so comply shall constitute a violation of county
ordinance and shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in Chapter 1.12 of this title.




Chapter 19.82 - SIGNS



19.82.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate excessive and confusing sign displays that create
potential hazards to motorists, pedestrians, property, and also to maintain a responsible communication
system by setting requirements for the location, size, height and lighting of signs that will be compatible
with adjoining land uses, architecture and landscape, and that will preserve and improve the aesthetic
values and visual qualities of Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township.




19.82.020 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter:
     "A-frame sign" means temporary and/or movable sign constructed with two sides attached at the top
so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
     "Advertising sign." See "off-premises sign."
     "Alterations" means a change or rearrangement in the structural parts or design whether by
extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by relocating or change in position.
       "Animated sign" means a sign which induces motion or rotation of any part by mechanical, or
artificial means, or subdued color changes.
     "Animation" means simulated movement created by the display of a series of pictures or images,
creating the illusion of movement.
    "Awning sign" means a sign designed in awning form that is an illuminated or nonilluminated space
frame structure attached to a building or other permanent structure.
    "Balloon sign" means advertisement supported by a balloon anchored to the premises where the
advertised use is conducted, product or commodity sold, service performed, or business name is located.
     "Beacon light" means:



                                                                                                   Page 294
     a.   Any light with one or more beams, capable of being directed in any direction or directions, or
          capable of being revolved automatically; or
     b.   A fixed or flashing high-intensity light, such as a spotlight, a floodlight, or a strobe light.
     c.   "Beacon light" shall not include searchlights.
     "Billboard bank" means an accounting system established by the countymetro township to keep track
of the number of billboard signs and the square footage of each billboard sign removed pursuant to
Section 19.82.185 of this chapter.
   "Billboard credit" means an entry into a billboard owner's billboard bank account that indicates the
number of billboard sign locations and the square footage of each billboard sign.
    "Billboard owner" means the owner of a billboard in unincorporated Salt LakeEmigration Canyon
CountyMetro Township.
     "Billboard sign" means an off-premises advertising sign.
     "Business sign" means an on-premises sign.
     "Construction sign" means a sign identifying an existing or proposed development project which may
contain the name of the project, name and address of construction firms, architects, engineers,
developers, etc.
    "Dissolve" means an image transition effect accomplished by varying the image intensity or pattern,
where the first image gradually appears to dissipate and lose legibility simultaneously with the gradual
appearance and legibility of the subsequent image.
      "Electronic message center" or "EMC" means a mechanism or device which uses a combination of
lights, or lighted or unlighted panels which are controlled electrically and electronically to produce words,
symbols, pictures or messages which may change within a given panel area.
    "Embellishment, cut-out or extension" means an extension of the billboard resulting in increased
square footage as part of an artistic design to convey a specific message or advertisement.
     "Existing billboard" means a billboard that is eitherwas constructed, or for which an application for a
land use permit was received and approved by the planning and development services division and state
authorities where necessary, prior to May 18, 2004. Billboards that have received prior approval from the
county at a particular location must be approved by the state by June 2, 2005. If no state approval is
given, the county approval shall expire on said date and the permit shall become null and void.
     "Fade" means an image transition effect accomplished by varying the intensity of the image, where
the first image gradually reduces intensity to the point of not being legible and the subsequent image
gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility.
    "Flashing sign" means a sign which has or appears to have motion or rotation of the lighting
elements or displays flashing or intermittent light.
     "Flat sign" means a sign erected parallel to and attached to the outside wall of a building and
extending not more than twenty-four inches from such wall with messages or copy on the face side only.
     "Floodlighted sign" means a sign made legible in the absence of daylight by devices which reflect or
project light upon it.
     "Footcandle" means the English unit of measurement for illuminance, which is equal to one lumen,
incident upon an area of one foot.
     "Ground sign" means a sign supported by a fixed permanent frame support in the ground.
      "Illuminance" means the photometric quantity most closely associated with the perception of
brightness and a measurement of the intensity of light falling on a surface at a given distance from the
light source.




                                                                                                            Page 295
     "Illuminated sign" means a sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or outlines illuminated
by electric lights or luminous tubes.
    "Image" means the display of text, numbers or the likeness of an object or living thing of any type on
an EMC.
     "Image display duration" means the period of time that an image remains static.
     "Image transition duration" means the period of time in which one image changes to another on an
electronic message center.
     "Interior sign" means a sign located within a building so as to be primarily visible only from within the
building in which the sign is located.
    "Mobile sign" means a sign mounted on trailer or frame, lighted or unlighted, which is not
permanently attached to a structure or the ground.
    "Monument sign" means a sign which is incorporated into the landscape or architectural design
scheme and displaying the name of uses or buildings.
     "Nameplate sign" means a sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person legally occupying
the premises or indicating a legal home occupation thereon.
     "Nonconforming billboard" means an existing billboard that is located in a zoning district or otherwise
situated in a way that is not permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
      "Nonconforming sign or sign structure" means a sign or sign structure or portion thereof lawfully
existing at the effective date of this chapter or any amendment hereto which does not conform to all
height, area, yard, spacing, animation, lighting, use or other regulations prescribed in the zone in which it
is located after the effective date of this chapter or any amendment hereto.
     "Off-premises sign" means a sign directing attention to a use, product, commodity or service not
related to the premises upon which the sign is located.
     "On-premises sign" means a sign directing attention to a use conducted, product or commodity sold,
service performed or business name upon the premises on which it is located.
     "Overhanging sign" means a sign which projects twelve inches or more over the roof of a building.
      "Pedestal sign" means a temporary and/or movable sign supported by a column(s) and a base so as
to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
      "Political sign" means a sign advertising a candidate or candidates for public elective office, or a
political party, or a sign urging a particular vote on a public issue decided by ballot.
     "Projecting sign" means a sign attached to a building or canopy and extending in whole or part more
than twenty-four inches beyond any wall of the building or canopy.
     "Promotional sign board" means a permanently attached changeable copy sign not exceeding twenty
square feet per face with one or two faces back to back for the display of promotional items offered for
sale on the premises.
     "Property sign" means a sign related to the property upon which it is located and offering such
information as address, name of occupant for residential uses, sale or lease of the property, warning
against trespassing, any hazard, or other danger on the property.
     "Roof sign" means a sign which is erected partly or wholly on the roof of the building.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a sign structure having main supports embedded in the ground shall not
be considered to be a roof sign even if the sign's supports pass through a roof, canopy or parapet of a
building.
     "Scintillate" or "scintillating" means light flashes, light sparkling, light starbursts, light twinkling, light
pulsating or any other image transition effect or animation in which an image instantly and repeatedly
changes for the purpose of attracting attention.



                                                                                                         Page 296
     "Service sign" means a sign that is incidental to a use lawfully occupying the property upon which the
sign is located and which sign is necessary to provide information to the public, such as direction to
parking lots, location of restrooms, entrance and exits, etc. A service sign shall also include signs
providing information about sale of agricultural products produced upon the premises. A business trade
mark or logo may appear on the sign provided it is secondary to the information portion of the sign.
     "Sign" means and includes every advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
display, illustration, insignia surface or space erected or maintained in view of the observer thereof for
identification, advertisement or promotion of the interests of any person, entity, product or service. "Sign"
also includes the sign structure supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments or other
features used to draw the attention of observers.
    "Sign area" means the area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the minimum frame
and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-back or double-faced sign shall be
computed when signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not more than forty-five
degrees.
     In relation to signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, sign area shall be computed
on the basis of the least rectilinear line with a maximum of eight sides, triangle or circle large enough to
frame the display.
     Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder, cone, pyramid, square or other such shapes
shall be computed as one-half of the total surface area.
     "Sign maintenance" means that signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good condition,
including the replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning and other acts required for the
maintenance of the sign.
     "Sign setback" means the minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign structure shall be from
any street right-of-way line and yard line coterminous with a street.
     "Sign structure" means anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which requires location on
or below the ground or attached to something having location on or below the ground.
     "Snipe sign" means a sign which is attached to a public utility pole, fixture poles, canopy supports, or
the supports for another sign.
     "Static" means no motion of any type or form.
    "Temporary sign," as regulated by this title, shall include any sign, banner, pennant, valance or
advertising display constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light
materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed out of doors for a short period of time.
    "Time and temperature device" means any mechanism that displays the time and/or temperature but
does not display any commercial advertising or identification.
     "Video" means simulated movement created by the display of a series of images creating the illusion
of continuous movement.
    "Wall sign" means a sign that is either painted on a wall or its facing by not having a sign frame or
separation from the wall or facing.
     "Window sign" means a sign permanently attached and located within a building so as to be visible
through a window or door outside of the building.




19.82.025 - Noncommercial signs.

    Any sign authorized under this chapter is allowed to contain noncommercial copy in lieu of any
permissible copy.



                                                                                                   Page 297
19.82.030 - Interpretation.

A.   Properties divided by public streets are not adjacent.
B.   The sign requirements contained in this chapter are declared to be the maximum allowable.
C.   Sign types not specifically allowed as set forth within this chapter shall be prohibited.
D.    Where other ordinances are in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, the most restrictive
     ordinance shall apply.




19.82.040 - Conformity required.

A.   Except as provided in this title, a sign shall not be erected, raised, moved, placed, reconstructed,
     extended, enlarged or altered, unless in conformity with the regulations specified in this chapter.
B.    A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed, raised, moved, placed, extended or enlarged
     unless the sign is changed so as to conform to all provisions of this title. Alterations shall also mean
     the changing of the text or message that the sign is conveying from one use of the premises to
     another use of the premises and the changing of the ownership of the sign when that ownership
     necessitates a change in the text or message of the sign. Alterations shall not be interpreted to
     include changing the text or copy of electronic message centers, off-premises advertising signs,
     theater signs, outdoor bulletin or other similar signs which are designed to accommodate changeable
     copy.




19.82.050 - Exceptions.

A.   When a parcel of land is five acres or larger, the planning commission may consider an on-premises
     sign proposal for a development on such parcel that is less restrictive than the regulations set forth in
     this chapter, as a conditional use providing there is a determination that the proposed sign
     exceptions are:
     1.   Not in conflict with the purpose of this chapter;
     2.   In architectural harmony with the development and other buildings and uses adjacent to the
          development.
B.   Signs not regulated by this chapter:
     1.    On-premises advertising signs that are attached to windows or walls and are clearly of a
          temporary nature, which promote specific sales;
     2.   Signs which are associated with school or church events and functions, which are clearly of a
          temporary nature;
     3.   Interior signs;
     4.   Time and temperature devices;
     5.   Searchlights.




19.82.060 - Comprehensive sign plan.


                                                                                                    Page 298
     When an application for the first permit (building permit or conditional use permit) on a parcel of
ground is submitted to the countymetro township, it shall be accompanied by a complete comprehensive
sign plan for all existing, proposed or future signs on the parcel of ground.




19.82.070 - Building permit exceptions.

    Building permits are required for signs except for property signs, political signs and nameplates
conforming to the provisions of this chapter. (See Section 19.82.050(B).)




19.82.080 - Size computation.

A.   The following shall be used when calculating sign sizes: When more than one use occupies a lot, the
     frontage may be used to calculate the sign size for one total ground or projecting sign, not for each
     use. The total may then be divided between the uses. There may be any number of flat or wall signs,
     provided their total does not exceed the percentage of wall area coverage allowed.
B.   A property line which abuts a nonaccess freeway, road, street or right-of-way may not be used in
     computing sign area.




19.82.085 - Height of ground signs.

     The height of ground signs, except as otherwise specified in this chapter, shall be measured from the
grade at the property line of the yard in which the sign is located, but shall not exceed the height allowed
in the zone.




19.82.090 - Imprint of ownership required.

     The imprint of the sign owner and sign erector of all signs shall be in plain and public view.




19.82.100 - Off-premises sign requirements.

     Off-premises signs erected along the interstate or the primary highway system as defined by the
state shall conform with the provisions of the Utah Outdoor Advertising Act.




19.82.110 - Visibility at intersections.

A.   There shall be a minimum clearance of ten feet between the ground and any part of a projecting sign
     or ground sign, as measured from the grade of the intersecting streets and located within the clear
     view of an intersection, which is a triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line
     connecting them at points forty feet from the intersection of the street lines. Any portion of a sign




                                                                                                      Page 299
     structure within the clear view of an intersection and nearer the ground than ten feet may not exceed
     ten inches in width, thickness or diameter.
B.   A service sign located within the clear view of an intersection shall not exceed two feet in height.




19.82.120 - Signs on public property.

     No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or inside street rights-of-way except signs required
and erected by permission of an authorized public agency. Signs shall include, but not be limited to,
handbills, posters, advertisements or notices that are fastened, placed, posted, painted or attached in any
way upon any curbstone, lamppost, telephone pole, telegraph pole, electric light or power pole, hydrant,
bridge, tree, rock, sidewalk or street.




19.82.130 - Lighted signs.

A.   A lighted sign shall not be installed which permits the light to penetrate beyond the property in such
     a manner as to annoy or interfere with the use of adjacent properties.
B.    Such lights alleged to violate subsection A of this section by the adjacent property owners or
     development services division director shall be subject to a public hearing before the planning
     commission as to the validity of the alleged violation. If such light is determined to be in violation, the
     owner of the light shall take appropriate, corrective action as directed.




19.82.135 - Electronic message center requirements for on-premises signs.

A.   An electronic message center shall only display static images. An electronic message center shall
     not display scrolling text, video images, or scintillating images.
B.   The minimum image display duration shall be four seconds.
C.   The maximum image transition duration shall be three seconds. Transitions from one static image
     shall fade out and fade or dissolve in to the next static image without the use of flashing, animation,
     or movement.
D.    All electronic message centers shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that automatically
     determines the ambient illumination and must be programmed to automatically dim according to
     ambient light conditions. The nighttime illuminance of an electronic message center shall not
     increase ambient lighting conditions by more than three-tenths footcandles when measured
     perpendicular to the electronic message center face at a distance determined by the following
     formula:
     Measurement Distance (in feet) = The square root of [Area of electronic message center face in
     square feet) × 100]

E.    Where allowed as a conditional use, conditions may be imposed by the planning commission
     regarding hours of sign operation, sign height, sign size, and/or setbacks from property lines to
     mitigate impacts on nearby residential properties, to protect critical viewsheds as established in the
     general plan, or to prevent potential traffic hazards.
F.   Electronic message center conditional use requirements, allowed sign types, and allowable sizes by
     zone are set forth in Table 19.82.135.



                                                                                                      Page 300
                               Table 19.82.135
 ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS, ALLOWED SIGN TYPES,
                        AND ALLOWABLE SIZES BY ZONE

                                                                       Allowable EMC Size as a Percentage
            Allowed Sign
                            Conditional or Permitted Use Approval         of Total Allowable Sign Size Per
                Types
                                                                                 Table 19.82.190 1

             Monument      Permitted                                                  50%

 MD-1,
                           Conditional use permit required if within
 MD-3
              Ground       300 linear feet or less of a residence;                    50%
                           otherwise, permitted

             Monument      Permitted                                                  70%

  C-2                      Conditional use permit required if within
              Ground       300 linear feet or less of a residence;                    50%
                           otherwise, permitted.

             Monument      Permitted                                                  80%

  C-3                      Conditional use permit required if within
              Ground       300 linear feet or less of a residence;                    50%
                           otherwise, permitted.

             Monument      Permitted                                                 100%

  M-1                      Conditional use permit required if within
              Ground       300 linear feet or less of a residence;                    75%
                           otherwise, permitted.

             Monument      Permitted                                                 100%

  M-2                      Conditional use permit required if within
              Ground       300 linear feet or less of a residence;                    75%
                           otherwise, permitted.

All other
               None        NA                                                          NA
 zones




Table 19.82.135 footnotes:




                                                                                                 Page 301
     1.   The planning commission may approve an increase in the allowable EMC sign size through the
          conditional use process as described in Section 19.82.135E.




19.82.140 - Mobile sign.

     One mobile sign may be used for each use for a period of sixty days following the issuance of a
permit to construct a permanent sign for that use. Upon inspection and approval of the permanent sign, or
upon expiration of the sixty-day period, whichever first occurs, the mobile sign must be removed. Mobile
signs may not employ animation, flashing lights or intermittent lights.




19.82.150 - Traffic hazard prohibited.

      Signs or other advertising structures shall not be erected at the intersection of any streets or
driveways in such manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or at any location where by reason of the
position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal device, or make use of the words "Stop," "Drive-in," "Danger," or any other words,
phrases, symbols or characters in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse vehicle operators.




19.82.160 - Maintenance—Removal of sign.

A.   All signs and advertising structures shall be maintained in good condition.
B.   Signs relating to a product no longer available for purchase, or to a business which has closed or
     moved, shall be removed or the advertising copy removed within thirty days of such unavailability,
     closure or relocation.
C.    Owners of signs or advertising copy not removed within the required thirty days shall be given
     written notice sent by certified mail. If not removed by the owner within the thirty-day period, the sign
     or copy will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the owner.




19.82.170 - Prohibited signs.

     Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter are prohibited. Without restricting or limiting the
provisions of this section, the following signs are specifically prohibited: A-frame, snipe and pedestal
signs.




19.82.180 - Action to remove or abate violation.

A.    The mayorcouncil chair or attorney shall be empowered to institute any appropriate action or
     proceeding in any case where any sign is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,
     converted or maintained, or in any case where any sign is used in violation of any countymetro
     township ordinance, to accomplish the following purposes:
     1.   To prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion,
          maintenance or use;


                                                                                                    Page 302
     2.   To restrain, to correct or abate such violation;
     3.   To abate and remove unsafe or dangerous signs. If an unsafe or dangerous sign is not repaired
          or made safe within ten working days after giving notice as provided in subsection B of this
          section, the building inspector or development services division director may at once abate and
          remove the sign, and the person having charge, control or benefit of any such sign shall pay to
          the countymetro township costs incurred in such removal within thirty calendar days after written
          notice of the costs is mailed to such person.
B.   Notice by the countymetro township shall mean written notice sent by certified mail to persons
     having charge or control or benefit of any sign found by the development services division director to
     be unsafe.




19.82.185 - Off-premises signs—Billboards.

A.   Purpose. This section provides for the reasonable regulation of off-premises signs with the intent of
     enhancing the aesthetics of existing and future billboards, mitigating negative impacts, promoting
     safety and protecting property values that further the goals and planning policies of Salt
     LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township.
B.   Cap on Number of Off-Premises Signs. The number of off-premises signs allowed in unincorporated
     Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township and established or future townships shall be
     limited to the number of off-premises signs that are existing as defined herein as of May 18,
     2004January 1, 2017. This cap shall automatically decrease as off-premises signs are annexed into
     a municipal jurisdiction or removed and not relocated.
C.   Location. Off-premises signs shall be allowed in the C-1 zone as a conditional use. Off-premises
     signs shall be allowed in the C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones as a permitted use.
D.    Size. Off-premises signs shall not exceed six hundred seventy-two square feet in the C-2, C-3, M-1
     and M-2 zones. Off-premises signs located in a C-1 zone shall not exceed three hundred square feet
     in size.
E.    Height. The maximum height of an off-premises sign shall be thirty-five feet in a C-1 zone. The
     maximum height of an off-premises sign shall be forty-five feet above the grade level of the road in
     the C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones or, when oriented for freeway viewing only and located within three
     hundred feet of the nearest freeway lane, twenty-five feet above freeway grade level or fifty feet
     overall, whichever is greater.
F.    Separation. The minimum distance between off-premises signs larger than three hundred square
     feet shall be five hundred lineal feet as measured along the same side of the street including
     intersections. The minimum distance between off-premises signs three hundred square feet or less
     in size shall be three hundred lineal feet as measured along the same side of the street including
     intersections. All off-premises signs must be at least one hundred fifty radial feet from any other off-
     premises sign.
G.    Setbacks. The minimum setback shall be eighteen inches for off-premises signs. The sign's front-
     yard setback shall be measured from the future right-of-way line (see Transportation Improvement
     Plan). The closest edge of an off-premises sign shall not project into any required setback area. The
     minimum setback between an off-premises sign and any residential zone boundary shall be one
     hundred fifty feet.
H.    Lighting. Lighting shall be confined to the sign face, and the lighting source shall not be directly
     visible.
I.   Design. Off-premises signs shall utilize either the "mono-pole" or the "bi-pole" design and shall be
     continually maintained structurally and on the copy face. The back of the sign and the structure
     behind the sign shall be painted a dark color. Tri-vision sign faces shall be permitted and, if


                                                                                                   Page 303
     illuminated, must be externally illuminated. Internally illuminated off-premises signs, electronic
     display (outdoor video advertising) and electronic message centers are only allowed adjacent to the
     interstate freeway system and limited to no more than one change to the copy face in a twenty-four
     hour period. Two-decked off-premises signs are prohibited in all zones.
J.   Credits for Removal. Prior to the removal of any off-premises sign, the owner shall obtain a permit for
     the demolition of the off-premises sign. Permits may be provided following application to the Salt
     Lake County planning and development services division. The Salt Lake County planning and
     development services division shall by letter inform the affected community council chairman and
     affected planning commission chairman that a permit for demolition of an off-premises sign has been
     issued. After any off-premises sign is demolished, the Salt Lake County planning and development
     services division shall create a "billboard bank account" for the sign owner. The account shall reflect
     credits for the off-premises sign square footage as well as the date of removal. Any off-premises sign
     credits not used within thirty-six months of their creation shall expire and be of no further value or
     use. An off-premises sign owner may sell or otherwise transfer off-premises signs and/or billboard
     bank account credits. The transfer of any billboard bank account credits does not extend their thirty-
     six-month life as provided in this section. Demolition of an off-premises sign that has two advertising
     faces shall receive billboard bank account credits for the square footage of each sign face.
K.    Relocation. The owner of an existing off-premises sign may remove an existing off-premises sign
     from any site to an approved location only after a permit for relocation is obtained upon
     substantiation of compliance with this chapter. Prior to approval of a permit for relocation, the sign
     owner (applicant) shall submit to the countyplanning and development services division a notarized
     affidavit signed by the property owner, a copy of the lease agreement or other document to be
     signed by the property owner, indicating at a minimum the duration of the lease and renewal
     provisions. Additionally, prior to approval of a permit for relocation, Salt Lake County planning and
     development services division shall by letter inform the affected community council chairman and
     affected planning commission chairman that application for an off-premises sign permit has been
     received. Off-premises signs moved to approved locations shall conform to all off-premises sign
     requirements of the new location. Off-premises signs moved from one location to another must be
     installed in the new approved location within the period allotted by the International Building Code
     (IBC). A new off-premises sign permit shall only be issued if the applicant has billboard bank account
     credits of a sufficient number of square feet. When the permit for construction of a new off-premises
     sign is issued, the Salt Lake County planning and development services division shall deduct from
     the sign owner's billboard bank account the square footage of the new off-premises sign. If the new
     off-premises sign uses less than the entire available square footage credits, any remaining square
     footage credits shall remain in the sign owner's billboard bank account.
L.   CountyMetro Township Council Review and Monitoring. The countyMetro Township council shall, on
     a regular six-month schedule be updated at a regular public meeting to changes in status and
     effectiveness of the provisions related to off-premises signs in unincorporated Salt LakeEmigration
     Canyon CountyMetro Township.
M.    Severability and Conflict. This section and its various parts are hereby declared to be severable if a
     court of competent jurisdiction declares any subsection, clause, provision or portion of this section
     invalid or unconstitutional. No court decision will affect the validity of either this section as a whole or
     any parts not declared invalid or unconstitutional by that decision. If any part of this section is found
     to be in conflict with any other provision of the countymetro township, the most restrictive or highest
     standard will apply, prevail and govern.




19.82.190 - On-premises signs allowed in zoning districts.

     On-premises signs allowed, by zones, shall be as set out in Table 19.82.190.




                                                                                                       Page 304
                                             Table 19.82.190

                                     SIGNS ALLOWED, BY ZONES


ZONE           SIGN                 SIZE               HEIGHT        LOCATION            OTHER


                                                                                 Sign must be removed 6
                                                                                 months from final
                         32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for                           building or conditional
(1) All                  each 10 ft. of frontage                   On private    use inspection that
          Construction                                 12 ft. max.
zones                    over 30 to a maximum of                   property      allows occupancy or
                         96 sq. ft. per lot                                      when 100% of the
                                                                                 facilities are occupied,
                                                                                 whichever occurs first


                         Construction signs
                         located on the
                         development for
                         subdivisions of 5 lots or                               Signs must be removed
                                                                    On private
                         more, may be 32 sq. ft.      12 ft. max.                within 30 days after the
                                                                    property
                         plus 2 sq. ft. for each                                 last lot is sold
                         additional lot over 5 to a
                         maximum of 128 sq. ft.
                         total per subdivision


                                                                                 All signs must be
                         Signs for subdivisions of                               approved by the
                         5 lots or more and not                                  planning commission for
                         located on the                                          a period not to exceed
                         development may be 32                  On private       one year which may be
                                                    12 ft. max.
                         sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for             property         renewed upon
                         each lot over 5 to a                                    application received at
                         maximum of 64 sq. ft.                                   least 30 days prior to
                         per sign                                                the previous approval
                                                                                 expiration date


                         Construction signs for                                  All signs must be
                         multifamily                                             approved by the
                         developments of more                                    planning commission for
                         than 20 units and not                      On private
                                                      12 ft. max.                a period not to exceed
                                                                    property
                         located on the                                          one year. Approval may
                         development shall not                                   be renewed by the
                         exceed a maximum of                                     planning commission
                         10 ft. vertical and 20 ft.




                                                                                                Page 305
                  horizontal


Nameplate on      3 sq. ft. maximum per                  Attached to
premises          use                                    main structure


                                                         On private
                                                         property and     Shall be removed 15
Political         16 sq. ft. maximum        6 ft. max.   not closer       days following the final
                                                         than 10 ft. to   voting day
                                                         a driveway


Property on-                                             On private
                  6 sq. ft. maximum         6 ft. max.
premises                                                 property


                                            3 ft. when
Service on                                               On private
                  6 sq. ft. maximum         free-
premises                                                 property
                                            standing


                                                                        One sign per street
                                                                        frontage and
                                                                        landscaped
                                                                        appropriately for the
Monument on                                                             site. Allowed with public
premises (see                                                           or quasi-public buildings
                One per lot, 32 sq. ft.                  On private
other zones for                                                         or uses, planned unit
                plus 1 sq. ft. for every 10              property and
specific                                                                developments, golf
                ft. of frontage over 30 ft. 6 ft. max.   set back 6 ft.
requirements                                                            courses, cemeteries,
                to a maximum of 64 sq.                   from property
which                                                                   dwelling groups, day
                ft.                                      lines
supersede these                                                         care/preschool centers,
requirements)                                                           or other uses permitted
                                                                        in the zone or as
                                                                        approved in conjunction
                                                                        with a conditional permit
                                                                        approval


Flat on-                                                                  Allowed with public or
premises (see                                                             quasi-public buildings,
other zones for                                                           planned unit
specific                                                 Attached to a    developments, golf
                5% of a wall area
requirements                                             building         courses, cemeteries,
which                                                                     dwelling groups, or
supersede these                                                           other uses permitted in
requirements)                                                             the zone or as approved
                                                                          in conjunction with a



                                                                                          Page 306
                                                                                   conditional permit
                                                                                   approval

Illumination may be built into or attached onto the signs listed above when:
(1) Lighting is allowed in the specific zone; or
(2) The development occupies more than 500 feet continuous frontage on the street the sign will face
and the sign is not closer than 200 feet to a property not allowed an illuminated sign;
(3) Flat signs that are exposed to dwellings on adjacent properties shall not be illuminated (property
divided by public streets are not adjacent).


                                                                                   Illumination may be built
                                                                                   into or attached onto a
(2) S-
                          One per lot, 32 sq. ft.,                                 sign if the development
1-G,
        Ground or         plus 1 sq. ft. for each 10 20 ft. max.                   occupies more than 500
R-4-
        projecting on-    ft. of frontage over 30 ft. ground     15 ft. setback    ft. continuous frontage
8.5, R-
        premises          on a street but not to      sign                         on a street that the sign
M,
                          exceed 64 sq. ft.                                        will face unless exposed
RMH
                                                                                   to a dwelling on
                                                                                   adjacent property


                                                                                   Signs that are exposed
        Flat on-                                                   Attached to a   to dwellings on adjacent
                          15% of a wall area
        premises                                                   building        properties shall not be
                                                                                   illuminated


        Window on-        8 sq. ft. maximum per                                    Signs shall not be
        premises          use                                                      illuminated


                          One per lot, 32 sq. ft.                                  A monument sign can
                                                                   18-inch
        Monument on-      plus 1 sq. ft. for every 10                              only be utilized if no
                                                      6 ft. max.   minimum
        premises          ft. of frontage over 30 to                               ground or projecting
                                                                   setback
                          a maximum of 64 sq. ft.                                  sign is used


                                                                                   Illumination may be built
                                                                                   into or attached to signs
                          One per lot, 48 sq. ft.                                  unless exposed to a
(3) C- Ground or          plus 1 sq. ft. for each 4                                dwelling on adjacent
1, C-1- projecting on-    ft. of frontage over 30,    25 ft. max. 15 ft. setback   property or a residential
L, C-V premises           but not to exceed 128                                    zone boundary in which
                          sq. ft.                                                  case it may be allowed
                                                                                   with conditional use
                                                                                   approval




                                                                                                  Page 307
        Window on-         12 sq. ft. maximum per
        premises           use


                                                                                         Illumination may be built
                                                                                         into or attached to signs
                                                                                         unless exposed to a
                                                                                         dwelling on adjacent
                                                                                         property or a residential
        Flat or wall on-                                                                 zone boundary in which
                           15% of a wall area
        premises                                                                         case it may be allowed
                                                                                         with conditional use
                                                                                         approval. A flat or wall
                                                                                         sign may only be used if
                                                                                         an awning sign is not
                                                                                         used


        Temporary on-
                                                                                         See Section 19.82.140
        premises


                           One per lot, 32 sq. ft.                                       A monument sign can
                                                                       18-inch
        Monument on-       plus 1 sq. ft. for every 4                                    only be utilized if no
                                                        6 ft. max.     minimum
        premises           ft. of frontage over 30 to                                    ground or projecting
                                                                       setback
                           a maximum of 64 sq. ft.                                       sign is used


                                                                                    Attached to building.
                                                                     8 ft. maximum
                           25% of a wall area may       8 ft. min.                  Primary graphics on
                                                                     projection
                           be covered with an           above the                   face or street side of
        Awning on-                                                   from bldg.
                           awning, and 50% of an        ground 0 ft.                structure. An awning
        premises                                                     May be on
                           awning may be covered        above                       sign may only be used if
                                                                     three walls of
                           with graphics                bldg. wall                  a flat or wall sign is not
                                                                     a building
                                                                                    used


All regulated signs in C-V zones located in canyon areas of the county require conditional use approval.


                           48 sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for                                 Illumination may be built
                           each foot of frontage                                         into or attached to signs
                           over 30 on a street to a                    18-inch           unless exposed to a
       C-2 Ground or       maximum of 256 sq. ft.                      setback, 1        dwelling on adjacent
(4) C-                     Property abutting a                                           property or a residential
       projecting on-                                    30 ft. max.   sign per 300
2, C-3
       premises            freeway with no frontage                    ft. frontage or   zone boundary in which
                           on a dedicated street                       part thereof      case it may be allowed
                           may have one sign as a                                        with conditional use
                           conditional use located                                       approval. Rotation and
                           within 30 ft. of the                                          subdued light change



                                                                                                        Page 308
                 freeway not to exceed                                        may be allowed with
                 256 sq. ft. and the                                          conditional use
                 height shall not exceed                                      approval.
                 25 ft. above freeway
                 grade. A property having
                 frontage on a dedicated
                 street which connects
                 directly to an on or off
                 ramp of I-15 and is
                 within 600 ft. of the main
                 traveled way of I-15 may
                 have one sign up to 60
                 ft. high, but not to
                 exceed 25 ft. above
                 freeway grade level and
                 400 sq. ft.


                 48 sq. ft. plus 11/2 sq. ft.
                 for each foot of frontage
                 over 30 on a street to a
                 maximum of 300 sq. ft.
                 Property abutting a
                 freeway with no frontage
                 on a dedicated street
                                                                              Illumination may be built
                 may have one sign as a
                                                                              into or attached to signs
                 conditional use located
                                                                              unless exposed to a
                 within 30 ft. of the
                                                                              dwelling on adjacent
                 freeway not to exceed
                                                            No setback        property or a residential
                 300 sq. ft. and the
C-3 Ground or                                               required, 1       zone boundary in which
                 height shall not exceed
projecting on-                                30 ft. max.   sign per 300      case it may be allowed
                 25 ft. above freeway
premises                                                    ft. frontage or   with conditional use
                 grade. A property having
                                                            part thereof      approval. Rotation and
                 frontage on a dedicated
                                                                              subdued light change
                 street which connects
                                                                              may be allowed with
                 directly to an on or off
                                                                              conditional use
                 ramp of I-15 and is
                                                                              approval.
                 within 600 ft. of the main
                 traveled way of I-15 may
                 have one sign up to 60
                 ft. high, but not to
                 exceed 25 ft. above
                 freeway grade level and
                 400 sq. ft.


                                                                              Balloon signs are
Balloon on-
                                                                              subject to conditional




                                                                                              Page 309
premises                                                    use approval


                                                            Roof sign may
                                                            substitute for a ground
                                                            or projecting sign but is
                                                            subject to conditional
                                                            use approval. The
                                               10 ft.
Roof on-           Same as ground or                        planning commission
                                               above roof
premises           projecting sign                          may deny a sign or set
                                               max.
                                                            more restrictive
                                                            conditions. Signs shall
                                                            be installed so that the
                                                            support structure is not
                                                            visible


Window on-         16 sq. ft. maximum per
premises           use


                                                            Maximum of 1 sign per
                                                            street front, permanently
                                                            anchored to the ground,
                                                            and subject to
                                               Maximum
                                                            conditional use
                                               ht. equals
                   1 sq. ft. for each linear                approval. Illumination
Promotional                                    the sign
                   ft. of frontage to a                     may be built into or
sign boards on-                                setback,
                   maximum of 20 sq. ft.                    attached to signs unless
premises                                       but not
                   per sign                                 exposed to a dwelling
                                               more than
                                                            on adjacent property or
                                               10 ft.
                                                            a residential zone
                                                            boundary in which case
                                                            it may be allowed with
                                                            conditional use approval


                                                            Illumination may be built
                                                            into or attached to signs
                                                            unless exposed to a
                                                            dwelling on adjacent
Flat or wall on-                                            property or a residential
                   20% of a wall area
premises                                                    zone boundary in which
                                                            case it may be allowed
                                                            with conditional use
                                                            approval. A flat or wall
                                                            sign may only be used if
                                                            an awning sign is not




                                                                            Page 310
                                                                                       used


       Temporary on-
                                                                                       See Section 19.82.140
       premises


                                                                     18-inch
                        32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for                minimum           A monument sign can
       Monument on-     every 4 ft. of frontage                      setback, 1        be utilized in lieu of a
                                                      6 ft. max.
       premises         over 30 on a street to a                     sign per 300      ground or projecting
                        maximum of 64 sq. ft.                        ft. frontage or   sign
                                                                     part thereof


                                                                  8 ft. maximum
                                                                  projection    Attached to building.
                        25% of a wall area may       8 ft. min.   from bldg.    Primary graphics on
                        be covered with an           above the Must be on       face or street side of
       Awning on-
                        awning, and 50% of an        ground 0 ft. private       structure. An awning
       premises
                        awning may be covered        above        property. May sign may only be used if
                        with graphics                bldg. wall   be on three   a flat or wall sign is not
                                                                  walls of a    used
                                                                  building


                        48 sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for
                        each foot of frontage
                        over 30 on a street to a
                        maximum of 256 sq. ft.
                        A property having
                        frontage on a dedicated
                        street which connects                        15 ft. setback,
       Ground or
(5) M-                  directly to an on or off                     1 sign per 300 Illumination may be built
       projecting on-                                 35. ft. max.
1, M-2                  ramp of I-15 and is                          ft. frontage or into or attached to sign.
       premises
                        within 600 ft. of the main                   part thereof
                        traveled way of I-15 may
                        have one sign up to 60
                        ft. high, but not to
                        exceed 25 ft. above
                        freeway grade level and
                        400 sq. ft.


                                                                                       Balloon signs are
       Balloon on-
                                                                                       subject to conditional
       premises
                                                                                       use approval


       Roof on-         Same as ground or            10 ft.                            Roof sign may



                                                                                                       Page 311
        premises            projecting sign              above roof                      substitute for a ground
                                                         max.                            or projecting sign but is
                                                                                         subject to conditional
                                                                                         use approval. The
                                                                                         planning commission
                                                                                         may deny a sign or set
                                                                                         more restrictive
                                                                                         conditions. Signs shall
                                                                                         be installed so that the
                                                                                         support structure is not
                                                                                         visible


        Window on-          16. sq. ft. maximum per
        premises            use


                                                                                         A flat or wall sign may
        Flat or wall on-
                            20% of a wall area                                           only be used if an
        premises
                                                                                         awning sign is not used


        Temporary on-
                                                                                         See Section 19.82.140
        premises


                                                                       18-inch
                            32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for              minimum           A monument sign can
        Monument on-        every 4 ft. of frontage                    setback, 1        be utilized in lieu of a
                                                          6 ft. max.
        premises            over 30 on a street to a                   sign per 300      ground or projecting
                            maximum of 64 sq. ft.                      ft. frontage or   sign
                                                                       part thereof


                                                                                     Attached to building.
                                                                      8 ft. maximum
                            25% of a wall area may       8 ft. min.                  Primary graphics on
                                                                      projection
                            be covered with an           above the                   face or street side of
        Awning on-                                                    from bldg.
                            awning, and 50% of an        ground 0 ft.                structure. An awning
        premises                                                      May be on
                            awning may be covered        above                       sign may only be used if
                                                                      three walls of
                            with graphics                bldg. wall                  a flat or wall sign is not
                                                                      a building
                                                                                     used


       Same as
                                                                                         All regulated signs
(6) F- Section (3) of
                                                                                         require conditional use
R, F-M this table for C-1
                                                                                         approval
       and CV




                                                                                                         Page 312
                                                                                   Illumination excluding
                                                                                   luminous tubes may be
(7)                                                                                built into or attached to
MD-1, Flat on-                                                                     signs. Sign design shall
                      5% of a wall area
(7 (7) premises                                                                    reflect the architectural
MD-3                                                                               design scheme of the
                                                                                   project. All signs require
                                                                                   conditional use approval


                                                                                   Illumination excluding
                                                                 18 inch           luminous tubes may be
                      32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for              minimum           built into or attached to
       Monument on-   every 4 ft. of frontage                    setback, 1        signs. Sign design shall
                                                    6 ft. max.
       premises       over 30 on a street to a                   sign per 300      reflect the architectural
                      maximum of 64 sq. ft.                      ft. frontage or   design scheme of the
                                                                 part thereof      project. All signs require
                                                                                   conditional use approval


                                                                                   Illumination excluding
                                                                                   exposed neon or lighted
                                                                 25 ft.
                                                                                   accent stripes may be
                      32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for              minimum
                                                                                   built into or attached to
(8) O- Monument on-   every 4 ft. of frontage                    setback, 1
                                                    6 ft. max.                     signs. Sign design shall
 R-D premises         over 30 on a street to a                   sign per 300
                                                                                   reflect the architectural
                      maximum of 64 sq. ft.                      ft. frontage or
                                                                                   design scheme of the
                                                                 part thereof
                                                                                   project. All signs require
                                                                                   conditional use approval


                                                                                Illumination excluding
                                                                                exposed neon or lighted
                                                                                accent stripes may be
                                                   Not higher                   built into or attached to
                                                   than 15 ft.                  signs. Signs that are
                                                                 Attached to
                                                   above the                    exposed to dwellings on
       Flat on-       5% of a wall area which                    the wall of a
                                                   finished                     adjacent properties shall
       premises       faces a street                             building which
                                                   grade of                     not be illuminated. Sign
                                                                 faces a street
                                                   the                          design shall reflect the
                                                   building                     architectural design
                                                                                scheme of the project.
                                                                                All signs require
                                                                                conditional use approval




Chapter 19.83 - WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES



                                                                                                   Page 313
19.83.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to establish general requirements for the siting of wireless
telecommunications facilities. The intent of this chapter is to:
     A.   Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
     B.   Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout the community;
     C.   Encourage the joint use of new and existing communication sites;
     D.   Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the adverse impact on the community is
          minimal;
     E.   Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to minimize adverse visual impact;
     F.   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication services to provide such services to
          the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently.




19.83.020 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter:
     "Antenna" means a transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that radiates or
captures radio signals.
     "Lattice tower" means a self-supporting multiple sided, open steel frame structure used to support
telecommunications equipment.
      "Monopole facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a single
cylindrical pole. Also includes associated equipment. For the purposes of this chapter, if a facility does not
fit the definition of a roof or wall mounted facility it shall be considered a monopole facility.
     "Roof mounted facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a flat or
pitched roof, mechanical room or penthouse of a building or structure. Also includes associated
equipment.
     "Stealth facility" means a wall, roof, or monopole facility which is disguised as another object or
otherwise concealed from view. Examples of stealth facilities include, but are not limited to, trees,
synthetic rocks, or architectural elements such as dormers, steeples, and chimneys.
      "Wall mounted facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted against the
vertical wall of a building or structure. Also includes associated equipment.
     "Wireless telecommunications facility" means an unmanned structure which consists of equipment
used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice or data through radio wave or wireless
transmissions. Such sites typically require the construction of transmission support structures to which
antenna equipment is attached.




19.83.030 - Applicability.

     The requirements of this chapter apply to both commercial and private wireless telecommunications
services such as "cellular" or "PCS" (personal communications services) communications and paging
systems. All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and all other ordinances of the



                                                                                                    Page 314
countymetro township and any pertinent regulations of the Federal Communications Commission and the
Federal Aviation Administration.




19.83.040 - General plan required.

     A site location general plan shall be submitted by each company desiring placement of wireless
telecommunication facilities. The general plan shall be submitted to the planning commission and
development services division prior to processing any permits for permitted or conditional use locations.
The general plan shall include inventory of existing and anticipated sites for the unincorporated
countymetro township and within one-half mile of the unincorporated countymetro township boundary.
The plan shall indicate area coverage, if known, location, antenna height above existing grade, and
antenna type for each site and be updated upon request from the planning commission. Every general
plan shall be considered proprietary information and not be part of the public record.




19.83.050 - Allowable uses.

      The uses specified in Table 19.83.050 are allowed provided that they comply with all requirements of
this chapter.




                                            TABLE 19.83.050

    P—Permitted Use                          C—Conditional Use                         N- Not allowed

          Zones                Wall Mount         Roof Mount         Monopole          Lattice Tower

           F-1                   P1, C2             P1, C2               C                   N

         All FMs                 P1, C2             P1, C2               C                   N

         All FRs                 P1, C2             P1, C2               C                   N

         All R-1s                P3, CS             P3, CS            C3, CS                 N

         All R-2s                P3, CS             P3, CS            C3, CS                 N

         R-4-8.5                 P3, CS             P3, CS            C3, CS                 N

          S-1-G                  P1, C2             P1, C2               C                   N

           R-M                       P                 P                 C                   N




                                                                                                 Page 315
          O-R-D                      P                  P                 C                    N

           RMH                       N                  N                 N                    N

          All As                  P1, C2             P1, C2               C                    N

          All FAs                 P1, C2             P1, C2               C                    N

         All MDs                  P1, C2             P1, C2               C                    N

      C-1, C-2, C-3                  P                  P                 C                    N

              C-V                 P1, C2             P1, C2               C                    N

          All Ms                     P                  P               P4, C                  N




1—Permitted use only on nonresidential buildings.
2—Conditional use on residential buildings.
3—Allowed only in conjunction with public or quasi-public uses (see Sections 19.04.440 and 19.04.445).
4—Permitted use if not within 300 feet of a residential zone boundary.
S—Stealth facilities are conditional uses and not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses.

19.83.060 - Facility types and standards.

     Wireless telecommunications facilities are characterized by the type and location of the antenna
structure. There are four general types of antenna structures: wall mounted; roof mounted; monopoles;
and lattice towers. Standards for the installation of each type of antenna are as follows:
    A.   Wall Mounted Antenna. The following provisions apply to wall mounted antennas: (see Figure
         1)
         1.     Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of the building or structure or
                extend more than four feet horizontally from the face of the building or structure.
         2.     Antennas, equipment and the supporting structure shall be painted to match the color of
                the building or structure or the background against which they are most commonly seen.
                Antennas and the supporting structures on buildings should be architecturally compatible
                with the building.
         3.      Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses, or mechanical
                equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above the roofline of such
                structures, shall be considered a wall mounted antenna.
         4.      Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from the
                provisions of this section as determined by development services for permitted uses and
                the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth wall mounted antennas are not
                required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in all R-l, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones
                (see Table 19.83.050).
    B.   Roof Mounted Antenna. The following provisions apply to roof mounted antennas: (see Figures
         2 and 3)


                                                                                                   Page 316
     1.   Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing penthouses or mechanical
          equipment rooms provided the antennas and antenna mounting structures shall not extend
          more than eight feet above the existing roofline of the penthouse or mechanical equipment
          room.
     2.   For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment room and on a flat
          roof:
          a.   Setback. The antennas shall be mounted at least five feet from the exterior wall or
               parapet wall of a building or structure.
          b.   Height. The height shall be measured from the top of the antenna to the roofline of the
               building or structure, or to the top of the parapet wall if a parapet wall exists. For
               antennas mounted between five and fourteen feet from the exterior wall or parapet
               wall, the maximum height of the antenna is equal to the distance the antenna is set
               back from the exterior wall or parapet wall. For antennas setback more than fourteen
               feet the maximum height shall be fourteen feet. Antennas extending more than
               nineteen feet above the roofline require conditional use approval (see Figure 2).
          c.   Roof-mounted antennas extending above the roofline of any penthouse or mechanical
               equipment room require conditional use approval.
     3.   Roof mounted antennas on a pitched roof shall be allowed provided the antennas and
          antenna support structures do not extend higher than the peak of the roof measured by a
          horizontal line from the peak extending over the roof (see Figure 3).
     4.   Roof mounted antennas shall be constructed and/or colored to match the surroundings in
          which they are located.
     5.   Stealth roof mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from the
          provisions of this section as determined by development services division for permitted
          uses and the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth roof mounted antennas are
          not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5
          zones (see Table 19.83.050).
C.   Monopole. The following provisions apply to monopoles:
     1.   The height limit for monopoles is sixty feet except the planning commission may allow a
          monopole up to eighty feet in the C-2, C-3, M-1, and M-2 zones if it finds: (1) that the
          monopole will blend in with surrounding structures, poles, or trees and is compatible with
          surrounding uses, (2) the monopole will be available for co-location with other companies,
          and (3) the monopole will be setback at least three hundred feet from any residential zone
          boundary. The height shall be measured from the top of the structure including antennas,
          to the original grade directly adjacent to the monopole.
     2.   In all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones, monopoles will only be allowed in conjunction with an
          existing public or quasi-public use. Public and quasi-public uses, as defined in Sections
          19.04.440 and 19.04.450, include but are not limited to churches, schools, utilities, and
          parks.
     3.   No monopoles shall be allowed in the front yard setback of any lot.
     4.   Monopoles shall be setback from any residential structure a distance equal to its height.
     5.   Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from the provisions
          of this section as determined by development services division for permitted uses and the
          planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth monopoles are not required to be
          located with public or quasi-public uses in all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table
          19.83.050).
D.   Lattice Tower. Lattice towers are not allowed.




                                                                                             Page 317
19.83.070 - Color.

     Monopoles, antennas, and any associated buildings or equipment shall be painted to blend with the
surroundings which they are most commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a case-by-case
basis by the planning commission for conditional uses and development services division for permitted
uses. Within six months after the facility has been constructed, the planning commission or the
development services division may require the color be changed if it is determined that the original color
does not blend with the surroundings.




19.83.080 - Sites in the foothills and canyons.

   For the purpose of this chapter the foothills and canyons are defined as the areas shown on the
maps in the document entitled "Salt Lake County Foothill and Canyon Development Standards."
     A.   Any grading for telecommunication facilities, including access roads and trenching for utilities,
          shall comply with the Uniform Building Code. Telecommunication facilities in the foothills and
          canyons shall comply with the FR zone requirements for grading (Section 19.12.100), natural
          vegetation (Section 19.12.110) and utilities (Section 19.12.120). Everything possible should be
          done to minimize disturbance of the natural environment.
     B.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structures is required for all sites in the
          foothills and canyons. The simulation shall show all structures including but not limited to
          monopoles, antennas, and equipment buildings.
     C.   Everything possible should be done to minimize disturbance of the visual environment. Site
          placement and color should be carefully considered to blend in with the surroundings.
     D.   Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for the monopole.




19.83.090 - Additional requirements.

     The following shall be considered by the planning commission for conditional uses:
     A.   Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing buildings and utility
          structures.
     B.    Location of the antenna on other existing structures in the same vicinity such as other
          monopoles, buildings, water towers, utility poles, athletic field lights, parking lot lights, etc.
          where possible without significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception.
     C.   Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation, topography including ridge lines, and
          buildings to obtain the best visual screening.
     D.   Spacing between monopoles which creates detrimental impacts to adjoining properties.
     E.    Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk, landscaping, and fencing as per
          Sections 19.76.210 and 19.84.050.




19.83.100 - Accessory buildings.




                                                                                                   Page 318
     Accessory buildings to antenna structures must comply with the required setback, height and
landscaping requirements of the zoning district in which they are located. All utility lines on the lot leading
to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.




19.83.110 - Non-maintained or abandoned facilities.

       The building official may require each non-maintained or abandoned telecommunications facility to
be removed from the building or premise when such a facility has not been repaired or put into use by the
owner or agent within ninety calendar days after notice of non-maintenance or abandonment is given to
the owner or agent. The applicant shall post a site specific bond when a permit is issued to guarantee
removal of the facility and site restoration. The type of bond and amount shall be determined upon review
by countyplanning and development services staff. No bond shall be required for roof or wall mounted
facilities.




19.83.120 - Building permit required.

     A building permit from the development services division is required for all wireless
telecommunication facilities including, but not limited to, monopoles, and roof and wall mounted antennas.




19.83.130 - Illustrations.

    The illustrations, Figures 1, 2, and 3, are intended to demonstrate graphically the intent of this
chapter.




                                                                                                     Page 319
Page 320
Page 321
Page 322
Chapter 19.84 - CONDITIONAL USES



19.84.010 - Purpose.

      The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a reasonable application, review, and approval process
for land uses that are specified as "conditional," such that proposed new land uses meet countymetro
township standards and are properly integrated into the community and that those that appear to violate
countymetro township standards are effectively mitigated or prohibited. Conditional uses shall be
approved on a case-by-case basis provided the applicant adequately demonstrates that negative impacts
of the use can be mitigated through the imposition of reasonable conditions of approval.




19.84.020 - Conditional use permit required when.

     A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in the district
regulations or elsewhere in this title.




19.84.030 - Application requirements—Fee.

     Only when the following elements are satisfied is a conditional use application deemed complete:
     A.   Application for a conditional use permit shall be made by the property owner or certified agent
          thereof in writing upon the form(s) designated by the director or director's designee.
     B.   Accompanying Documents. Detailed site plans and specifications drawn to scale, unless waived
          by the director or director's designee, shall be submitted with the application.
     C.    Fee. The initial application fee for any conditional use permit, as provided for in Section
          3.52.040 of this code, shall be paid. The payment of a partial application fee, or the submittal of
          plans for a pre-submittal review, does not constitute a complete application.




19.84.040 - Application review.

A.   The director or the director's designee shall administer an application review procedure in which the
     proposed use and the proposed site development plan are evaluated for compliance with all
     applicable ordinances and codes and for anticipated detrimental effects.
B.   The application review procedure shall contain the following components:
     1.   Referral of the application to all affected entities;
     2.   A review of the proposed site plan for compliance with applicable sections of the zoning
          ordinance;
     3.   A review of the proposed use and site plan to ascertain potential negative impacts and whether
          reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate those impacts.
C.   The application review procedure may include the following:
     1.   Referral of the application to government or regulating entities for recommendations;




                                                                                                   Page 323
     2.   A pre-application meeting, in which preliminary site plans are reviewed and discussed prior to
          finished plans being submitted for review;
     3.   An on-site review of the proposal by the director, director's designee or staff;
     4.   A requirement that the applicant submit impact studies or other technical studies regarding
          grading, drainage, traffic, geologic hazards, etc.
D.    The director, director's designee or staff shall present a review, summary and recommendation to
     the planning commission after having provided the applicant with a copy as required by state law.
     The recommendation shall remain part of the public record.




19.84.050 - Approval/denial authority.

     The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional
use applications.
     A.   Planning Commission Approval.
          1.   The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a
               public meeting.
          2.   The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the
               public meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the
               recommendation of the director or director's designee, and input from interested parties
               and affected entities.
          3.   If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval
               letter upon satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
          4.   If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
               commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may
               be granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
          5.   A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application
               within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is
               authorized to review and take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040
               after having notified the applicant of the meeting date.
          6.   Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning
               commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in
               Section 19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.
     B.   Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
          1.   Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is
               proposed for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section
               19.84.060; or
          2.   Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the
               manner and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated
               with the imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards
               outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
          3.   Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with
               the imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the
               standards outlined in Section 19.84.060.




                                                                                                   Page 324
19.84.060 - Standards for approval.

    Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be found to
conform to the following standards:
     A.   The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning
          ordinance, including parking, building setbacks, and building height.
     B.   The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws and
          ordinances.
     C.   The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to
          poor site design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the
          amounts called for under the countymetro township transportation master plan.
     D.   The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of
          persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety
          of residents or properties in the vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire
          safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions, liquifaction potential, site grading/topography,
          storm drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental health hazards, or wetlands.
     E.    The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the
          vicinity of the site through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale,
          height, or noncompliance with community general plan standards.




19.84.075 - Graffiti preventative materials or design.

A.   Whenever the planning commission determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that graffiti will
     be placed on the surfaces of proposed improvements it shall require, as part of the conditional use
     approval, that the applicant apply an anti-graffiti material, approved by the development services
     division, to each of the surfaces to be constructed. The anti-graffiti material shall be used on surfaces
     from ground level to a height of nine feet. The planning commission may approve dense planting or
     appropriate design measures in place of anti-graffiti materials.
B.   Whenever the planning commission becomes aware of graffiti having been placed on any surfaces
     constructed as part of development approved as a conditional use, it may require that the applicant
     or his/her successor in interest apply an anti-graffiti material to such surfaces where no such material
     was previously required.




19.84.080 - Appeals.

      Any adversely affected person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing officer any
decision rendered by the planning commission, the director or director's designee by filing in writing,
stating the reasons for the appeal with the land use hearing officer, within ten days following the date
upon which the decision is made. Appeals to the land use hearing officer shall comply with the following
procedures:
     A.    Upon scheduling a hearing date, the land use hearing officer shall notify the planning
          commission coordinator at least two weeks prior to the hearing to allow preparation of the
          record.
     B.   The planning commission coordinator shall prepare a copy of the record of the proceedings and
          decision being appealed for presentation to the land use hearing officer.




                                                                                                      Page 325
     C.    The hearing officer shall review the record, and may not accept or consider any evidence
          outside the record unless the evidence was offered to and was excluded by the planning
          commission, the director or director's designee and the hearing officer determines that it was
          improperly excluded.
     D.    The land use hearing officer shall review the planning commission's or the development
          services division's actions to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.
     E.   The filing of an appeal does not automatically stay the decision; however, the land use hearing
          officer has the authority to stay the decision while the appeal is pending.
     F.   After review of the record and written and oral argument on both sides, the hearing officer may
          affirm, reverse, alter, or remand to the planning commission, the director or director's designee
          for further review and consideration the action taken by the planning commission, the director or
          director's designee.




19.84.095 - Preliminary and final approval of conditional use applications.

A.    Unless otherwise designated, a decision approving a conditional use application shall be a
     preliminary approval of the application.
B.    Except as specified in subsection C of this section, the planning and development services director
     is authorized to grant final approval of conditional use applications after all of the conditions and
     requirements of the preliminary approval which are necessary for the final approval have been met.
     Final approval of a conditional use application shall be in the form of a letter to the applicant which,
     together with the approved site plan if required, shall constitute the conditional use permit.
C.   The planning commission may require as a condition of preliminary approval that a conditional use
     application be brought before the planning commission for consideration of final approval.




19.84.100 - Revocation of conditional use permits.

      A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a finding of failure to
comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or for any violation of this title occurring on the
site for which the permit was approved. Prior to taking action concerning revocation of a conditional use
permit, a hearing shall be held by the planning commission. Notice of the hearing and the grounds for
consideration of revocation shall be mailed to the permittee at least ten days prior to the hearing.




19.84.110 - Hearing officer.

      The planning commission may appoint, with the concurrence of the countymetro township
mayorcouncil chair, a hearing officer or officers to make recommendations to the planning commission as
to whether cause exists for the planning commission to consider revoking any conditional use permit.
Prior to making any recommendation to the planning commission, an evidentiary hearing shall be
conducted by the hearing officer to determine whether the permittee has failed to comply with the terms
and conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated any provision of the zoning ordinance
occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. The hearing officer shall notify the planning
commission if any violations have been corrected by the permittee prior to the issuance of the hearing
officer's recommendations.




                                                                                                     Page 326
19.84.120 - Inspection.

     Following the issuance of a conditional use permit by the planning commission the building official
shall approve an application for a building permit pursuant to Chapter 19.94 of this title and shall ensure
that development is undertaken and completed in compliance with the permits.




Chapter 19.85 - HOME BUSINESS



19.85.010 - Subject and definition.

A.   "Home business" shall mean any business activity, other than those listed below, which is conducted
     entirely within a dwelling or attached garage and is clearly incidental, secondary and in addition to
     the use of the structure for dwelling purposes. The purpose of the home business chapter is to allow
     the use of a portion of a home by one of its residents for business purposes, while establishing
     standards to ensure that the business use of the home will not adversely impact the residential
     character of the neighborhood in which the home business is located.
B.   "Home business" shall not include the following business activities taking place at the home:
     1.    Motor vehicle, trailer or boat repair;
     2.    Any use involving the storage or sale of inflammable, explosive or hazardous materials;
     3.    Junkyards;
     4.    Mortuaries or crematoriums;
     5.    Sexually oriented businesses;
     6.    Lawn mower or small engine repair;
     7.    Auto body and/or fender work;
     8.    Towing operations;
     9.    Vehicle sales or rentals;
     10.    Welding, iron works, foundries;
     11.    Major appliance repair (washers, dryers, refrigerators, etc.).
C.   Uses that are listed as permitted or conditional uses in residential zones and are specifically defined
     under Chapter 19.04 are subject to a conditional or permitted use approval process, but are not
     subject to regulation under this chapter. Such uses include, but are not limited to, short-term rentals,
     home daycare, home preschools, uses involving the raising, breeding, training, housing, keeping or
     care of animals, residential health care, residential facilities for elderly or disabled persons, bed and
     breakfast inn or homestay, boarding houses, etc.
D.   The following activities are exempted from regulation under this chapter:
     1.    Garage or yard sales; provided the sale is held for not more than three consecutive days, and
           no more than two times per year at the same location, and no consignment goods are offered
           for sale;
     2.    Temporary social gathering sales that do not exceed one day, such as candle parties, book
           parties, etc. not to exceed four occurrences per year.



                                                                                                    Page 327
19.85.020 - Standards.

    The following standards shall apply to home businesses:
    A.   The primary use of the dwelling must be residential.
    B.   The person operating the business must reside in the dwelling on a full-time basis (at least nine
         months per year).
    C.   For lots which front on a right of way less than eighty feet wide, only the business operator and
         his/her immediate family members who reside in the home shall be employed or do any work,
         whether compensated or not, in conjunction with the business. For lots which front on a right of
         way of eighty feet or greater, one additional non-resident employee is allowed.
    D.   Customers shall be allowed at the residence only if scheduled on an appointment basis, and
         are only allowed between the hours of seven a.m. and ten p.m. Group lessons or sessions shall
         not exceed six people at a time.
    E.   No exterior remodeling shall take place that would change the residential appearance of the
         home.
    F.   Interior structural alterations made to the home are allowed only if they are consistent with its
         primary use as a dwelling.
    G.   All business activities must take place within the dwelling and/or attached garage and shall not
         occupy more than twenty-five percent or more than five hundred square feet (whichever is less)
         of the floor area of the home.
    H.   The storage or display of supplies, inventory, equipment or materials in any portion of the yard
         or within a detached accessory building is prohibited.
    I.   Only those tools, equipment, or electric apparatus that are commonly used as accessories to or
         in conjunction with residential uses are allowed to be used as part of the home business.
    J.   Home businesses must be conducted in such a manner as not to emit or create excessive
         odors, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, sounds, noises, vibrations or interference with
         radio and/or television reception.
    K.    In addition to the parking spaces required for the residents of the dwelling, parking for
         customers and for an employee, if allowed under subsection (D) above, must be provided in the
         driveway or garage.
    L.   Only a three square foot, non-illuminated nameplate sign is allowed. The nameplate sign must
         be attached to a wall or window of the dwelling.
    M.    No vehicle larger than a passenger car or van or one ton pickup truck is allowed to be brought
         to, parked on, or stored on the property in conjunction with a home business.
    N.   If the applicant for a home business is not the property owner, the applicant must obtain written
         authorization of the property owner or manager to apply.
    O.    The property address (house number) must be clearly posted on the home using letters at least
         four inches in height in a contrasting color to the building.
    P.   The condition of the dwelling and landscaped areas shall be well maintained.




19.85.030 - Regulations and enforcement.




                                                                                                Page 328
A.    An application for home business must be submitted to the planning and development services
     division of Salt Lake County for review, and must be accompanied by the application fee listed in
     Section 3.52.080. Upon finding that the applicant understands and agrees to comply with the
     standards set forth in Section 19.85.020, the application shall be approved.
B.   All home businesses are required to obtain a Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township
     business license. The business license must be renewed each year that the home business is in
     operation.
C.    Violations of the standards set forth in Section 19.85.020 shall be subject to the civil penalties
     outlined in Section 19.94.070. In addition, a business license revocation hearing may be scheduled
     at the discretion of the division director of planning and development services for any business found
     to be in violation of the home business standards or of any other countymetro township ordinance.
D.   The business owner is responsible for complying with all applicable health, fire, building and safety
     codes.
E.    All home businesses shall be reviewed for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
     approved under the application process mentioned above. For the purposes of this chapter, a
     change of business ownership and/or relocation to a new address is considered a new business, and
     requires separate approval.




Chapter 19.86 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION



19.86.010 - Purpose.

     This chapter is enacted to preserve sites with special historical, architectural or aesthetic value which
are unique and irreplaceable assets. To accomplish this purpose, planning commission approval is
required for all modifications to historical sites.




19.86.020 - Historic sites designated.

A.    Existing Sites. Each of tThe following structures and sites in the unincorporated area of the
     countymetro township is a historic site:
     1.    Little Dell Station, Mountain Dell Canyon.
     2.    Granite Paper Mill, 6900 South Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, Salt Lake City.
     3.    Henry J. Wheeler Farm, 6343 South 900 East, Salt Lake City.
     4.    David Bronson Brinton Home, 1981 East 4900 South, Holladay.
     5.    Santa Anna Casto Home, 2731 Casto Lane, Salt Lake City.
     6.    Gardner Home and Mill Site, 1475 Murphy's Lane, Salt Lake City.
     7.    Edward Pugh Home, 1299 East 4500 South, Salt Lake City.
     8.    Butler House, 1045 East 4500 South, Salt Lake City, Eff. 9-28-79.
     9.    William J. Bowthorpe Home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
     10.    William H. Walter Home, 2683 Hillsden Drive, Salt Lake City.
     11.    George Boyes Home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Salt Lake City.


                                                                                                    Page 329
     12.    Frank Dilworth Brinton Home, 4880 Highland Circle, Salt Lake City.
     13.    Mountain View Train Station, 6211 Emigration Canyon Road, Salt Lake City.
     14.    Butler School Teachers Dormitory, 2680 East Fort Union Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
     15.    Fabian/Tyler Home, 1130 East Vine Street, Salt Lake City.
     16.    Jacob Heber Griffiths Farmstead, 525 East Fort Union Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
     17.    Mill Creek Farm House, 1106 East 4500 South, Millcreek Township.
B.    Amendments. The countymetro township council may designate historic sites and structures after
     receiving a recommendation from the Historic Preservation Commission/Planning Commission in
     accordance with section 2.88.030 andamend the above list of historic sites and structures, including
     designating additional historic sites subject to the amendment procedures in Chapter 19.90 of this
     code.




19.86.030 - Conditional use permit required.

A.   A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site or structure, including
     modifications to the landscaping, fencing or appearance of any lot, or demolition, construction,
     alteration, relocation, improvement or conversion of a historic site.
B.   Applications for a conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made in the manner and subject
     to the procedures and requirements set forth in Chapters 19.78 and 19.84 of this title. To the extent
     that the requirements of this chapter and Chapters 19.78 and 19.84 are inconsistent, the
     requirements of this chapter shall prevail.




19.86.040 - Noncomplying conditional uses.

     The planning commission shall not approve a conditional use for a historic site which would be
contrary to the purposes of this chapter by adversely affecting the architectural significance, the historical
appearance, or the educational and historical value of the site unless all the following conditions have
been met:
     A.    The application meets the requirements for a conditional use permit set forth in Chapters 19.78
           and 19.84;
     B.    The application meets all the requirements of the base zone in which the property is located;
     C.    The application has been pending before the planning commission for a period of at least one
           year.




19.86.050 - Site modification.

     The planning commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height and other requirements
of the base zone, as necessary to fulfill the purpose of this chapter. In so doing, the nature and character
of adjacent properties shall be considered to ensure that the health, safety, convenience and general
welfare will not be impaired. The planning commission may establish development criteria to control
impacts associated with the heaviest permitted use in the base zone, including, but not limited to, noise,
glare, dust or odor.




                                                                                                    Page 330
19.86.060 - Additional uses for historic sites.

A.    Residential, Forestry and Agricultural Zones. The planning commission may approve any of the
     following uses for a historic site in addition to the permitted and conditional uses allowed in the
     agricultural, forestry or residential zone in which the site is located:
     1.    Antique shop;
     2.    Art shop;
     3.    Boardinghouse;
     4.    Child nursery;
     5.    Dental office or clinic;
     6.    Dwelling, single, two, three, four or multiple-family;
     7.    Nursing home;
     8.    Office;
     9.    Private educational institution;
     10.    Reception centers;
     11.    Restaurant;
     12.    Other uses of similar intensity to the above.
B.   Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. The planning commission may approve any use listed in the
     commercial and manufacturing zones of the countymetro township zoning ordinance for a historic
     site located in a commercial or manufacturing zone.




19.86.070 - Interpretation of chapter.

    This chapter does not guarantee the right of any person, firm or corporation to any provision of this
chapter.




Chapter 19.87 - RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY



19.87.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to balance local zoning considerations with state and federal
mandates requiring a reasonable accommodation for disabled persons living together in a group housing
arrangement in a residential neighborhood.




19.87.020 - Scope.




                                                                                               Page 331
     The requirements of this chapter apply to any facility, residence, group home or other congregate
housing arrangement for persons with a disability notwithstanding any conflicting provision in this title or
any other section of this Code of Ordinances.




19.87.030 - Definitions.

     "Disability" is defined in 19.04.168, "family" in 19.04.230, and "residential facility for persons with a
disability" in 19.04.452 of this title.




19.87.040 - Licensing for residential facilities.

     The licensing requirements for "residential treatment programs" and "residential support programs"
are defined and administered pursuant to state law and the Utah Administrative Code.




19.87.050 - Uses.

A.   No Permit Required. Four or less unrelated individuals who share housekeeping responsibilities in a
     single dwelling do not require a zoning permit but function as a "family," defined in Section 19.04.230
     of this title as "one to four unrelated people living together in a single dwelling."
B.   The director of planning and zoning ("the director"), with the assistance of the district attorney, shall
     consider requests for a permitted use/reasonable accommodation for a "residential facility for
     persons with a disability" ("facility"). The director or the director's designee shall approve a proper
     application for a zoning permit for the facility in any zone, including residential zones where only
     single family dwellings are a permitted use, provided:
     1.   The facility meets or will meet all program, physical facility, and licensure requirements of the
          state department of human services or department of health.
     2.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, buildings and uses shall meet all applicable
          countymetro township development standards, licensing and zoning requirements.
     3.   The facility shall not house persons who are involuntarily residing therein or who are residing
          therein as a part of or in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional facility.
     4.   The applicant provides sufficient evidence that the requested accommodation is necessary to
          allow disabled individuals reasonable, non-discriminatory, federally mandated housing
          opportunities in the relevant zone. Evidence may include information relating to the history,
          management, financial feasibility, and therapeutic benefits of the facility, and applicable law.
C.    The director or the director's designee may not deny the application based upon reasonably
     anticipated detrimental effects to the community so long as reasonable conditions are proposed to
     mitigate such anticipated detrimental effects.
D.   Institutional Uses. Consistent with the International Building Code, residential facilities designed to
     house more than sixteen individuals constitute "institutional facilities" likely to create a fundamental
     change in the character of a single family residential neighborhood. The only residential zone where
     an application for a conditional use permit for an institution serving more than sixteen residents may
     be approved is in a zone that allows apartments as a conditional or permitted use.




                                                                                                        Page 332
19.87.060 - Termination.

    A use permitted by this chapter is nontransferable and shall be subject to revocation by the
appropriate land use or licensing authority if:
     A.   The facility is devoted to a use other than a residential facility for persons with a disability, or
     B.   The facility exceeds the maximum number of residents specified and approved in the original
          application, changes the disability classification under state rules, or remodels or expands
          without first receiving approval from the director.
     C.   The facility is not licensed by the state department of health or department of human services.
     D.   It is determined by an appropriate countylaw enforcement authority that residents of the facility
          have engaged in a pattern of criminal acts of nuisance, theft, or violence in the adjoining
          neighborhood.




19.87.070 - Residential day treatment.

     To avoid excessive traffic, on street parking, and related impacts altering the residential character of
a neighborhood, no day treatment for non-residents shall be permitted in residential facilities for the
disabled in the R-1 or R-2 residential zones.




19.87.080 - Parking.

     The minimum number of parking spaces shall be four spaces plus one space for each five residents,
provided that if the number of residents who own or operate a motor vehicle exceeds the number of
parking spaces established above, additional parking shall be provided to ensure that every resident who
owns or operates a motor vehicle has a lawfully located off-street parking space.




19.87.090 - Appeals.

      Pursuant to section 19.92.050 of this title for permitted uses, any person adversely affected by a final
decision of the zoning authority may appeal that decision to the board of adjustmentland use hearing
officer.




Chapter 19.88 - NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES*



19.88.010 - Continuation of use.

      The occupancy of a noncomplying structure or of a building or structure by a nonconforming use,
existing at the time this title became effective, may be continued, provided that the use has not been
abandoned or the building left vacant as provided in Section 19.88.120.




                                                                                                        Page 333
19.88.020 - Occupation within one year.

     A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building or structure was
designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one year after the use became nonconforming.




19.88.030 - Maintenance permitted.

     A noncomplying structure may be maintained.




19.88.040 - Repairs and alterations permitted.

     Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a noncomplying structure or to a structure housing
a nonconforming use. Any remodel or structural alteration that requires the demolition of an outside wall
of a noncomplying structure shall only be allowed upon approval of the land use hearing officer, unless
the new construction complies with the zoning ordinance. The land use hearing officer decision regarding
applications for the removal and replacement of outside walls of a noncomplying structure shall be based
upon the criteria outlined in Section 19.88.070(B).




19.88.050 - Addition of parking space.

     A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in connection therewith as
required by this title may be altered or enlarged provided additional automobile parking space is supplied
to meet the requirements of this title for such alteration or enlargement.




19.88.060 - Expansion of use permitted.

    A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the existing building in
which it is conducted at the time the use became nonconforming.




19.88.070 - Additions, enlargements, moving and reconstruction of a structure.

A.   A noncomplying structure or building occupied by a nonconforming use shall not be added to or
     enlarged in any manner or moved to another location on the lot or reconstructed at another location
     on the lot except as provided by subsection B of this section unless such additions and enlargements
     comply with the regulations and intent of this title.
B.    A building occupied by a nonconforming use or a noncomplying structure may be added to or
     enlarged or moved to a new location on the lot or reconstructed at a new location on the lot upon a
     permit authorized by the land use hearing officer, provided that the land use hearing officer shall find:
     1.   The addition to, enlargement of, moving of, or reconstruction of the structure at a new location
          on the lot is in harmony with one or more of the purposes of this title as stated in Section
          19.02.020 of this title, and is in keeping with the intent of this title;




                                                                                                    Page 334
     2.   That the proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the lands located in
          the vicinity of the nonconforming use or structure.




19.88.080 - Nonconforming use of land.

     The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this title became effective, may be continued
provided that no such nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the
same or adjoining property, and provided that if such nonconforming use of land, or any portion thereof, is
abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more, any future use of such land shall be in
conformity with the provision of this title.




19.88.090 - Change of use.

A.   A nonconforming use may be changed to any use allowed in the most restrictive zone where such
     nonconforming use is allowed, provided the planning commission finds that such use would not be
     more intensive than the most recent existing legal nonconforming use.
B.    Structures shall not be enlarged, removed, reconstructed or otherwise changed except for interior
     remodeling and exterior restoration or renewal that will make the appearance of the structure more
     nearly conform to the character of the area in which it is located.
C.    The existing lot or parcel shall not be enlarged upon or modified except to create landscaping,
     fencing, curb, gutter and sidewalk, road widening or minimum off-street parking that will provide a
     safer and more compatible facility.
D.   Any change of a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use shall be a conditional use and
     subject to provisions of Chapters 19.78 and 19.84, except that the proposed nonconforming use
     need not conform to the countymetro township general plan.
E.   The planning commission may approve a change of use pursuant to this title even though the
     nonconforming use may have been abandoned.




19.88.110 - Restoration of damaged structure.

     A noncomplying structure or a structure occupied by a nonconforming use which is damaged or
destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy and not the
result of the intentional or reckless disregard of the owners or occupants, may be restored and the
occupancy or use of such structure or part thereof, which existed at the time of such damage or
destruction may be continued or resumed, provided that such restoration is started within a period of one
year and is diligently prosecuted to completion.




19.88.120 - Abandonment or one-year vacancy.

     A structure or portion thereof occupied by a nonconforming use, which is, or hereafter becomes,
vacant and remains unoccupied by a nonconforming use for a continuous period of one year, except for
dwellings, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the
zone in which it is located. If the use has not applied to the premises for a consecutive period of sixty
days during any twelve-month period, the use shall be deemed abandoned.


                                                                                                 Page 335
19.88.140 - Application to have a use violation declared legal through special exception.

A.   Whenever land or a structure is used in violation of this title, the owner may file an application with
     the planning commission to have the use declared legal through special exception. The planning
     commission may approve such an application only when the evidence establishes all of the
     following:
     1.   The use exists on the property at the time of the application and has been in continuous
          violation of the zoning ordinance for a period exceeding ten years;
     2.   No complaint has been made to the development services division concerning the violation for a
          period exceeding ten consecutive years during which the violation existed;
     3.   Continuation of the use will not have a detrimental effect on the health, safety or welfare of
          persons or property in the vicinity.
B.   The planning commission may consider as evidence:
     1.   Documents that are part of the public record, such as tax appraisals, utility records, aerial
          photographs, building permits, etc.
     2.   Documentation from third parties, such as affidavits, photographs, etc.
     3.    Documentation from current or past property owners, such as tax records, rental/lease
          agreements, appraisal records, etc.
     In approving an application hereunder, the planning commission may set any conditions it deems
necessary for protection of adjacent properties or the public welfare including provisions limiting the
period of time the use may continue. This section shall in no way be interpreted to permit the continuation
of any violation which exists on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this section. Any person
shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing officer a decision rendered by the planning
commission pursuant to this section. Appellants shall follow the appeal procedures set forth in Section
19.92.050 of this title.




19.88.150 - Application to have a structure declared a noncomplying structure.

     Whenever a structure is in violation of the height or setback provisions of this title, the owner may file
an application with the director or director's designee to have the structure declared noncomplying. The
director or director's designee shall approve the application when the evidence clearly establishes the
following:
     A.   The structure has existed at its current location, with the same size, height and setbacks for at
          least ten years;
     B.    The structure is found by the countymetro township building official or designee to pose no
          threat to the health or safety of persons in or around the structure, and;
     C.   Salt LakeEmigration Canyon Countymetro township has not taken enforcement action for the
          violation for a period exceeding five consecutive years during which the violation existed.




Chapter 19.90 - AMENDMENTS AND REZONING




                                                                                                     Page 336
19.90.010 - Amendment procedure.

     The countymetro township council may amend the number, shape, boundaries or area of any zone
or any regulation within any zone. Any such amendment shall not be made or become effective unless
the same shall have been proposed by or be first submitted for the recommendation of the relevant
planning commission.




19.90.020 - Hearing—Notice.

      Before finally adopting any such amendment, the countymetro township council shall consider the
application during a public meeting which has been properly noticed in compliance with the provisions of
Title 52, Chapter 4, of the Open and Public Meetings Act.




19.90.030 - Determination of council.

     The countymetro township council, after review of the recommendation of the planning commission,
may approve, deny, alter or remand for further review and consideration any application for zone change
referred to the council by the planning commission.




19.90.050 - Disapproval of rezone application.

     Disapproval of an application to amend the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another
application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any portion thereof to
the same zone classification or if the application is for a commercial classification to the same or any
other commercial classification, within one year of the date of the final disapproval of the application
unless the countymetro township council finds that there has been a substantial change in the
circumstances or sufficient new evidence since the disapproval of the application to merit consideration of
a second application within the one-year time period.




19.90.060 - Conditions to zoning map amendment.

A.    In order to provide more specific land use designations and land development suitability; to insure
     that proposed development is compatible with surrounding neighborhoods; and to provide notice to
     property owners of limitations and requirements for development of property, conditions may be
     attached to any zoning map amendment which limit or restrict the following:
     1.   Uses;
     2.   Dwelling unit density;
     3.   Building square footage;
     4.   Height of structures.
B.    A zoning map amendment attaching any of the conditions set forth in subsection A shall be
     designated ZC after the zoning classification on the zoning map and any such conditions shall be
     placed on record with the planning commission and recorded with the county recorder.




                                                                                                 Page 337
C.   In the event any zoning condition is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then the
     entire zoning map amendment shall be void. Any deletion in or change to zoning condition shall be
     considered an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be subject to the requirements of this
     chapter.




19.90.070 - Application to amend the general plan.

     Subject to the restrictions in Sections 19.90.080 and 19.90.090, any property owner or authorized
agent thereof may file an application requesting an amendment to the countymetro township general
plan. Such application shall include the reasons or basis upon which the property owner believes the
countymetro township general plan should be amended. Amendments to the countymetro township
general plan shall comply with the procedures set forth in Chapter 27a of Title 17 of the state code.




19.90.080 - Restriction on applications after adoption of general plan.

     No application may be filed by any property owner or authorized agent thereof to amend any part of
the countymetro township general plan for a period of one year after adoption of such part of the
countymetro township general plan by the countymetro township council.




19.90.090 - Disapproval of general plan application.

      Disapproval of an application to amend the countymetro township general plan shall preclude the
filing of another application to amend the general plan text in the same or similar manner or to amend the
general plan map for any parcel of property or portion thereof to the same land use designation within two
years of the date of the final disapproval of the application unless the planning commission finds that
there has been a substantial change in the circumstances or other significant reasons since the
disapproval of the application to merit consideration of a second application within the two-year time
period. No appeal to the countymetro township council may be taken from a planning commission
decision rendered pursuant to this section.




Chapter 19.91 - SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES



19.91.010 - Title for citation.

     The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the "Sexually
Oriented Businesses Zoning Ordinance."




19.91.020 - Purpose of provisions.

    It is the purpose and objective of this chapter that the countymetro township establish reasonable
and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually oriented businesses or their location in



                                                                                                Page 338
areas deleterious to the unincorporated area of Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township; to
regulate the signage of such businesses; to control the adverse effects of such signage; and to prevent
inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community. This chapter is to be construed as a
regulation of time, place and manner of the operation of these businesses, consistent with the limitations
provided by provisions of the United States and Utah Constitutions.




19.91.030 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter:
     "Public park" means a park, playground, swimming pool, golf course or athletic field which is under
the control, operation or management of the state, a state agency, the county, Metro Township, or a
municipality.
      "Religious institution" means a building which is used primarily for religious worship and related
religious activities.
     "School" means an institution of learning or instruction primarily catering to minors, whether public or
private, which is accredited as such a facility by the State of Utah. This definition shall include
kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high schools, middle high schools, senior high schools, or any
special institution of learning under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Education, but shall not
include home occupations represented as schools, trade schools, charm schools, dancing schools, music
schools or similar limited schools, nor public or private universities or colleges.
    "Sexually oriented business" means adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses, seminude
dancing bars, outcall services, and nude and seminude dancing agencies as defined in Chapter 5.136.




19.91.040 - Business permitted—Restrictions.

A.   Sexually oriented businesses, other than outcall services and nude and seminude dancing agencies,
     shall be permitted only in areas zoned C-3 and M-1 pursuant to the provisions of Chapters 19.64 and
     19.66 respectively, subject to the following additional restrictions:
     1.   Sexually oriented businesses shall be subject to conditional use requirements.
     2.   No sexually oriented business shall be located:
          (a)    Within one thousand feet from any school, public park, religious institution, or other
                sexually oriented business;
          (b)   Within three hundred feet from an agricultural or residential boundary;
     3.   The distance requirements for this section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
          intervening structures, from the nearest property line of the school, public park, religious
          institution, agricultural or residential zoning district, or other sexually oriented business and to
          the nearest property line of the sexually oriented business.
B.   Outcall services and nude and seminude dancing agencies shall be permitted only in the following
     zones:
     1.   R-M—as an office, business use only, and subject to conditional use approval, pursuant to the
          provisions of chapter 19.44;
     2.   C-1, C-2, C-3, and M-1 as an office, business use only, pursuant to the provisions of chapters
          19.56, 19.62, 19.64 and 19.66 respectively.




                                                                                                    Page 339
19.91.050 - Sign restrictions.

     Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in Chapter 19.82 of this title, signs for sexually oriented
businesses shall be limited as follows:
     A.   No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed;
     B.   No sign shall be allowed to exceed eighteen square feet;
     C.   No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign, or on the exterior walls or roof of such
          premises;
     D.   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to, or inferring, the nature of the
          business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs shall contain alphanumeric copy only;
     E.   Only flat signs shall be permitted;
     F.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed;
     G.    Other than the signs specifically allowed by this chapter, the sexually oriented business shall
          not construct or allow to be constructed any temporary sign, banner, light or other device
          designed to draw attention to the business location.




19.91.060 - Severability.

      If any provision or clause of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is
held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall
not affect other sections, provisions, clauses or applications hereof which can be implemented without the
invalid provision, clause or application hereof, and to this end the provisions and clauses of this chapter
are declared to be severable.




Chapter 19.92 - LAND USE HEARING OFFICER



19.92.010 - Creation.

     The position of land use hearing officer is created pursuant to the enabling authority granted by the
Countymetro township Land Use, Development, and Management Act, section 17-27a10-9a-701 of the
Utah Code Annotated. The land use hearing officer shall replace in all respects the previous duties of the
board of adjustment. Only one hearing officer shall consider and decide any matter properly presented for
land use hearing officer review.




19.92.020 - Procedures.

A.   The land use hearing officer may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
B.   All hearings before the land use hearing officer shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 4, Title
     52, Utah Code, Open and Public Meetings.



                                                                                                    Page 340
     1.   The land use hearing officer shall:
          a.   Keep minutes of his or her proceedings; and
          b.   Keep records of his or her examinations and other official actions.
     2.   The land use hearing officer shall file his or her records in the office of the development services
          division. All such records are public records.
C.   Decisions of the land use hearing officer become effective at the meeting in which the decision is
     made, unless a different time is designated at the time the decision is made.




19.92.030 - Powers and duties.

     The land use hearing officer shall:
     A.    Act as the appeal authority for zoning decisions applying this title as provided in Section
          19.92.050 and for conditional use decisions by a planning commission:
     B.   Hear and decide the special exceptions to the terms of the zoning ordinance set forth in Section
          19.92.060.
     C.   Hear and decide variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance; and
     D.   Hear and decide applications for the expansion or modification of nonconforming uses.




19.92.040 - Variances.

A.   Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of the zoning ordinance as
     applied to a parcel of property that he/she owns, leases, or in which he/she holds some other
     beneficial interest may apply to the land use hearing officer for a variance from the terms of the
     zoning ordinance.
B.   1.   The land use hearing officer may grant a variance only if:
          a.   Literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship for the
               applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of the zoning ordinance;
          b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally apply to
               other properties in the same district;
          c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right
               possessed by other property in the same district;
          d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be contrary to the
               public interest; and
          e.   The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial justice done.
     2.   a.    In determining whether or not enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause
               unreasonable hardship under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may not find
               an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
               i.    Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is sought; and
               ii.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditions that are
                     general to the neighborhood.




                                                                                                    Page 341
           b.    In determining whether or not enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause
                unreasonable hardship under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may not find
                an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or economic.
     3.    In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached to the property under
           subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may find that special circumstances exist only if
           the special circumstances:
           a.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
           b.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the same district.
C.   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the conditions justifying a variance have
     been met.
D.   Variances run with the land.
E.   The land use hearing officer may not grant use variances.
F.   In granting a variance, the land use hearing officer may impose additional requirements on the
     applicant that will:
     1.    Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
     2.    Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or modified.




19.92.050 - Appeals.

A.    1.     The applicant or any other person or entity adversely affected by a zoning decision
           administering or interpreting a zoning ordinance may appeal that decision by alleging that an
           order, requirement, decision or determination made by an official in the administration or
           interpretation of the zoning ordinance is arbitrary, capricious or illegal. Appeals of conditional
           use decisions rendered by a planning commission shall follow the review procedure outlined in
           Section 19.84.080 of this code.
     2.    Any officer, department, board or bureau of a countymetro township affected by the grant or
           refusal of a building permit or by any other decisions of the administrative officer in the
           administration or interpretation of the zoning ordinance may appeal any decision to the land use
           hearing officer.
B.   The person or entity making the appeal has the burden of marshalling the evidence and proving that
     the decision is arbitrary, capricious (unsupported by the evidence or facts of record), or illegal.
C.   1.     Only zoning decisions applying the ordinance and conditional use decisions by the planning
           commission may be appealed to the land use hearing officer.
     2.    A person may not appeal, and the land use hearing officer may not consider, any zoning
           ordinance amendments.
D.   Appeals may not be used to waive or modify the terms or requirements of the zoning ordinance.
E.    An appeal to the land use hearing officer must be filed at the development services division of Salt
     Lake County within sixty days after the order, requirement decision or determination administering or
     interpreting the zoning ordinance is made in writing. The appeal shall set forth with specificity the
     reasons or grounds for the appeal.
F.   Appeals of planning commission conditional use decisions shall follow the procedures set forth in
     Section 19.84.080(B).




                                                                                                       Page 342
19.92.060 - Special exceptions.

     The land use hearing officer may approve any of the following special exceptions to the zoning
ordinance where he or she determines the exception is consistent with the purposes of the zoning
ordinance and will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity:
    A.   Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the passage of the
         ordinance codified in this title, the land use hearing officer may permit a use authorized on
         either portion of such lot to extend not more than fifty feet into the other portion of the lot.
    B.   The land use hearing officer may permit the enlargement of or addition to a noncomplying
         structure or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use.
    C.   The land use hearing officer may permit the relocation on a lot of a noncomplying structure or a
         building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use; or the hearing officer may permit the
         reconstruction on a lot of a noncomplying structure or a building occupied by a nonconforming
         use.




Chapter 19.93 - PROCEDURES FOR ANALYZING TAKINGS CLAIMS



19.93.010 - Purpose.

    The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for:
    A.    Obtaining and analyzing information regarding a claim that the application or enforcement of
         Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township zoning ordinances and/or land use
         regulations to private property within the unincorporated areas of the countymetro township
         constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property without just compensation; and
    B.   Determining whether it might be appropriate to grant administrative relief to the claimant in the
         event it is determined that such application or enforcement constitutes an unconstitutional
         taking.




19.93.020 - Findings.

    The governing body makes the following findings:
    A.   To further the public interest in lawful and responsible land development, and promote the
         health, welfare, and safety of its residents, the countymetro township has enacted zoning and
         other land development regulations applicable to properties within unincorporated areas of the
         countymetro township, including new and revised regulations applicable to properties in the
         countymetro township's canyons and foothills; and
    B.    In the event an owner of private property within the unincorporated area of the countymetro
         township claims that the application or enforcement of countymetro township zoning ordinances
         or other land use regulation constitutes an unconstitutional taking of its private property, it is in
         the best interests of the countymetro township to have established procedures for obtaining
         relevant information for analyzing such claim and determining whether it might be appropriate to
         grant certain relief to the claimant, rather than conducting such analysis in a more
         confrontational, expensive, and time-consuming litigation context.




                                                                                                    Page 343
19.93.030 - Taking relief procedures—Petition and submittal requirements.

A.    Takings Relief Petition. Any applicant, after a final decision on its application is rendered by the
     development services director, planning commission, land use hearing officer, mayorcouncil chair or
     countymetro township council, may file a takings relief petition with the development services director
     seeking relief from the final decision on the grounds that it constitutes an unconstitutional taking of
     the applicant's private property.
B.    Affected Property Interest. The takings relief petition must provide information sufficient for the
     attorney to determine that the petitioner possesses a protectable interest in property under Article I,
     Section 22 of the Constitution of Utah or the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution. In
     the event the petition does not provide information sufficient for the attorney to determine that the
     petitioner possesses a protectable interest in property under Article I, Section 22 of the Constitution
     of Utah or the Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution, the petition shall be returned to the
     petitioner.
C.   Time for Filing Petition. No later than thirty calendar days from the final decision by the development
     services director, planning commission, land use hearing officer, mayorcouncil chair, countymetro
     township council or other county review authority on any site plan or other type of zoning application
     the applicant shall file a takings relief petition with the development services director.
D.   Information to Be Submitted with Takings Relief Petition.
     1.   The takings relief petition must be submitted on a form prepared by the development services
          director, and must be accompanied at a minimum by the following information:
          a.   The name of the petitioner;
          b.   The name and business address of the current owner of the property; form of ownership
               (whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation, partnership, joint
               venture, limited liability company, or other); and if owned by corporation, partnership, or
               joint venture, or limited liability company, the names and addresses of principal
               shareholders or partners or members;
          c.   The price paid and other terms of sale for the property, the date of purchase, and the name
               of the party from whom purchased. Include the relationship, if any, between the petitioner
               and the party from whom the property was acquired;
          d.   The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as, but not limited to, fee
               simple ownership or leasehold interest;
          e.   The terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a full or partial interest
               in the property by the current owner, applicant, or developer prior to the date of application;
          f.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, include financing, offering for sale,
               or ad valorem taxation, within the three years prior to the date of the petition;
          g.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the three years prior to the
               date of the petition;
          h.    All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured by the property,
               including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate, remaining loan balance,
               and term of the loan and other significant provisions, including but not limited to, right of
               purchase to assume the loan;
          i.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received (if any), during the
                period of ownership or interest in the property;
          j.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the petitioner within the previous
               three years concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the property;


                                                                                                        Page 344
          k.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense statements from the
               property for the previous three years;
          l.   Evidence and documentation of improvements, investments, and expenditures for
               professional and other services related to property made during the past three years;
          m.    Information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded liens or encumbrances
               affecting the property; and
          n.   Information describing all use(s) of the property during the five years prior to the petition.
     2.   The development services director may request additional information reasonably necessary, in
          his or her opinion, to arrive at a conclusion concerning whether there has been a taking.
E.   Failure to Submit Information. In the event that any of the information required to be submitted by the
     petitioner is not reasonably available, the petitioner shall file with the petition a statement of the
     information that cannot be obtained and shall describe the reasons why such information is
     unavailable.




19.93.040 - Taking relief procedures—Determination of taking.

A.   Preliminary Determination of Taking.
     1.   Prior to the appointment of a hearing officer, and based on a review of the petition and all
          relevant information submitted by the petitioner, the countymetro township council, upon advice
          of the development services director and the attorney, shall make a preliminary determination
          whether a taking may have occurred. This preliminary determination shall be made within thirty
          days of the filing of the petition and submission of all information required to make such
          determination. In the event the countymetro township council makes a preliminary determination
          that a taking may have occurred, the countymetro township council may appoint a hearing
          officer, elect to conduct either formal or informal administrative proceedings, and proceed with a
          full review of the petition.
     2.   If a preliminary determination is made that a taking may have occurred, then the development
          services director and attorney shall recommend whether the hearing shall be formal or informal
          under the rules of procedure adopted by the governing body for such hearings.
     3.    If upon the advice of the development services director and the attorney, the countymetro
          township council finds that a taking has not occurred, the petition shall be denied and no
          hearing officer shall be appointed.
B.   Appointment of Hearing Officer. The development services director shall, within thirty days following
     a preliminary determination by the governing body that a taking may have occurred, appoint a
     hearing officer to review information by the petitioner, to hold a public hearing to determine whether a
     taking has occurred, and to make a recommendation to the governing body concerning the petition.
C.    Qualifications of the Hearing Officer. Every appointed hearing officer shall be licensed to practice
     law in the state of Utah. Prior to appointment, the hearing officer shall submit a statement of no
     potential or actual conflict of interest in connection with the petitioner or petition.
D.   Notice of Public Hearing. Within ten days following appointment of the hearing officer, written notice
     of a public hearing shall be published and posted in accordance with Section 19.84.040D of this title.
     The hearing shall be held within thirty days of the final date of written notice, unless a reasonable
     extension of time is agreed to by both the development services director and the petitioner.
E.   Conduct of the Hearing. The hearing shall be conducted according to the requirements of the rules
     of procedure adopted by the governing body for such hearings.




                                                                                                      Page 345
F.   Determining the Takings Issue. The hearing officer shall consider, among other items, the following
     information or evidence:
     1.    Any estimates from contractors, appraisers, architects, real estate analysts, qualified
          developers, or other competent and qualified real estate professionals concerning the feasibility,
          or lack of feasibility, of construction or development on the property as of the date of the
          petition, and in the reasonably near future;
     2.   Any evidence or testimony of the market value of the property both under the uses allowed by
          the existing regulations and any proposed use; and
     3.   Any evidence or testimony concerning the value or benefit to the petitioner from the availability
          of opportunities to cluster development on other remaining contiguous property owned by the
          petitioner eligible for such clustering as provided elsewhere in this title.
G.    Burden of Proof. The petitioner shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
     that the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an unconstitutional
     taking.
H.   Findings of the Hearing Officer. The hearing officer shall, on the basis of the evidence and testimony
     presented, make the following specific findings as part of his/her report and recommendations to the
     governing body:
     1.   Whether the petitioner has complied with the requirements for presenting the information to be
          submitted with a takings relief petition;
     2.   Whether the petitioner has a protectable interest in the property that is the subject of the
          petition;
     3.   The market value of the property considering the existing zoning regulation;
     4.   The market value of the property under the proposed use;
     5.   Whether there are other economically viable uses that may be made of the property;
     6.   The market value of, or benefit accruing from opportunities to cluster development on other
          remaining contiguous property owned by the petitioner eligible for such transfer as provided for
          in this title;
     7.   Whether it was feasible to undertake construction on, or development of, the property as of the
          date of the application, or in the reasonably near future thereafter;
     8.   Whether the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an
          unconstitutional taking of private property without just compensation.
I.   Report and Recommendations of the Hearing Officer.
     1.   If the hearing officer finds that the final decision which is the subject of the takings relief petition
          constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property without just compensation, he or she
          shall remand the matter to the governing body with recommendations concerning what relief
          might be appropriate. In making such recommendations, the hearing officer shall consider,
          among other factors:
          a.   Approval of development on some portion of the property; or
          b.   A rezoning of the property to a more appropriate classification, approval of an alternative
               development plan, modification or waiver of normally-applicable development standards, or
               other appropriate land-use regulatory action;
          c.   An opportunity to cluster development;
          d.   For property subject to the foothills and canyons overlay zone, transfer of up to ten percent
               of the maximum allowable density that would otherwise be attributable to areas with
               greater than thirty percent slope on the subject property to other developable portions of
               the property;


                                                                                                        Page 346
          e.   A waiver of permit fees;
          f.   Acquisition of all or a portion of the property at market value.
     2.   Recommendations for clustering within the boundaries of the subject property owned by the
          petitioner shall require a written finding by the hearing officer that such clustering and the
          resulting increase in development density will be compatible with existing developments and
          land use patterns on properties surrounding the subject property.
          a.    For purposes of such "compatibility" finding, the hearing officer shall compare the
               petitioner's proposed development incorporating the increased transfer density with
               existing development on surrounding properties, and take into consideration the following
               factors:
               i.     Architectural character;
               ii.    Building size, height, bulk, mass, and scale;
               iii.    Building orientation;
               iv.     Privacy considerations in terms of privacy for prospective residents within the
                      petitioner's development and in terms of privacy protection for adjoining land uses;
               v.     Building materials;
               vi.     Building color; and
               vii.     When applicable, operations of the petitioner's development project, including but not
                      limited to hours of operation; activities that may generate adverse impacts on adjacent
                      land uses such as noise or glare; location of loading/delivery zones; and light intensity
                      and hours of full illumination.
          d.   The report and recommendation shall be submitted to the countymetro township council
               and mailed to the petitioner within thirty days following the conclusion of the public hearing.
J.   CountyMetro Township Council Review and Consideration.
     1.   The countymetro township council shall review the report and recommendations of the hearing
          officer and approve or deny the takings relief petition within sixty days following receipt of the
          hearing officer's report. Provided, however, that the countymetro township council may extend
          this period upon a finding that due to the size and complexity of the development or proposal
          and similar factors that additional review time is necessary.
     2.   The countymetro township council may hold a public hearing and provide notice as set forth in
          Section 19.84.040D of this title. Only new testimony and evidence shall be presented at any
          such public hearing.
     3.    The countymetro township council may adopt any legally available incentive or measure
          reasonably necessary to offset the taking, and may condition such incentives upon approval of
          specific development or site plans.
     4.   The decision of the countymetro township council shall not become final until it issues a
          decision approving or denying the petition and specifying any relief it may deem appropriate.
K.    Time Limits/Transferal of Relief or Incentives. Any relief or incentives adopted by the countymetro
     township council pursuant to this chapter may be transferred and utilized by successive owners of
     the property or parties in interest, but in no case shall the relief incentives be valid after the expiration
     date of a specific development approval.




Chapter 19.94 - ENFORCEMENT




                                                                                                        Page 347
19.94.010 - Enforcement authority.

     The director of development services or his authorized agent is designated as the officer charged
with the enforcement of this title. The director of animal services is designated as the enforcement official
for Section 19.04.305 of the Salt LakeEmigration Canyon CountyMetro Township Code of Ordinances
which shall be enforced pursuant to Section 8.10.010 of this code.




19.94.020 - Powers and duties.

A.   The director of development services is authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings
     and structures in the course of construction, modification or repair and to inspect land uses to
     determine compliance with the provisions of this title; provided, however that no such inspection shall
     be required as a condition precedent to commencement or continuation of any construction,
     modification or repair of building or structure.
B.   The director shall enforce all of the provisions of this title, employing all legal means available to do
     so. In the enforcement of this title, the director or any employee of the division authorized to
     represent the director shall have the right to enter any building for the purpose of determining the use
     thereof or to enter the premises for the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
     title, provided that such right of entry shall be exercised only at reasonable hours and that in no case
     shall entry be made to any occupied building in the absence of the owner or tenant thereof without
     the written order of a court of competent jurisdiction.




19.94.030 - Unlawful use prohibited.

A.   No land, building or structure shall be used for any purpose or use not allowed in the zone in which
     such land, building or structure is located.
B.   Violation of any of the provisions contained in this title is prohibited. Any person who violates that
     provisions of this title shall be subject to the criminal and civil penalties set forth in this chapter.




19.94.040 - Violation—Penalties and remedies.

A.    Violation of any of the provisions of this title is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor upon
     conviction. In addition, the provisions of this title may also be enforced by injunctions, mandamus,
     abatement, civil penalties, or any other remedies provided by law.
B.   Any one, all, or any combination of the penalties and remedies set forth in subsection A of this
     section may be used to enforce the provisions of this title.
C.   Each day that any violation continues after notification by the director of development services or his
     agent that such violation exists shall be considered a separate offense for purposes of penalties and
     remedies set forth in this title.
D.   Accumulation of penalties for continuing violations, but not the obligation for payment of penalties
     already accrued, shall stop upon correction of the violation.




                                                                                                    Page 348
19.94.050 - Violation—Persons liable.

    Any person, corporation or other entity, whether as owner, occupant, agent or employee, who
causes, permits or otherwise participates in any violation of the provisions of this title may be held
responsible for the violation, suffer the penalties, and be subject to the remedies provided by law.




19.94.060 - Violation—Notice and order.

A.   Upon inspection and discovery that any provision of this title is being violated, the director shall
     provide a written notice of violation and order to the property owner and to any other party who may
     be responsible for the violation.
B.    The written notice and order shall: (1) indicate the nature of the violation; (2) order the action
     necessary to correct the violation; (3) give information regarding the established warning period for
     the violation; and (4) state the action the director intends to take if the violation is not corrected within
     the warning period.
C.    The written notice shall be delivered personally or mailed to the property owner, as shown on the
     records of the county recorder, and to any other person who may be responsible for the violation.
     Receipt of notice shall mean three days after the date written notice is delivered or mailed as
     provided herein.
D.    The written notice shall serve to start any warning periods provided in this chapter, commencing
     upon receipt of notice. If the violation remains uncured within five days after the expiration of the
     warning period, a second notice of violation and order shall be delivered in the same manner as the
     first notice. The second notice shall serve to start the civil penalties.
E.    In cases where the director determines that a delay of enforcement would pose a danger to the
     public health, safety or welfare, or would otherwise compromise the effective enforcement of this
     title, the director may seek immediate enforcement without prior written notice by instituting any of
     the remedies, other than civil penalties, authorized by Section 19.94.040 of this chapter.




19.94.070 - Civil penalties.

A.    Civil Penalties. Violations of the provisions of this title shall result in civil penalties pursuant to the
     following schedule:

                    CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS

                           WARNING PERIOD: 28 DAYS FOR ALL VIOLATIONS

                                                                                             Fine Per Day
              Type of Zone                         Classification of Violation
                                                                                        (after warning period)

           Residential Zones                   Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                                  $25
                 R-1's                                 Other violations
                 R-2's
                R-4-8.5                                Nonpermitted use
                 FR's                                                                             $50
                                                Violation of permit or approval
                  F-1



                                                                                                        Page 349
                    RMH


                Mixed Zones                    Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                                 $50
                    R-M                                Other violations
                   MD's
                   FM's                                Nonpermitted use
                                                                                                $100
                   S-1-G                        Violation of permit or approval

                                               Conditional use without a permit
     Commercial/Manufacturing Zones                                                             $100
                                                       Other violations
                  C's
                  M's
                                                       Nonpermitted use
                 O-R-D                                                                          $200
                                                Violation of permit or approval

                                               Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                                 $25
            Agricultural Zones                         Other violations
                    A's
                   FA's                                Nonpermitted use
                                                                                                 $50
                                                Violation of permit or approval

                Overlay Zones
                    AOZ                             Violation of provisions                     $100
                    HPZ




B.    Daily Violations. Each day a violation is continued or maintained after receipt of notice shall give rise
      to a separate civil penalty for each day of violation.
C.    Violation Appeal Procedures.
      1.   The mayorcouncil chair shall appoint such hearing officers as he/she deems appropriate to
           consider matters relating to the violation of this title.
      2.   Any person having received notice of such violation, or the owner of any affected property, may
           appear before a hearing officer and present and contest such alleged violation of this title.
      3.   The burden to prove any defense specified in subsection (C)(4) of this section shall be upon the
           person raising such defense.
      4.   If the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred and/or a violation occurred but one or more
           of the defenses set forth in this section is applicable, the hearing officer may dismiss the notice
           of violation. Such defenses are:
           a.    At the time of the receipt of the notice of violation, compliance would have violated the
                 criminal laws of the state;
           b.      Compliance with the subject ordinances would have presented an imminent and
                 irreparable injury to persons or property.
      5.   If the hearing officer finds that a violation of this title occurred and no applicable defense exists,
           the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the countymetro township,



                                                                                                       Page 350
          enter into an agreement for the timely or periodic payment of the applicable penalty by the
          violator.
     6.   No action by a hearing officer shall relieve the violator from complying with any of the provisions
          of this title.
D.   Abatement for Correction and Payment.
     1.   Civil penalties shall be partially abated after the violation is cured and in the discretion of a
          hearing officer considering the following guidelines and factors:
          a.   Prompt Cure. Reductions are generally appropriate for promptly curing the violation
               pursuant to the following schedule, but the hearing officer may grant greater or lesser
               abatements depending on the facts of the case:
               i.     Cured within fourteen days after second notice—seventy-five percent reduction,
               ii.    Cured within twenty-eight days after second notice—fifty percent reduction, or
               iii.   Cured within fifty-six days after second notice—twenty-five percent reduction;
          b.    If strict compliance with the notice and order would have caused an imminent and
               irreparable injury to persons or property;
          c.   If the violation and inability to cure were both caused by a force majeure event such as war,
               act of nature, strike or civil disturbance;
          d.   Such other mitigating circumstances as may be approved by the attorney or designee;
          e.   If a change in the actual ownership of the property was recorded in the recorder's officer
               after the first or second notice was issued and the new owner is not related by blood,
               marriage or common ownership to the prior owner.
     2.   If the hearing officer finds that the noticed violation occurred and no applicable defense applies,
          the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the countymetro township,
          enter into an agreement for the delayed or periodic payment of the applicable penalty.
E.   Collection of Civil Penalties.
     1.   If the penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter remains unsatisfied after forty days or when the
          penalty amounts to five thousand dollars from the receipt of notice, or ten days from such date
          as may have been agreed to by the hearing officer, the countymetro township may use such
          lawful means as are available to collect such penalty, including costs and attorney's fees.
     2.   Commencement of any action to remove penalties shall not relieve the responsibility of any
          penalty to cure the violation or make payment of subsequently accrued civil penalties nor shall it
          require the countymetro township to reissue any of the notices required by this chapter.




                                                                                                   Page 351
Page 352
Page 353
Page 354
Page 355
Page 356
Page 357
Page 358
