EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. \o-0lg,-0| dune 28 2018
A ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CURRENT APPLICABLE CODE CONCERNING
ENCROACHMENTS INTO TOWNSHIP RIGHTS OF WAYS
RECITALS

A. Utah State Code section 10-2a-414 provides that when a metro township is
incorporated that each county ordinance that is in effect on the day that metro township is
incorporated will remain in effect as a metro township ordinance until the metro township
council amends or repeals the ordinance.

B. The current code applicable in the Township delegates some authority
encroachments in the rights of way to the planning department serving the township.

C. The Township Council desires to have approval of all encroachments into the public
rights of way owned or regulated by the Township.

ORDINANCE

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:
J. The current code Chapter 14.36- regulating Driveways that was inherited from the County and
is applicable in the Township is amended to read as follows:
Chapter 14.36 - DRIVEWAYS
Sections:
14.36.010 - Permit required.

It is unlawful for any person to construct, build, establish or maintain any sidewalk,
curb ramp, curb and gutter, or driveway over, across or upon any public street, road,
thoroughfare, or parkway, or to cut or change the construction of any public sidewalk,
curb or gutter for any purpose, without having first obtained: from the planning—and
development services—division Metro Township Council a permit for such construction,
cut or change.

14.36.020 - Bond required.
A. Before issuance of any such permit, the contractor or person proposing the Ve M
construction shall file with the bond office, on a form furnished by the Geunty metro,

a penal bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars with good and sufficient surety

\ thereon, conditioned that the makers shall save harmless, defend and indemnify the

‘metro against or on account of accidents, damages or claims arising out of

or during the construction by the contractor. All such bonds shall be continuing until
terminated by notice in writing given thirty days in advance.

B. In addition a contractor making a business of such construction in the Gounty metro M
shall maintain on file in the office of the planning and development services division

a performance and completion bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars to

guarantee for one year from date of acceptance by the metro work done in the

metro.
14.36.030 - Specifications and grades.

All construction authorized by the permit issued under Section 14.36.010 shall be in
accordance with the specifications and grades furnished by the Metro Township Council
or_ its designees planning-and_develepment semices—divisien and the acceptance of
such permit shall be deemed an agreement by the permittee to perform such
construction in accordance with such specifications and grades.

14.36.040 - Deviation from permitted construction unlawful.

It is unlawful for any person to construct any sidewalk, curb and gutter, or driveway
over, across or upon any public street, road, thoroughfare or parkway, or to cut or
change the construction thereof except in accordance with the permit issued by the
Metro Township Council planning-and- development sermices-division.

14.36.050 - Inspection and approval.

All sidewalks, curb ramps, curb and gutters, and driveways constructed in
accordance with the permits authorized by this chapter shall be subject to the
supervision, inspection and approval by the Metro Township Council or its designees.

lanni | devel ) livision.
14.36.060 - Construction regulations.

No permit shall be granted by the Metro Township Council planning—and
development-sermices—division for any driveway exceeding thirty-five feet in width. No
driveway, including sidewalk, shall be less than six inches thick. When more than one
driveway is required for any one parcel of land, a sidewalk island of at least twelve feet
shall be provided between driveways, and in no case shall a permit be granted for a
driveway that will be within ten feet from the property line where it adjoins any street. It
is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicles over or across any such street corner or
within ten feet therefrom, as provided in this section. Where, in the opinion of the Metro
Township Council planning-and development services-division it would be dangerous, or
where a driveway conflicts with any permanent improvements or waterways, it may
refuse to issue the permit. and-the-matter-shall be referred tothe-chairfordecision iA
II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code 10-3-
711.

Ill. The Salt Lake County Clerk acting for the Township and municipal recorder/clerk pursuant
to Utah Code 10-3c-201(1)(a)(ii) is hereby authorized to provide appropriate title, chapter, part,
and section numbers for the provision of this ordinance and pursuant to Utah Code 10-3-713
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, this ordinance, along with all
ordinances passed by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

IV. The recorder shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not already so
done.
V. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required.
APPROVED AND ADOT ED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah, this 2% day of 3“ , 2018.
MAYOR (_)
by Bee
ATTEST: Joe Smolka
ay, a x (ut —Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Paine petty
Council Member Smolka fei®
Council Member Hawkes ACG
Council Member Brems Be
Council Member Bowen BAe
