EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
RESOLUTION NO. 20-05-01, May 27, 2020
RESOLUTION OF THE TOWNSHIP COUNCIL AUTHORZING THE TOWNSHIP TO |
PARTICIPATE IN THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
WHEREAS, certain areas of Emigration Canyon Metro Township, are subject to periodic
flooding, causing serious damages to properties within these areas; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of this Council to require the recognition and evaluation of flood
hazards 1n all official actions relating to land use in areas having these hazards; and
WHEREAS, this body has the legal authority to adopt land use and control measures to reduce
future flood losses pursuant to Utah Code 10-8-84 and 10-9a-101 et. seq.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that his Council hereby:
t, Assures the Federal Emergency Management Agency that it will enact as necessary,
and maintain in force, in those areas having flood hazards, adequate land use and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set forth in Section
60 of the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations; and
2. Vest the Mayor of the Township or his/her designee with the responsibility, authority
and means to:

(a) Assist the Administrator, at his/her request, in the delineation of the limits of
the area having special flood hazards.

(b) Provide such information concerning present uses and occupancy of the :
floodplain, mudslide G.e., mudflow) or flood-related erosion areas as the
Admunistrator may request.

(c) Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request, for the determination

of
applicable flood insurance risk premium rates within all areas having special
flood hazards identified on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), any certificates of floodproofing, and information
on the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the level of the lowest flood
(including basement) of all new construction or substantially improved structures,
and include whether or not such structures contain a basement, and if the structure
has been floodproofed, the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
structure was floodproofed.

(d) Cooperate with Federal, State and local agencies and private firms which
undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudslide G.e., mudflow)
or flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide, G.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.

(e) Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the boundaries
of the community have been modified by annexation or the community has

otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations for a particular area. In order that all FHBM’s and
FIRM’s accurately represent the community’s boundaries, include within such
notification a copy of the map of the community suitable for reproduction, clearly
delineating the new corporate limits or new area for which the community has
assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.

(f) Submit an annual report to the Administrator concerning the community's
participation in the program, including, but not limited to the development and
implementation of floodplain management measures.

af Appoints the Mayor of the Township or his/or her designee with the

responsibility, authority, and means to implement the commitments as outlined 1n this
Resolution.
4A. Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably necessary to
carry
out the objectives of the adopted floodplain management measures.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah, this 27 day of May 2020.
ga os
ATTEST: Joe Smolka
Clerk
3 Voting:
Council Member Harris Aye
Council Member Smolka Aye
Council Member Hawkes Ave
Council Member Brems Aye
Council Member Bowen Aye
