EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH

RESOLUTION NO.20 -0\56\ January 23.4 2020
A RESOLUTION OF EMIGRATION METRO TOWNSHIP APPROVING ENTRY INTO
A REVISED AND RESTATED INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT TO CREATE AND
GOVERN THE UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY

A. The Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Ann. §11-13-101 et seq. (the
“Interlocal Cooperation Act”), provides that any two or more public agencies may enter into
agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action following the adoption of an
appropriate resolution by the governing body of each participating public agency.

B. The multiple parties to the proposed Revised and Restated Interlocal Agreement
to Create and Govern the Unified Fire Authority (“Revised Interlocal Agreement”) are all public
agencies for purposes of the Interlocal Cooperation Act.

C. The Unified Fire Authority (“Authority”) was initially created via Interlocal
Cooperation Act in 2004 to provide fire protection and emergency medical services to public
agencies for a fee. As described in the Revised Interlocal Agreement, some members of the
Authority directly pay this fee to the Authority while others do so as members of the Unified Fire
Service Area, a special district for fire protection and emergency medical services.

D. To better reflect the current status and governance of the Authority, the members
of the Authority, including those members of the Unified Fire Service Area, wish to revise and
restate the original 2004 interlocal agreement by entering into the Revised Interlocal Agreement
in the form attached hereto as Exhibit “A,” so that the Authority may continue to provide fire
suppression, rescue services, emergency medical services, emergency protection, and related
services to the parties.

E. Each legislative body of the Authority and its members has met or will meet in
regular open session in compliance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act to approve the

| respective entity’s entry into the Revised Interlocal Agreement.

F, The Chief Legal Officer of the Authority has reviewed and approved the form of
the Revised Interlocal Agreement as required by Utah Code Ann. §11-13-202.5(3). Each
member entity’s respective legal counsel must similarly approve the Revised Interlocal
Agreement.

G. After careful consideration, the Council of Emigration Metro Township has
reviewed the form of the Revised Interlocal Agreement and determined that it is in the best
interests of Emigration Metro Township to approve the entry into the Revised Interlocal
Agreement as proposed.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Council of Emigration Metro
Township:

SECTION 1. PURPOSE. The purpose of this Resolution is to approve the entry of
Emigration Metro Township into an Interlocal Agreement.

SECTION 2. APPROVAL OF INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT. The Council hereby
authorizes and directs the execution and delivery of the Revised Interlocal Agreement, in the
form attached as Exhibit “A” hereto, on behalf of Emigration Metro Township.

SECTION 3. RECORDS. Emigration Metro Township’s keeper of records is authorized
and instructed to keep and maintain an executed copy of the Revised Interlocal Agreement
available for inspection.

SECTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Resolution will take effect upon approval. The
Revised Interlocal Agreement will be effective when the following Interlocal Cooperation Act

requirements have been satisfied: (i) the Revised Interlocal Agreement has been approved by all
parties as required by Section 11-13-202(2); (ii) each party to the Revised Interlocal Agreement
has submitted the Revised Interlocal Agreement to an attorney authorized to represent the said
party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law as required by Section 11-
13-202.5(3); and (iii) the approved, signed Revised Interlocal Agreement has been filed with the
keeper of records of each of the parties as required by Section 11-13-209.
Passed by the Council of Emigration Metro Township this23 day of January, 2020.
MAY,OR C
; bye 2] 6 é
ATTEST: Joe Smolka”
S)
Voting:
Council Member Bowen bye
Council Member Smolka Pei
Council Member Hawkes fe
Council Member Brems ate
Council Member Harris Ae
