                                  ORDINANCE #2021– 06 –01
 ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR MUNICIPAL RESTRICTION OF FIREWORKS WITHIN
        ALL PORTIONS OF EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

       WHEREAS, Utah Code §53-7-225, prohibits the discharge of Class C common state
approved explosives (fireworks) except around certain holidays including beginning on July 2
and ending on July 5, and beginning on July 22 and ending on July 25;

       WHEREAS, the fire official for ECMT has found that existing hazardous environmental
conditions exist within the entire ECMT (see Letter From Fire Marshal dated June 21, 2021,
attached as Exhibit A);

        WHEREAS, most of Salt Lake County is in the D-4, Exceptional Drought category with
a historic dry line and explosive potential;

        WHEREAS, the Council of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Council”) finds
that the Township, throughout all areas, contains innumerable mountainous, brush-covered,
forest covered, and dry grass-covered areas which historically and existing today are in an
extremely flammable condition;

        WHEREAS, if existing or historical hazardous environmental conditions exist within the
boundaries of Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“ECMT”), Utah Code §15A-5-202.5 allows
the Council to prohibit the ignition and use of fireworks while these conditions exist in the
following areas: (1) mountainous, brush-covered, forest covered, or dry grass-covered areas; (2)
within 200 feet of waterways, trails, canyons, washes, ravines, or similar areas; (3) wildland
urban interface area, which means the line, area, or zone where structures or other human
development meet or intermingle with undeveloped wildland or land being used for an
agricultural purpose; or (4) a limited area outside the hazardous areas;

        WHEREAS, the Council finds the entire ECMT consists of the above listed hazardous
areas and a map of the ECMT is attached hereto as Exhibit B;

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:
        SECTION I: Pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Code Ann. 15A-5-202.5, and based
on the findings as noted above, the use of Class C fireworks is hereby restricted in all areas of the
ECMT as shown in the attached map of the Metro Township in Exhibit B.
     SECTION II: Due to the extreme drought conditions, the following are prohibited until
November 15, 2021, unless earlier terminated by action of the Council.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 80717BD5-3CD8-4615-8F06-3238C521E422




                          1. No cutting, welding or grinding metal in areas of dry vegetation unless the areas where the
                             work is being done is thoroughly wetting down and the areas are kept wet throughout the
                             process.
                          2.   No operating a motorcycle, chainsaw, ATV, other small internal combustion engine
                               without an approved and working spark arrestor.
                     Section III: Effective Date. For the protection and preservation of public health and
             safety, this Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its passage. The Town Clerk is
             hereby directed to publish and/or post this Ordinance forthwith.


                     PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Metro Township Council of Emigration Canyon,
             Utah, this _22 day of _June in the year 2021.


                                                              EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP




                                                              Joe Smolka, Mayor

             ATTEST:
             SHERRIE SWENSON


             METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK


             Exhibit A: Letter From Fire Marshal dated June 21, 2021.
             Exhibit B: Map of Existing Hazardous Conditions in Metro Township. (Entire Township)
                   UNIFIED FIRE AUTHORITY                                                        FIRE PREVENTION DIVISION

June 21, 2021

To: Emigration Township

I have been asked to provide guidance as to the currently existing environmental conditions that
are in effect as they may impact your legislative bodies’ evaluation of fireworks restrictions
based on current conditions.

The US Drought Monitor shows most of Salt Lake County in the D-4, Exceptional Drought
category. I received a report Saturday from the Division of Forestry Fire and State Lands that
shows we are clearly following the historic dry line and explosive potential. This means that
along the Wasatch Front, the energy release component of vegetation is near maximum potential
and the fuel moisture well below average. Given the unusually high temperatures and low
humidity the past few days since these reports, conditions have become drier.

The current conditions present very hazardous fire potential during this fireworks season. This is
particularly true for Emigration Township as the entire township is located within a wildland
interface area or the type of area described in Utah Code §15A-5-202.5(1)(b)(1).

Given these factors and conditions, I have determined, as the fire code official, that hazardous
environmental conditions exist that necessitate the controlled use of ignition sources in the
entirety of Emigration Township. I recommend that your entity restrict ignition sources,
including fireworks, and prohibit their use throughout Emigration Township (a map of the
township boundaries is attached hereto).

Please feel free to contact our office should you have any questions.


Brad Larson
Fire Marshal / Unified Fire Authority
4965 S Redwood Rd / Taylorsville, UT 84123
801-743-7227 o / 801- 205-4080 c
blarson@unifiedfire.org




     3380 South 900 West, South Salt Lake City, Utah 84119 * (801) 743-7230 office (801) 743-7121 fax * WWW.UNIFIEDFIRE.ORG
                                                                Emigration Creek Watershed - Overview Map
                                                                                                           Lookout Peak


                            Legend
          Emigration Creek              Watershed Boundary
                  Culvert               Reservoirs
                                 1 " = 1 miles
                  Creek




                                                                                                     Little Mountain Pass     Little Dell




                                                                                                              Mountain Dell




³
        Rotary Glen Park




    0                        1                         2
                                                        Miles
