EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION FOR PARTICIPATION IN ELECTRONIC
MEETINGS
Resolution No. 2021-07-01 Date: July 27, 2021

WHEREAS, The Township Council (“Council”) recognizes the need after holding electronic
meetings due to the COVID-19 pandemic over the last year and appreciates that the ability to
hold electronic meetings has expanded and the Council wishes to update its policy to increase the
ability to hold electronic meetings.

WHEREAS, the purpose of this policy is to establish the means and procedures by which the
Township Council may conduct electronic meetings in accordance with the provisions of the
Open and Public Meetings Act ("Act"), and particularly § 52-4-207 (UCA, as amended).

WHEREAS, the Council finds it is in the best interest of the Council and the public to be able to
conduct telephonic or electronic meetings to assure that all members of the Council have the
opportunity to participate in meetings of the Township regardless of physical location of the
individual member of the Council.

WHEREAS, the Council finds that the Township has adequate facilities to support the conduct of
a telephonic or electronic meeting.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township may allow

electronic meeting participation, and that the following rules shall be adopted:
1.0 Application of the Act — definitions.

1.1 The Council hereby adopts those definitions of specific terms which appear
in the Act at § 52-4-103 for application in this policy.

2.0 Electronic Meetings

2.1 The Council hereby determines that it may convene and conduct meetings in which
one or more Council members attend and participate in the meeting through
electronic means.

2.2 Electronic meetings may include meetings conducted by means of telephone,
telecommunications, or by other computerized, electronic, or teleconferencing
means and media.

3.0 Notice and Quorum

3.1 When conducting an electronic meeting, notice of the electronic meeting shall be
provided to the public and the members of the public body at least 24 hours before
the meeting and a description of how the members will be connected to the
electronic meeting.

3.2. The Council may participate electronically and be counted as present for all
purposes, including the determination that a quorum is present.
4.0 Public Attendance
4.1 Staff shall provide sufficient and necessary space, equipment and other means as
required by the Act to allow the public to attend, monitor and, where appropriate,
participate in the public portion of any electronic meeting conducted by the
Council.
APPROVED and PASSED this 2% day of J uly
EMIGRATION CANYON va
ve
py: OO _AAOO
oe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST:
Township Clerk
