DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




                                 EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH


             ORDINANCE NO. 2021-09-01                                                   DATE: 09-28-2021


                 AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING TITLE 19, CHAPTER 15 TO REGULATE INTERNAL
                                  ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS


                    WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township recognizes that Internal Accessory
            Dwelling Units in single-family residential zones can be an important tool in the overall housing
            plan for Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
                   WHEREAS, State of Utah legislation allows for Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
            generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish to regulate certain
            requirements of the dwellings;
                    WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to ensure that building permits
            or licenses are not issued for an IADU until the applicant has provided written confirmation from
            the applicable water supplier that the IADU complies with all applicable water service
            requirements.
                    WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to allow opportunities for
            property owners to provide social or personal support for family members where independent
            living is desirable and to provide for affordable housing opportunities;
                    WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to preserve the character of
            single-family neighborhoods by providing standards governing development of Internal Accessory
            Dwelling Units; and
                    WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township wishes to ensure that Internal
            Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring property owners to obtain a business
            license and a building permit for an IADU prior to renting the IADU.
                  WHEREAS, the Planning Commission noticed and conducted a public hearing on
            September 16, 2021, forwarded a recommendation to the Metro Township Council;
                     WHEREAS, legal notice was properly published;
                    WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council ("Council) met
            in a regular session on September 28, 2021 to consider this Ordinance;
            NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
            that:
DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




                     Section 1. Adopt. Title 19, Chapter 15 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code
                     is hereby adopted as indicated in Attachment A.

                     Section 2. Effective Date. This ordinance shall go into effect upon publication.

                              PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 28th Day of September 2021.



                                                              EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP



                                                                  By:
                                                                         Joe Smolka, Mayor

            ATTEST



            Sherrie Swensen
            Metro Township Clerk

            Voting

            Mayor Smolka voting                         Aye
            Deputy Mayor Hawkes                         Aye
            Council Member Brems                        Aye
            Council Member Harris                       Aye
            Council Member Bowen                        Aye




            Attachment A - Title 19, Chapter 15
DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




                     SECTION I. The amendments made here are designated by underlining the new

            substituted words. Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

                     SECTION II. Chapter 19.15 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code of

            Ordinances is enacted as follows in order to authorize internal accessory dwelling units in certain

            residential zones and to enact related regulations.

            19.15.010 Purpose.

            The Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration Canyon”) recognizes that Internal

            Accessory Dwelling Units in single-family residential zones can be an important tool in the overall

            housing plan for Emigration Canyon. The purposes of the Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit

            standards of this code are to:

                     A. Comply with pending State of Utah legislation which allows for Internal Accessory

                         Dwelling Units generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish

                         to regulate certain requirements of the dwellings;

                     B. Ensure that building permits or licenses are not issued for an IADU until the applicant

                         has provided written confirmation from the applicable water supplier that the IADU

                         complies with all applicable water service requirements.

                     C. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for

                         family members where independent living is desirable;

                     D. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;

                     E. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have

                         difficulty finding housing in Emigration Canyon;

                     F. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;




                                                              1
DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




                     G. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people

                         at a variety of stages in the life cycle;

                     H. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards

                         governing development of Internal Accessory Dwelling Units; and

                     I. Ensure that Internal Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring

                         property owners to obtain a business license and a building permit for an IADU prior

                         to renting the IADU.



            19.15.020 Definitions.

            "Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit" or “IADU” means an accessory dwelling unit created:

                     A. within a primary dwelling;

                     B. within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling

            unit is created; and

                     C. for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

            “Non-rental Use” means using an IADU for housing that does not include renting the unit to a

            third-party. Examples that fall under this use may include housing family members, caretakers,

            nannies, or other in-home employees.

            “Owner Occupancy” means a property where the property owner, as reflected in title records,

            makes his or her legal primary residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle

            registration, driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.

            "Primary Dwelling" means a single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary

            residence of the owner of record.

            19.15.030 Allowed areas and zones.



                                                                 2
DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




                 a. IADUs incorporated within the single-family residence shall be a permitted use on single-

                     family home lots in primarily residential zones.

                 b. The lot of the Primary Dwelling must be over 6,000 square feet.

                 c. In no case shall an IADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD or other

                     attached unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, or other conditions of the code.

                 d. There is no restriction on the size of the IADU withing the Primary Dwelling.



            19.15.040 Number of residents.

            IADUs shall not be occupied by more than four persons.

            19.15.050 Parking requirements.

            a.   In addition to the required parking for the existing home, the property owner must demonstrate

            that one (1) on-site parking space is available for an IADU.

            b.    A property owner bears the burden of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that

            sufficient parking is available.

            c. In cases where an existing attached garage is proposed to be converted to an IADU, replacement

            on-site parking spaces are required for the Primary Dwelling in a number equal to the parking

            spaces eliminated by such IADU.

            19.15.060 – Owner occupancy.

            The Primary Dwelling or the IADU must be owner occupied as the owner’s primary residence. .

            An application for an IADU shall include evidence of owner occupancy and primary residence.

            19.15.070 – Number of IADUs per lot.

            Only one IADU is allowed per lot.

            19.15.080 – IADU standards.



                                                               3
DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




                      A. An approved building permit is required for all IADUs before an IADU is constructed.

                      B. An approved building permit or an inspection is required for units already constructed,

                          and all other applicable provisions of this chapter and the Emigration Canyon

                          Municipal Code must be met before an IADU can be rented.

                      C. Existing non-compliant IADUs may come into compliance by receiving a permit and

                          verifying existing work was done according to code.

                      D. The IADU shall comply with all applicable building, fire, and health codes, including

                          applicable water service and sewer or septic requirements.

                      E. Conversions of an existing space to an IADU shall require compliance with safety

                          requirements per building code including, but not limited to, egress windows with

                          window wells in case of emergency, close off door(s) if needed between the IADU

                          and main unit, and sufficient HVAC and climate control for the IADUIADUs will not

                          require a separate HVAC or firewall.

                      F. Owner shall provide a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing

                          services.

                      G. Single-family residences with an IADU shall retain the same appearance as a single-

                          family residence.

                      H. IADUs shall not be located in detached structures connected by a breezeway.

                      I. No IADU may be located in a Primary Dwelling that is served by a failing septic tank.

            19.15.090 : Retention of single-family residence status

                     A. IADUs are part of a single-family residence and shall not be treated as a multi-family

                         residence.

                     B. IADUs shall not have a separate utility meter apart from the single-family residence.



                                                              4
DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




                     C. IADUs may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.

            19.15.100: Business licensing.

            Renting of any IADU, requires a business license. That license must be maintained and renewed

            annually as long as the unit is rented.

            19.15.110: Short-term rental use prohibited.

            Units approved as IADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals. Any rentals shall be made for 30

            consecutive days or more.

            19.15.120: Affidavit and Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit

            A. Upon approval of the IADU by the building official or upon the issuance of a business license

            pursuant to Section 19.15.130, a Notice of Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit including the

            affidavit shall be recorded against the property to provide notice to a future owner of the owner

            occupancy requirement for the IADU.

             B. The Notice shall include an affidavit by the Owner stating that the owner of the property will

            live in the Primary Dwelling as their primary residence.

            C. The Notice shall include

                     (i) a description of the Primary Dwelling;

                     (ii) a statement that the Primary Dwelling contains an internal accessory dwelling unit;

            and

                     (iii) a statement that the internal accessory dwelling unit may only be used in accordance

            with the regulations in this Chapter.

            D. Upon sale of the property, if the new owner wishes to continue use of a previously approved

            IADU, the new owner shall be required to sign and a new affidavit, update their information with




                                                              5
DocuSign Envelope ID: DC940619-8692-4E96-B647-BBDE18F750C5




            the planning and business license departments, and comply with current administrative IADU

            requirements.

            E. A copy of the notice will be provided to the applicant when recorded. .



            19.15.130 Remedies for Violations

            In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a municipality, Emigration Canyon

            may hold a lien against a property that contains an internal accessory dwelling unit in accordance

            with the provisions and procedures of Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-530, if the owner of

            the property violates any of the provisions of that Section or any of the

            provisions of this ordinance.

            19.15.140 Non-Rental Use of IADUs

            IADUs used for non-rental uses as defined in this chapter will follow the same approval process

            as all other IADUs including recordation of the Affidavit and Notice except that a business license

            is not required. Should an IADU used for non-rental uses later be rented, a business license must

            be obtained prior to doing so.

            19.15.150 Water Availability

            Applications for an IADU must include submittal of a written approval from the water company

            servicing the property stating that sufficient water is available for the IADU.



                     SECTION III.       This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.




                                                               6
