DocuSign Envelope ID: 93704D4A-30FF-4405-B722-B90093C6A2A2




                                                    ORDINANCE #2022– 01-01
               ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 12 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT FOR
                 METRO TOWNSHIP CODE VIOLATIONS AND AMENDING SECTION 1.12.010

                    WHEREAS, Utah Code 10-3b-501 vests the powers of municipal government with the
             Metro Township Council (“Council”) and Mayor; and

                    WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“ECMT”) Council has enacted
             ordinances to protect the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of life within the Town, and

                     WHEREAS, the Council finds that the enforcement of township ordinances, policies,
             regulations, and applicable state statutes is an important public function vital to the protection of
             the public's health, safety, welfare, and quality of life.

                 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
             TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:
                    SECTION I: Title 12 “Administrative Code Enforcement For Metro Township Code
             Violations,” Chapters 1, 2, 3, and 4 are enacted as written in Exhibit A.
                     SECTION II: Title 1, Chapter 12, Section 010 is amended as follows:
             1.12.010 Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions
                     Any person found to have violated any provision or provisions of an ordinance included
             in these revised ordinances, or in ordinances hereafter enacted, shall be deemed guilty of a
             misdemeanor or a civil violation of Township code, and punished as provided by Township code
             or state criminal code for Class B misdemeanors. The township has sole discretion in deciding
             whether to file a civil or criminal case for the violation of any of its ordinances.
                     Section III: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication.

                    PASSED AND APPROVED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council, Utah,
             this 25th day of January in the year 2022.


                                                             EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP



                                                             Joe Smolka, Mayor
             ATTEST:


             Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
                                            EXHIBIT A

            TITLE 12 – ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
               FOR METRO TOWNSHIP CODE VIOLATIONS

                               CHAPTER 12.1 – GENERAL
12.1.010       SHORT TITLE.
This Title shall be known as the “Administrative Code Enforcement for Metro Township Code
Violations.” This Chapter shall also be known as Chapter 12.1, of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Municipal Code. It may be cited and pleaded under either designation.

12.1.020      AUTHORITY.
The Metro Township promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702– 703.7;
10-3-716; 10-8-60; 10-11-1, et seq.; 76-10-801, et seq.; and any other applicable law or successor
statute(s).

12.1.030         DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council finds that the enforcement of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Municipal Code and applicable state codes throughout the municipality
is an important public service. Code enforcement and abatement of illegal or dangerous conditions
are vital to the protection of the public’s health, safety, and quality of life. The Council recognizes
that enforcement starts with the drafting of precise, comprehensive, fair, and equitable regulations
that can be effectively applied in administrative hearings and judicial proceedings. The Council
further finds that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination of judicial
and administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with these regulations in a manner that
is fair and equitable to the Metro Township and its citizens. Failure to comply with an
administrative code enforcement action may require the Metro Township Attorney to file a judicial
action to gain compliance.

12.1.040      SCOPE.
The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Code. It has been designed as an additional remedy for the Metro Township to use in
achieving compliance with its ordinances.

12.1.050        EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS CONTINUED.
The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any provision of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Code but shall be read in conjunction therewith as an additional mechanism available
for the enforcement of the Code together with any and all other applicable laws. If there is a conflict
between this Title and another provision of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code, this
Title shall control. The provisions of this Title and all proceedings hereunder shall be construed
to give effect to the purpose of this Title and to promote justice.

12.1.060        CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT.
The Metro Township has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case, or
both, for the violation of any of its ordinances. The pursuit of the administrative remedies set forth
in this Title shall in no way interfere with the Metro Township’s right to prosecute ordinance
violations as criminal offenses in a court of law. If the Metro Township chooses to file both civil
and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other
remedies will be available.

12.1.070      EFFECT OF HEADINGS.
Headings contained in this Title are for reference purposes and shall not be deemed to limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or interpretation of any part or provision
hereof.

12.1.080         VALIDITY OF TITLE – SEVERABILITY.
If any chapter, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this Title
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining portions
of this Title. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or hereafter made to this Title.

12.1.090       NO MANDATORY DUTY – CIVIL LIABILITY.
In establishing performance standards for or an obligation to act by Metro Township officers,
employees, or designees, the provisions of this Title shall not be construed as creating a mandatory
duty for purposes of tort liability.

12.1.100      GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES.
For purposes of this Title:

(1)   Any gender pronoun includes the pronoun for any other gender(s).

(2)   “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

(3)   “Or” is always inclusive.

(4)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.

(5)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and vice versa.

(6)   Words and phrases used in this Title, and not specifically defined, shall be construed
      according to their context and ordinary usage.

(7)   The term “include” is not exhaustive and does not create an exclusive list.

12.1.110        DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY.
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title, shall be constructed as defined in
this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and
specifically stated to apply:

(1)   “Abate” or “Abatement” means any action the Emigration Canyon Metro Township may
      take on public or private property and any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove
      or alleviate a violation, including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding,
      and securing or replacement of property.

(2)   “Administrative Code Enforcement Order” means an order issued by an Administrative Law
      Judge. The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and


                                                   2
      administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this Title and
      applicable state codes.

(3)   “Administrative Law Judge” or “hearing officer” means the position established by the
      Emigration Canyon Metro Township § Code 1.16 “Administrative Hearing.”

(4)   “Animal Control Administrator” means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division,
      established in Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code § 8.1.

(5)   “Chief Building Inspector” means the official responsible for planning, directing, and
      managing the building inspection activities within the Metro Township.

(6)   “Council" means the Council of Emigration Canyon Metro Township

(7)   “Code Enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
      administrative fees, and costs.

(8)   “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person to
      ensure compliance with the Metro Township Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action,
      or an administrative code enforcement order.

(9)   “County” means Salt Lake County, Utah.

(10) “Department” means the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department, or its designee.

(11) “Director” means the director of the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department or his/her authorized agent(s) or any other person/entity and their authorized
     agent(s) that the Metro Township has authorized to provide code enforcement services.

(12) “Enforcement Official” means any person authorized to enforce the Metro Township Code
     or applicable state codes.

(13) “Financial Institution” means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on
     a property.

(14) “Fire Department” means the entity that is authorized and responsible for providing fire and
     emergency services to the Metro Township.

(15) “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due
     to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act
     causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to performing required
     acts.

(16) “Imminent Life Safety Hazard” means any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
     immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.

(17) “Legal Interest” means any interest represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
     quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic’s lien, or other
     similar instrument recorded with the County Recorder.


                                                3
(18) “Metro Township” or “Municipality” means the area within the territorial municipal limits
     of Emigration Canyon Metro Township, and such territory outside of this Metro Township
     over which the Emigration Canyon Metro Township has jurisdiction or control by virtue of
     any constitutional or incorporation provisions or any law.

(19) “Minor violation” means nuisance violation, as defined by Utah state statute, regulation, or
     judicial opinion, to include:

      a.       Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning;

      b.       Unauthorized collections of unlicensed, unregistered, or inoperable motor vehicles;

      c.       Illegal dumping or accumulation of trash, litter, or weeds;

      d.       Nuisance noise and lighting;

      e.       Illegal advertising; and

      f.       The unauthorized erection and use of news racks, merchandise displays, mobile
               food vending, and other illegal uses.

(20) “Notice of Compliance” means a document issued by the Metro Township, representing that
     a property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(21) “Notice of Satisfaction” means a document or form approved by the Administrative Law
     Judge or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs
     have been either paid in full, or that the Metro Township has negotiated an agreed amount,
     or that a subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In
     addition to the satisfaction of the financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with
     the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(22) “Notice of Violation” means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that
     informs a responsible person of code violations and orders them to take certain steps to
     correct the violations.

(23) “Person” means a natural person or a firm, partnership, corporation, trust, or other
     association, or the authorized agent or employee of any of them, or any other entity
     recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.

(24) “Program” means the Administrative Code Enforcement for Metro Township Code
     Violations authorized under this Title.

(25) “Property Owner” means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor’s
     records.

(26) “Public Nuisance” means, in addition to the definition set forth in Utah Code § 76-10-801(1),
     any condition that constitutes a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, or that
     significantly obstructs, injures, or interferes with the reasonable use of property.

(27) “Responsible Person” means a person who has charge, care, or control of any premises,


                                                 4
     dwelling, or dwelling unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as
     an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all cases, the
     person with legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be considered a
     responsible person, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.

(28) “Treasurer” means the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Treasurer as designated
     pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-203.

(29) “Written” means transcribed in comprehensible words or pictograms, and includes
     handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile.

(30) “Emigration Canyon Metro Township” means Emigration Canyon Metro Township, a
     municipal corporation under state law. May also be referred to “the Metro Township” and/or
     “the Municipality” pursuant to Utah Code § 68-3-12.5(6).

12.1.111        ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING.
Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing, permitting,
aiding, or abetting such act or omission.

12.1.200       PART 2 – SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.

12.1.210       SERVICE OF PROCESS.

      A. Whenever service is required to be given under this Title for enforcement purposes,
         the document shall be served by any of the following methods, unless different
         provisions are otherwise specifically stated to apply:
              1. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the owner(s) or
                 other responsible person(s);
              2. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. If not
                 inhabited, the notice must also be mailed as in Paragraph A,1,a above. The
                 form of the posted notice shall be approved by the Town Ordinance
                 Enforcement Officer or his or her designee;
              3. Personal service pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 4(e)(1) or
                 rule 4(e)(5); or
              4. Published in a newspaper of general circulation where the identity or
                 whereabouts of the person to be served are unknown and cannot be
                 ascertained through reasonable diligence, where service is impracticable
                 under the circumstances, or where there exists good cause to believe that
                 the person to be served is avoiding service of process.
      B. Service by regular mail in the manner described above shall be deemed served on
         the third day after the date of mailing.
      C. If service complies with the requirements of this Section, it shall be deemed a valid
         service even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect
         the validity of any proceedings taken under this Title.


                                                5
      D. The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any
         proceedings.


12.1.220       CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS.
Whenever a document is recorded with the County recorder as authorized or required by this Title
or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information
contained in the recorded documents.

12.1.300       PART 3 – GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES.

12.1.310        GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
Whenever the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate
administrative enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The Director or any
designated enforcement official is authorized to enforce the provisions of the Metro Township
Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue notices of violation and
administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances and unlawful or
dangerous conditions upon public and private property, and use whatever judicial and
administrative remedies are available under the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes.

12.1.320        ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
The Administrative Law Judge shall develop and submit to the Metro Township Council for
approval such policies and procedures, relating to hearing scope and procedure, subpoena powers,
and such matters, as shall afford equal protection of the law to and protect the due process rights
of all parties.

12.1.330       AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.

      A. The Director or any designated enforcement official, may, enter upon any property
         or premises to ascertain whether there has been a violation of any of the provisions
         of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code or applicable state codes and to
         examine or survey the property or premises, or to take such samples, photographs,
         or evidence as may be necessary to this end.

      B. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be (a) based upon
         reasonable cause and (b) carried out in a reasonable manner with reasonable prior
         oral notice to the responsible person and the property occupant. If the responsible
         person requests it, the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant before
         entering upon the property or into the premises.

12.1.340       POWER TO ISSUE CITATION.
The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor citation
or administrative citation to a person whenever any such official has reasonable cause to believe
(1) that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code has been or applicable state codes have
been violated and (2) that the person to be cited is responsible for the violation.


                                                6
12.1.350        FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED.
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his or her
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with a duly authorized Metro Township official
or agent, including but not limited to the Director and/or any authorized enforcement officials,
when in the performance of his or her official duties under the provisions of this Title. A violation
of this Section is a class B misdemeanor.

12.1.360        FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA.
It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code
enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B
misdemeanor.

       CHAPTER 12.2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                          PROCEDURES
12.2.010      AUTHORITY.
Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the Metro
Township pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter.

12.2.20 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

      A. Whenever the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a violation
         of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist,
         the Director or enforcement official will issue a notice of violation to the responsible
         person. The notice of violation shall include the following information and shall comply
         with Utah Code § 10-11-2 or the applicable successor statute(s):

               1. Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County
                  Recorder;

               2. Street address of violation;

               3. Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;

               4. Date and approximate time the violation was observed;

               5. All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that
                  violates the applicable codes;

               6. A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently
                  correct outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs,
                  demolition, removal, eradication, destruction, or other appropriate action;

               7. A specific date by which the responsible party must correct the violations listed
                  in the notice of violation, which date shall be at least ten days from the date of
                  service unless the Director determines that the violation requires emergency


                                                 7
                  abatement under Section 12.2.200;

               8. An explanation of the consequences of failure to comply with the terms of the
                  notice of violation, which may include, but are not limited to, (i) civil penalties,
                  (ii) assessment of administrative fees or other costs incurred by the Metro
                  Township, (iii) recordation of the notice of violation, (iv) revocation of permits,
                  (v) withholding of future municipal permits, (vi) criminal prosecution, or (vii)
                  abatement of the violation by the City and the property owner’s repayment to the
                  City of the costs of the abatement; ;

               9. A statement that civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately upon expiration
                  of the date set in Subsection (A)(7) for correction of the violations;

               10. The amount of the civil penalty for each violation that will accrue daily until
                 the property is brought into compliance;

               11. An explanation of (i) the procedures to follow to appeal the notice and request
                 a hearing as provided in Section 12.2.530, and (ii) the consequences of failure to
                 request such a hearing; and

               12. An explanation of the procedures to follow to request an inspection after a
                 violation has been abated pursuant to Section 12.2.040

      B. More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible person, if
         it encompasses different dates, or different violations.

      C. If a notice of violation is issued on the same property for a violation of the same provision
         of the Metro Township Code or Utah law within 12 months following the later of (i) the
         date of issuance of the first notice of violation or (ii) the date of the request for inspection
         under Section 12.2.040 of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code, then the civil
         penalties associated with the second violation shall be doubled.

12.2.030       FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE.

      A. If the responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the compliance
         period specified in the notice of violation, civil penalties shall accrue for each and every
         subsequent day of violation.

      B. Civil penalties accruing pursuant to Subsection (1) shall be immediately due and payable
         to the Metro Township.

      C. Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C misdemeanor.

12.2.040         INSPECTIONS.
It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in writing
an inspection when his or her property has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence
that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties shall
accumulate daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Re-
inspection fees shall be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.


                                                   8
12.2.200       PART 2 – EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

12.2.210AUTHORITY.

      A. Whenever the Director determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists, the Director
         may exercise the following powers without prior notice to the responsible person:

              1. Order the immediate removal of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry
                 until all repairs are completed, provided that any order prohibiting entry shall
                 specify how entry is to be made to mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve
                 personal property, or for any other purpose, if any, during the abatement process.

              2. Post visible notice on the exterior of the property or structure that is deemed
                 unsafe that the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

              3. Board, fence, or otherwise secure the building or site;

              4. Raze or grade that portion of the property or premises necessary to prevent
                 collapse or remove any hazard to the public;

              5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent
                 life safety hazard; or

              6. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the imminent life safety hazard.

      B. The Director and his or her agents have the authority, based on cause, to enter the
         property without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts to
         abate the imminent life safety hazard.

      C. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the
         imminent life safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.220       PROCEDURES.

      A. The Director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as
         necessary to eliminate the immediacy of the imminent life safety hazard. Costs incurred
         by the Metro Township during the emergency abatement process shall be assessed and
         recovered against the responsible person through the procedures outlined in Chapter 12.3
         of this Title.

      B. The Director may also pursue any other legal remedy to abate any remaining violations.

12.2.230       NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.
Within 10 days after completion of an emergency abatement, the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township shall provide notice of the abatement action taken in accordance with the notice
provisions of Utah Code § 10-11-2(2). This notice shall describe in reasonable detail the abatement
action(s) taken and the cost thereof.



                                                9
12.2.300       PART 3 – DEMOLITIONS

12.2.310       AUTHORITY.
Whenever the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, he or she may
demolish or remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in Section
12.2.210 once appropriate notice has been given to the responsible person pursuant to the Uniform
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law,
provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Director’s findings explaining
the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable ordinances or laws authorizing the
demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the demolition. Such
costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.320       PROCEDURES.
Once the Director has determined that the Metro Township Chief Building Inspector or the Fire
Department has complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property
shall be demolished.

12.2.400       PART 4 – ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS

12.2.410       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor violations
of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal
remedy established by law that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes.

12.2.420       AUTHORITY.

      A. Any person violating any minor provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
         state codes may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as
         provided in this Part.

      B. A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the
         enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to the Metro Township Treasurer’s
         Office, or other offices designated to receive payment on behalf of the Metro Township.

      C. Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance
         with the procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

12.2.430.      PROCEDURES.

      A. Upon discovering any violation of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes,
         an enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to the responsible person in
         the manner prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The
         administrative citation shall be issued on a form approved by the Director.



                                                 10
      B. If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the
         business owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the
         enforcement official can only locate the manager of the business, the administrative
         citation may be given to the manager of the business. A copy of the administrative
         citation may also be mailed to the business owner or any other responsible person in the
         manner prescribed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

      C. Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to
         obtain the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person
         refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not
         affect the validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.

      D. If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation,
         then the administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner
         prescribed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

      E. If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted
         in a conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the
         responsible person in the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

      F. The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.

      G. The failure of any person with a legal interest in the property to receive notice shall not
         affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.

12.2.440      CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

      A. State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and

      B. Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid,
         and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.2.450       CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED.

      A. The Metro Township Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil
         penalties for administrative citations.

      B. Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the
         administrative citation. The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee
         Schedule.

      C. Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violation(s), nor shall it
         bar further enforcement action by the Metro Township.

12.2.500       PART 5 – HEARING PROCEDURES

12.2.510      DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code


                                                  11
enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code. It is
the purpose and intent of the Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly
affected by an administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to
participate in the administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the
administrative action. These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently,
expeditiously, and fairly resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.

12.2.520       AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS.
The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Metro Township Code violations.
The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the hearing
process for any violation of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are handled
pursuant to the administrative abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the
demolition procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If there is a conflict between the
appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in another code incorporated by the
Township, this Title shall control.

12.2.530REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.

      A. A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to request
         an administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 20 calendar
         days from the date of service of one of the following notices:

              1. Notice of violation;

              2. Notice of itemized bill for costs;

              3. Administrative citation;

              4. Notice of emergency abatement;

      B. The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Administrative Law
         Judge. The request shall contain the case number, the address of the violation, and the
         signature of the responsible party.

      C. As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the
         Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing.

      D. Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing
         and a waiver of the right to challenge the action.

12.2.540       HEARINGS AND ORDERS.

      A. If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 20-day
         deadline, the Director may request a default hearing, which the Administrative Law
         Judge shall schedule. The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place
         of the hearing by one of the methods listed in Section 12.2.210.




                                                 12
     B. A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil
        penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Metro Township before collection, if a
        hearing on that case has not already been held.

     C. At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to
        show that good cause exists, as defined in this Title, to do one or more of the following
        in addition to any other rights afforded under other provisions of the Metro Township
        Code or applicable law:

             1. Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;

             2. Postpone an abatement action by the Metro Township; or

             3. Excuse the responsible person’s failure to request a hearing within the 20-day
                period.

     D. If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions
        set forth in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of
        violation and any other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative
        Law Judge shall not accept any other evidence.

             1. If the preponderance of the evidence shows that the violations existed, the
                Administrative Law Judge shall enter an order requiring abatement of the
                violations, and the payment of all fines and fees. Fines shall accrue until the
                Director or other duly authorized representative of the Metro Township issues a
                Notice of Compliance stating the date on which the violations were actually
                abated.

12.2.550      NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
              HEARING.

     A. Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be served to the responsible
        person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing.

     B. The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and
        policies promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

     C. The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
        12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.560DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

     A. The responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law
        Judge for bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may
        be disqualified in a court of law. The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an
        affidavit or unsworn declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable
        successor statute(s) signed by the responsible person, which shall:

             1. State that the motion is filed in good faith;


                                                13
             2. Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other
                reason that would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and

             3. State when and how the responsible person came to know of the reason for
                disqualification.

     B. The responsible person must file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the
        action to an Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew
        or should have known of the grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.

     C. The responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law
        Judge, unless a second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible
        person did not know of and could not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.

     D. The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without
        taking any further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the
        motion to the Metro Township Council.

     E. Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Metro Township Council will schedule and
        notice the matter for review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The Metro Township
        Council may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold a special meeting to hear the motion
        before its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council shall first
        review the motion to disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs
        (1) and (2) of this Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements
        of this Section, the Council will deny the motion and remand the matter for review to the
        Administrative Law Judge for further proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies
        the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section, the Metro Township Council
        shall determine whether the motion is legally sufficient to warrant disqualification. If the
        Metro Township Council determines that disqualification is warranted, it will assign the
        matter to another Administrative Law Judge. If the Metro Township Council determines
        that the motion to disqualify is not legally sufficient, it will remand the matter back to
        the Administrative Law Judge.

12.2.570      POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

     A. The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if violations
        of Metro Township ordinances exist, order compliance with Metro Township ordinances,
        and enforce compliance as provided in this Title on any matter subject to the provisions
        of the Title.

     B. The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by
        one of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record
        the good cause on which a continuance is granted.

     C. The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign
        subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the
        witness for the admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the
        hearing. All costs related to the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be
        borne by the party requesting the subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop


                                                14
           policies and procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative code
           enforcement hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related costs.

     D. The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
        administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance;
        ordering compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any
        remedies available under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the
        right to authorize the Metro Township to enter and abate a condition and/or violation;
        modifying an administrative code enforcement order; or, where extraordinary
        circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.

     E. The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require the responsible person to post
        a code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code
        enforcement order.

12.2.580        PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                HEARING.

     A. Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal
        rules of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of
        discovery may be required. The request must be in writing. Failure to request discovery
        shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not
        be released unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing or such release is otherwise
        required by law. The procedure and format of the administrative hearing shall follow the
        procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

     B. The Metro Township bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement
        hearing to establish the existence of a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable
        state codes.

     C. The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues
        at an administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the
        violations exist.

     D. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence
        in support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may
        be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or
        other electronic means.

     E. All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape. Hearings may
        be held at the location of the violation.

     F. The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be
        representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney’s name, address,
        and telephone number must be given to the Metro Township at least one day prior to the
        hearing. If notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Metro Township’s
        request, and all costs of the continuance assessed to the responsible person.

     G. No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that


                                               15
           extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

12.2.590.       FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                HEARING.
Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement
hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, and will
result in a default judgment for the Metro Township, provided that proper notice of the hearing
has been provided.

12.2.591        ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.

      A. Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue
         an administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the notice or
         citation. The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of
         civil penalties and costs that are due pursuant to the Metro Township’s fee schedule and
         the procedures in this Title.

      B. The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties.
         This agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order.
         Entry of this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to
         appeal.

      C. The Administrative Law Judge may order the Metro Township to enter the property and
         abate all violations, including but not limited to demolitions and the removal of vehicles,
         garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation of the Metro Township Code.

      D. The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the
         right to possess animals as provided in the Metro Township Code.

      E. As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may
         condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person’s
         ability to complete compliance by specified deadlines.

      F. The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
         necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the
         administrative code enforcement order.

      G. The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance
         bond to ensure compliance with the order.

      H. The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing
         of the order.

      I. The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of
         the methods listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.595        FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.




                                                 16
     A. Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set
        forth in the administrative code enforcement order, the Metro Township may abate the
        violation as provided in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all appropriate legal means
        to recover the civil penalties and administrative costs to obtain compliance.

     B. After the Administrative Law Judge issues an administrative code enforcement order, the
        Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the actions taken to abate the relevant conditions
        and/or violations and determine compliance with the order.

12.2.600      PART 6 – ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS

12.2.610      APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
              DECISION.

     A. Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of the provisions of
        this Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court
        within 30 days after the decision is rendered.

     B. No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing
        officer’s decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.

     C. Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall
        request a copy of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when
        necessary. The Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts
        to the reviewing court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required costs.
        The petitioning party’s failure to properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the
        full costs for the record within 180 days after the petition for review was filed, shall be
        grounds for dismissal of the petition.

             1. If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is
                incomplete or unintelligible, the district court may, in its discretion, remand the
                matter to the Administrative Law Judge for a supplemental proceeding to
                complete the record. The district court may limit the scope of the supplemental
                proceeding to issues that, in the court’s opinion, need to be clarified.

     D. The district court’s review is generally limited to the record of the administrative decision
        that is being appealed.

     E. The district court shall:

             1. Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer’s decision and
                orders are valid; and

             2. Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary,
                capricious, illegal, or an abuse of discretion.
    CHAPTER 12.3 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
12.3.100      PART 1 –RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION



                                                17
12.3.110       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real property. The
Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the
issuance and recordation of notices of violation.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address the violation of the Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes.

12.3.120       AUTHORITY.
Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into
compliance as required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to record
the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder’s
Office.

12.3.130        PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION.

      A. Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the
         property remains in violation after the deadline for compliance established in the notice
         of violation, and no request for an administrative hearing has been filed, the Director
         shall record a notice of violation with the County Recorder’s Office.

      B. If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the Metro Township’s favor,
         the Director shall record the administrative code enforcement order with the County
         Recorder’s Office.

      C. The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the
         legal description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.

      D. The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested
         parties on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

12.3.140       SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION.
A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner
pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.3.150        FAILURE TO REQUEST.
The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when
served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing
and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.

12.3.160        NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE – PROCEDURES.

      A. When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person and/or property owner
         may request an inspection of the property from the Director.

      B. Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon


                                                   18
           as practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the
           order have been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final
           inspections have been performed.

      C. The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property
         owner in the manner provided in Section 12.2.210 of this Title, if the Director determines
         that:

      D. All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order has been corrected;

      E. All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

      F. All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and

      G. The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.

      H. If the Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the Director
         shall serve the responsible person and/or property owner with a written explanation
         setting forth the reasons for the denial. The written explanation shall be served by any of
         the methods of service listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.3.170       WITHHOLDING OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS FOR NONCOMPLIANT
               PROPERTIES.
The Metro Township may, in its sole discretion, withhold any municipal permit that has been
requested for a property that is in violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code until the
Director issues a notice of satisfaction for the applicable violation(s) pursuant to this Title. The
Metro Township may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of satisfaction or
that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations.

12.3.180        CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

The Director or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County
Recorder’s Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of
violation.

12.3.200        PART 2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES

12.3.210        AUTHORITY.

      A. Any person violating any provision of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state
         codes, may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.

      B. Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code or
         applicable state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil
         penalties.

      C. Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date
         and violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.



                                                  19
      D. Interest shall be assessed per Metro Township policy, or at the judgment rate provided in
         Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4 in the absence of a Metro Township policy, on all outstanding
         civil penalties balances until the balance has been paid in full.

      E. Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
         state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the Metro Township’s applicable fee schedule.

12.3.220       ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

      A. If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within ten days of service
         of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for each
         and every subsequent day of violation.

      B. Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of the Metro
         Township Code or applicable state codes for an administrative citation.

12.3.230       DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

      A. Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable Metro
         Township fee schedule.

      B. Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/have been brought into
         compliance with the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.240       MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

      A. Upon compliance with the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the
         responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties based on good cause
         as defined in this Title or other extenuating circumstances.

      B. Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge, in his or
         her discretion, if the Administrative Law Judge finds good cause for such modification
         or waiver.

12.3.250        FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.
The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the
Director pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.

12.3.300       PART 3 – ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION

12.3.310        AUTHORITY TO ABATE.
The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is authorized
to assess all costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available under
the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary within two years, treble costs
may be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement.

12.3.320       PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT.


                                                 20
     A. The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under
        Section 12.2.020 and by following the process set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or
        any applicable successor statute(s) if the responsible person:

             1. Does not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice issued
                pursuant to Sections 12.2.020 and 12.2.400, et seq.; and

             2. Did not file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing under
                Section 12.2.530.

     B. The Director may, in his or her discretion, request a default hearing pursuant to Section
        12.2.504, but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and may abate
        the violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or
        applicable successor statute(s).

     C. The Director may use Metro Township personnel or by a private contractor acting under
        his or her direction or the direction of the Metro Township to abate the violation.

     D. Metro Township personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a
        reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of violation
        or administrative code enforcement order.

     E. If the responsible person abates the violation before the Metro Township performs the
        actual abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement
        order, the Director may still assess all costs incurred by the Metro Township against the
        responsible person.

     F. When the abatement is completed, the Director shall prepare an itemized statement of the
        work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
        successor statute(s).

     G. The Director shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible person in accordance
        with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).

     H. The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by the responsible person in
        response to an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals
        and any related hearings in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
        successor statute(s).

12.3.400      PART 4 – COSTS

12.3.410      DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

     A. The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials
        and other Metro Township personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-
        inspecting properties throughout the Metro Township in an effort to ensure compliance
        with the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

     B. The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover


                                               21
           expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees,
           attorney fees, hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred
           by the Metro Township for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs
           shall not preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines
           for violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.420        AUTHORITY.

      A. Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Metro Township on a property to obtain
         compliance with provisions of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes, the
         Director may assess costs against the responsible person.

      B. Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any
         additional inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable
         Metro Township fee schedule as adopted in the Metro Township’s annual budget.

12.3.430        NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES.

      A. Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by the Metro Township shall
         be provided on the notice of violation served to the responsible person(s).

      B. Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any
         other costs assessed. Re-inspection fees shall be assessed after two failed inspections.

      C. The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not
         affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.

12.3.440        FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS.
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs, including re-inspection fees, by the deadline
specified in the invoice shall result in a late fee pursuant to Metro Township policy.

12.3.500        PART 5 – ADMINISTRATIVE FEES

12.3.510        ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs
incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for
hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fees assessed shall be the amount set in the
applicable Metro Township fee schedule.


12.3.600        PART 6 –- INJUNCTIONS

12.3.610        CIVIL VIOLATIONS – INJUNCTIONS.
In addition to any other remedy provided under the Metro Township Code or state codes, including
criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the Metro Township Code may
be enforced by injunction issued in the Third District Court upon a suit brought by the Metro
Township.



                                                  22
12.3.700       PART 7 – PERFORMANCE BONDS

12.3.710       PERFORMANCE BOND.

      A. As part of any notice, order, or action, the Director or Administrative Law Judge has the
         authority to require the responsible person to post a performance bond to ensure
         compliance with the Metro Township Code, applicable state codes, or any judicial action.

      B. If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the performance
         bond will be forfeited to the Metro Township. The performance bond will not be used to
         offset the other outstanding costs and fees associated with the case.

 CHAPTER 12.4 - RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES
                        AND COSTS
12.4.100       PART 1 – CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS

12.4.110        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of
civil penalties, administrative costs, and administrative fees assessed by the administrative code
enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The Council further finds that collection of civil
penalties, costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future
violations and maintaining the integrity of the Metro Township’s code enforcement system. The
procedures established in this Part shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial
remedies that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes.

12.4.120       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT.

      A. Once the Metro Township has abated a condition or violation on public or private
         property involving but not limited to weeds, garbage, refuse, or unsightly or deleterious
         objects or structures, the Director shall prepare three copies of the Itemized Statement of
         Costs incurred in the removal and destruction of the relevant conditions and deliver them
         to the Metro Township Mayor within 10 days after completion of the abatement.

      B. The Director shall send, by registered mail to the property owner’s last known address,
         a copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs informing him or her that a code enforcement
         tax lien is being recorded for the amount of the actual costs of abatement. Payment shall
         be due within 20 calendar days from the date of mailing.

      C. Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of costs, the Metro Township Mayor shall record
         a Code Enforcement Tax Lien against the property subject to the abatement action(s)
         with the County Treasurer’s office.

      D. The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive the
         notice of the lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to collect
         the outstanding costs of abatement.



                                                  23
12.4.130      PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT.
Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the
responsible person(s), the Director may record a code enforcement tax lien against any real
property owned by the responsible person(s).

12.4.140.       CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN.
Once payment in full has been received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the amount
is deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the Director shall
either record a Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment, or provide the property owner or financial
institution with the Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the
County Recorder’s Office. The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include the same
information as provided for in the original Code Enforcement Tax Lien. Such notice of satisfaction
of judgment shall cancel the code enforcement tax lien.

12.4.200       PART 2 – COLLECTION BY WRIT
After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means, including (a) filing a writ with an applicable court for execution on personal property
owned by the responsible person, or (b) the garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and
other income or financial assets by filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.400       PART 4 – ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER
               ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM

12.4.410        ABATEMENT FUND.
There is hereby established a revolving fund to be known as the “Abatement Fund” to defray costs
of administrative and judicial abatements. The fund shall be reimbursed by collection from the
responsible person and/or property owner as specified in this Title. The Emigration Canyon Metro
Township Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification,
credit, and collection. This fund may be operated and used in conjunction with procedures ordered
or authorized under the abatement provisions of this Title.

12.4.420.       REPAYMENT TO ABATEMENT FUND.
All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property or by payment for actual abatement
costs shall be paid to the Metro Township Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to
the Abatement Fund.

12.4.430         CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COST FUND.
Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected pursuant
to this Part shall be deposited in a fund established by the Metro Township Council. Fees and costs
deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the Metro
Township Council. The Metro Township Council shall establish accounting procedures in
consultation with the Metro Township Auditor to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection.

12.4.440        ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Metro
Township. Civil penalties deposited in the fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner
determined by the Metro Township Council. The Metro Township Council shall establish

                                                24
accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and collection.




                                                25
