RESOLUTION #2023- 04-02
RESOLUTION FINDING HAZARDOUS ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND
RESTRICTION OF FIREWORKS WITHIN ALL PORTIONS OF EMIGRATION
CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP

WHEREAS, Utah Code §53-7-225, prohibits the discharge of Class C common state
approved explosives (fireworks) except around certain holidays including beginning on July 2
and ending on July 5, and beginning on July 22 and ending on July 25;

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 15A-5-202.5(1)(b) allows municipalities to “close a defined
area to the discharge of fireworks due to a historical hazardous environmental condition” if the
“historical hazardous environmental condition has existed in the defined area before July 1 of at
least two of the preceding five years;”

WHEREAS, the fire official for Emigration Canyon Metro Township (“Emigration
Canyon’) has found that existing hazardous environmental conditions have existed within
Emigration Canyon before July 1 of at least two of the preceding five years. (see Letter From
Fire Marshal dated April 22, 2023, and previous years’ letters attached as Exhibit A);

WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council (“Council’’) finds that the
Township, throughout all areas, contains innumerable mountainous, brush-covered, forest
covered, and dry grass-covered areas which historically and, for at least two of the preceding five
years before July Ist, are in an extremely flammable condition;

WHEREAS, if existing or historical hazardous environmental conditions exist within the
boundaries of the Township, Utah Code §15A-5-202.5 allows the Council to prohibit the ignition
and use of fireworks while these conditions exist in the following areas: (1) mountainous, brush-
covered, forest covered, or dry grass-covered areas; (2) within 200 feet of waterways, trails,
canyons, washes, ravines, or similar areas; (3) wildland urban interface area, which means the
line, area, or zone where structures or other human development meet or intermingle with
undeveloped wildland or land being used for an agricultural purpose; or (4) a limited area outside
the hazardous areas;

WHEREAS, the Council finds that the entire Emigration Canyon Metro Township
consists of the above listed hazardous areas and a map of the Township is attached hereto as
Exhibit B;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:

Se_ tion I: Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Ann. 15A-5-202.5, and based on the
findings as noted above, the use of Class C fireworks are hereby restricted in all areas of
Emigration Canyon Metro Township as shown in the attached map in Exhibit B.

Section I : Effective Date. This resolution shall be effective upon receipt of the attached
map (Exhibit B) by Salt Lake County and publication of the Resolution by the Township Clerk.

PASSED AND APPROVED by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council, Utah,
this 2 t day of April in the year 2023.

EMIGRATION CANYO RO TOWNSHIP
6e Smolka, Mayor
ATJEST:
i Township Clerk
Exhibit A: Letter From Fire Marshal dated April 22, 2023.
Exhibit B: Map of Existing Hazardous Conditions in the Township of Emigration Canyon.
(Entire Township)

NA

|
April 22, 2023
To: Emigration Canyon Metro Township
You have requested guidance from me as to your historical environmental conditions as they
may impact your legislative bodies’ evaluation of fireworks restrictions this season.
As the Emigration Canyon Metro Township is located entirely within a wildland interface area
or the type of area described in Utah Code §15A-5-202.5(1)(b)(1), and in or adjacent to US
Forest Service lands, both historical and expected conditions present extreme hazardous fire
potential during this fireworks season. The entire area of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township has experienced these extremely hazardous environmental conditions in two of the
last five years (in fact every year of the past five years). | fully expect such conditions may
continue throughout the fireworks season this year.
Given the history, factors, and conditions, | have determined, as the fire code official, that
hazardous environmental conditions historically and currently exist that necessitate the
controlled use of ignition sources in the entirety of Emigration Canyon Metro Township. These
conditions have existed in perpetuity given the location (mountainous, brush covered, forest
covered, etc.) and as the Fire Code Official for Unified Fire, | recommend that your entity
restrict ignition sources, including fireworks, and prohibit their use throughout the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township.
Please feel free to contact our office should you have any questions.
Brad Larson
Fire Marshal / Unified Fire Authority
4965 S Redwood Rd / Taylorsville, UT 84123
801-743-7227 o / 801- 200-4935 c
blarson@unifiedfire.org
3380 South 900 West m Salt Lake City, UT 84119-4102 m (801) 743-7200 m www.unifiedfire.org

>
?
DocuSign Envelope ID 0AC2F198-246C-4954-B4DA-187A4A7071A4 * . .
Emigration Creek Watershed - Overview Ma
, 4 (ookout’ Peak
Legend ' . .
<
Emigration Creek [| Watershed Boundary | ea

ee Culvert Re sak . ; 7

. meme Creek y * \

\
| ;
\, ‘=
\ >
| -
+ at ~ »
f a 4 :
. -, be
, ‘ :
I" \ < » , ¥
* ' ¥, . 2 Cite MSUatain Pass) { a a Little Dett
( > . ‘ yar .
Cee 7 :
~“ =< - -

. a reek > “lr < > Mountain Deli g

+. tc Rotary Glen Park cae = . ~ ; / =<

0 1 2 . & = ‘s
