EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. [{5C/, Mal 23 2019
A ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 2.56 OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE
CODE CONCERNING COMMUNITY COUNCILS IN THE TOWNSHIP
RECITALS
| A. Utah State Code section 10-2a-414 provides that when a metro township is
incorporated that each county ordinance that is in effect on the day that metro township is
incorporated will remain in effect as a metro township ordinance until the metro township
council amends or repeals the ordinance.
B. The current code applicable in the Township establishes procedures and processes
regarding the establishment of a community council in the Township.
C. The Township Council desires to amend the provisions to fit the form of government
in the Township and preserve the existing community council for the Township.
ORDINANCE
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:
I. The current code Title 2 Chapter 2.56 - COMMUNITY GREATER SALT LAKE
MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICTS AND COMMUNITY COUNCILS is hereby amended to
read as found in the attached Exhibit A. All provisions of the current Chapter 2.56 that are not
show in the attached exhibit are repealed.
II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code 10-3-
711.
III. The Salt Lake County Clerk acting for the Township and municipal recorder/clerk pursuant
to Utah Code 10-3c-201(1)(a)(ii) is hereby authorized to provide appropriate title, chapter, part,
and section numbers for the provision of this ordinance and pursuant to Utah Code 10-3-713
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, this ordinance, along with all
ordinances passed by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
1

IV. The recorder shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not already so
done.
V. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah, this 2° day of My, 2019.
MAYOR - :
x)

ATTEST: Joe Smolka

Voting:

Council Member Paine Y

Council Member Smolka yY

Council Member Hawkes y

Council Member Brems y

Council Member Bowen y

2

EXHIBIT A
|
3

Chapter 2.56 - COMMUNITY Councils AND COMMUNITY COUNCIL Districts
Sections:
2.56.010 - Purpose.
2.56.020 - Establishment.
2.56.030 - District boundaries.
2.56.040 - Amendment of districts.
2.56.045 - Boundary disputes.
2.56.050 - Community council—Representation.
2.56.060 - Community council—Participation.
2.56.065 - Community council—Meetings & public forums.
2.56.070 - Community council—Election of members.
2.56.090 - Community council—Municipal services recommendations.
2.56.100 - Community council—Planning and zoning recommendations.
2.56.110 — Community council—Budget.
2.56.120 — Community council—Emigration Canyon Metro Township council
participation.
2.56.130 - Community council—Volunteer status—Indemnification.
2.56.010 - Purpose.
The purpose of establishing a community district and recognizing the community
council in the Emigration Canyon Metro Township is to provide for formulating and
presenting recommendations on actions within the authority of the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township (including those of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
and the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission) which affect the
community by force of law or practice.
2.56.020 - Establishment.
A. A community council is created by private citizens as private corporations,
associations or otherwise, and is not created by the Emigration Canyon Metro

1

Township. A privately created community council may be recognized by the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township as provided in this chapter.
2.56.030 - District boundaries.
The geographical boundary of the ECCC shall be defined as the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township boundary shown on a map of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township. It is a priority that the Emigration Canyon Community Council represent
perspectives and voices from residents throughout the canyon.
2.56.050 - Community councils—Representation.
A community council consisting of residents who reside in the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township may be elected pursuant to the requirements of Section 2.56.070 and
pursuant to the community council's bylaws. All members of the community council
shall serve without compensation and for terms established in the Community Council
bylaws. Vacancies on the community council shall be filled in accordance with the
community council's bylaws. In the event of failure to meet responsibilities of
community council membership or of egregious behavior, members may be removed
from the community council, as specified in the community council’s bylaws. All
community council meetings shall be open to the public. No individual shall serve
concurrently on the community council and on the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
Council or on the Emigration Canyon Metro Township planning commission.
2.56.065 - Community council meetings and public forums

2

A. The community council shall conduct open and public meetings and forums and
they shall permit interested persons to attend and participate in those meetings in
accordance with applicable council bylaws and regulations. Meetings shall be
conducted in accordance with rules defined in the bylaws of the community council.
B. The community council shall publicly post a current schedule of its meeting times,
places and dates, and the names, addresses and phone numbers of the current
community council chairman and the designated planning and zoning representative.
2.56.070 - Community council Governance and Election of members.
A. The community council is governed by its bylaws, which are made publicly
available through its website. Members of the community council shall be elected by
nonpartisan secret ballot that is open to all residents of the canyon and held every two
years. Nomination and election procedures, notice requirements and terms of office
shall be specified in the bylaws of the community council and publically available to
canyon residents. The ECCC shall notify the EC Metro Township Council of changes
to its bylaws and changes in election procedures.
2.56.090 - Community councils—Municipal services recommendations.
A. The community council shall be encouraged to develop priorities regarding
municipal services and facilities for its community district. The community council is
encouraged to arrive at such recommendations pursuant to duly held and well-
publicized public meetings. These recommendations should be communicated in
writing to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council on an annual basis for use
3

in policy development and in the budget process. Additional recommendations may
be considered by request to the Township Mayor to place such items on the agenda
for regularly scheduled Emigration Canyon Township Council meetings.
2.56.100 - Community councils—planning and zoning recommendations.
A. Through the Municipal Services District, the county planning and development
services division shall submit to the chair of the community council copies of the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township planning commission public meeting agendas,
applications for text changes to the zoning ordinance, Zoning or conditional use
applications, and lot subdivision applications pertaining to territory located within
Emigration Canyon Metro Township and applications for extraordinary relief and
exceptions pursuant to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Code of Ordinances.
The community council may request that the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
planning commission continue an application for a period not to exceed four weeks
from the first meeting when such application is heard by the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township planning commission, or until the next community council meeting,
whichever occurs first, to allow the community council to consider the application at its
own meeting. The above procedure may be amended by mutual agreement between
the Emigration Canyon Metro Township planning commission and the community
councils individually to eliminate frivolous or unnecessary delays.
B. With the agreement of the EC Metro Township Council, the staff of the county
planning and development services division shall act as the staff to the community
council on planning and zoning matters, and shall also arrange meetings between the
applicants and the community council when so requested.

4

2.56.110 - Budget.
A. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township council may budget monies for the
community council, which will be spent for administrative costs, including, but not
limited to, legal notices, elections, newsletters, computers and software, other office
equipment, dues, Emigration Canyon Metro Township sponsored community events
and community council outreach activities or events, postage, stationary, and
duplication costs. Funding will be provided pursuant to annually budgeted amounts
and upon direction of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council. The community
council may, at its discretion, raise funds from other source consistent with the
principals of ethics and conflict of interest as described in the ECCC bylaws.
B. The community council shall establish a fiscal year in their bylaws aligned with that
of the Metro Township Council. If any funding is requested, written budget requests
will be made to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council by July 31st of each
year. Within ninety days following the close of the community council's fiscal year, it
shall file a detailed financial statement with the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
council. The statement shall set out community council revenues and expenditures for
the prior year and shall be in a form approved by the county auditor.
2.56.120 - Emigration Canyon Metro Township council participation.
Public participation by representatives of the community council in regular meetings of
the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council is encouraged. In addition, the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township council shall schedule at least one meeting

5

annually with the community council for the purposes of receiving recommendations
on policy, budget and other priorities established by the community council.
2.56.130 - Volunteer status—Indemnification.
Community council members shall be considered volunteers to the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township and not employees, officials or officers of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township. Community council members shall be defended and indemnified by the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township pursuant to the provisions of the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act in any civil action which may arise within the course and
scope of performance of their duties as volunteers under this chapter.

6
