Ordinance No. 2024-12-01 Date: December 17, 2024
AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL AMENDING
SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURES
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a municipality and has authority to regulate subdivisions in
general pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-9a-601 et seq.; and
WHEREAS, revisions to the existing Subdivision Ordinance of Emigration Canyon are required
to comply with Senate Bill 174 (2023); and
WHEREAS, revisions to the existing Subdivision Ordinance of Emigration Canyon are required
to comply with House Bill 476 (2024); and
WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon has authority to adopt subdivision regulations and procedures
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-501 or identify other statute or ordinance that provides
authority in accordance with the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Title
10, Chapter 9a, Utah Code, to establish an administrative land use authority for subdivisions and
other provisions as necessary and appropriate to comply with Senate Bill 174 (2023) and House
Bill 476 (2024); and
WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances accordingly, and for the
protection and preservation of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL as follows:
1. Title 18 is repealed and replaced to read as shown on Attachment A to this Ordinance.
2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this Ordinance
is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific application of this
Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.
3), Direction. Staff are authorized and directed to make such non-substantive changes and take
other actions required to finalize, post, and publish this Ordinance.
4. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and publication
as required by law.
[execution on following page]

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 17" day of December 2024.
orcs CANYON COUNCIL
y: Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
MM) Vode,
i¢ole Smedley, Re ode} olly McIZean, Legal Counsel
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting AY
Council Member Pinon voting /
Council Member Harris voting /
Council Member Hawkes voting Att
Council Member Brems votin
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance symmary was published in accordance with Utah Code §10-3-711:
Meher Keke» 1%, JOR.
Effective date of ordinance: — /<&

SUMMARY OF
EMIGRATION CANYON
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-12-01

On December 17th, 2024, the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No. 2024-12-01,
amending its subdivision provisions procedures as set forth in Title 18 of the Emigration Canyon
Code.
EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST: TD. AS TO FORM:

Lipa Syooales

Nicole Smedley, Re¢éorder /] Polly MclAan, Legal Counsel
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting f é
Council Member Pinon voting 4/
Council Member Harris voting 4/0
Council Member Hawkes voting ELD
Council Member Brems voting Ip
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-12-01 is available in the office of the Emigration Canyon
Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N3-600, Salt Lake City, Utah.

ATTACHMENT A

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
Chapter 18.04 - Subdivision Plans and Plats Required

Sections:
18.04.010 - Subdivision Plats Required.

| No person shal-may subdivide, as defined by the Emigration Canyon Code, any tract of land within the
jurisdictional limits of the Emigration Canyon; nor shall any person sell, exchange, purchase or otherwise
convey a parcel of land which is part of a larger tract, if such sale or agreement would have the effect of
creating a "subdivision" as defined by the Emigration Canyon Code, unless and until a final plat, prepared
in accordance with the provisions of this ti#eTitle, shalthavehas been reviewed and approved by the
appropriate decision making body consistent with this ti#/e Title and recorded in the Office of the Salt Lake

County Recorder.

18.04.020 — Exemption from Plat Requirements.

A. Adivision of property that complies with the following standards is exempt from plat requirements:

1. The original property qualifies as land in agricultural use under Utah Code Ssection 59-2-502-0f
the-Utah-code; and
2. Each resulting parcel will comply with the minimum lot size requirement of the applicable zone in
which the property is located; and
| 3. The property does not contain any existing residential units and each of the resulting parcels will
not be used for nonagricultural purposes; and
| 4. The boundaries of each lot or parcel is graphically illustrated on a record of survey map, in
accordance with Utah Code Section 17-23-17, that is presented to the Emigration Canyon. Upon
approval of the parcel by the Director or Designee the record of survey map shall be recorded
with the Salt Lake County Surveyor in addition to a subsequent notice of interest referring to the
affected parcels and record of survey index with the Salt Lake County Recorder; and
5. Ifa parcel exempted under Section 18.04.020 is used for a nonagricultural purpose, that lot or
parcel shall comply with the platting and improvement requirements of this Title.

B. Parcel Boundary Adjustments. Parcel boundary adjustments are exempt from plat requirements. A
"nyarcel boundary adjustment" means a recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:

1. No additional parcel is created; and
2. Each property identified in the agreement is unsubdivided land, including a remainder of
subdivided land.

18.04.030 — Lots Created by Metes and Bounds Description.

A. Inorder to ensure the accurate location of property lines and the location of future construction and
land uses within those property lines; ensure the orderly dedication of rights of way for public
thoroughfares; and facilitate the orderly transfer of ownership of buildable lots, no property created

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
| by a “metes and bounds” description and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder shat! may be
considered eligible for the issuance of a building permit unless:

1. The property is recognized as a legal lot of record by the Director or Designee, meets all current
zoning standards, and a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the cermmunity
developmentdDirector or his-er her Designee and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder;

2. The property has been recognized by the Director or Designee as a legal nonconforming lot of
record, a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the Director or Designee and the plat
is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder; or

3. The division of property by a “metes and bounds” description is permitted by the applicable law.

| B. Aplat authorized by this sectien-Section shall be prepared in accordance with the Final Plat
requirements of this Title. The improvements required by this Title 14 and 18 of the Emigration

Canyon Code shall be installed at the property owner or applicant’s expense.

C. Ifa property qualifies as a legal lot of record or a legal nonconforming lot of record and is already

| developed with a dwelling unit, no plat shalt beis required. However, a street dedication may still be
required when the private right-of-way does not align with the existing public right-of-way.

18.04.040 — Development Agreements.

A. The developer/property owner and Emigration Canyon may choose to enter into a development
agreement that outlines the duties, responsibilities, obligations, commitments and promises of the
developer/property owner and the commitments of Emigration Canyon.

B. A development agreement does not exempt a developer/property owner from complying with this
Title or any part of the Emigration Canyon Code unless such an exemption is clearly contained within
the executed development agreement after the Planning Commission has held a public hearing and
provided a recommendation.

C. The development agreement shall be recorded by Emigration Canyon at the Salt Lake County

| Recorder’s office. Recordation by Emigration Canyon shalt+may only take place after all of: the

Planning Commission makes a positive recommendation based on the review of Planning and

Development Services and the Municipal Engineering Division, all necessary signatures are obtained,

| all other approvals given, and all bonds and fees posted. The development agreement must-shall be

recorded prior to the recording of the final plat. The Emigration Canyon Council may approve a

development agreement as a legislative action. Consideration of a development agreement is

separate from any consideration of or decision of a preliminary or final subdivision application or plat.

D. Any development agreement entered into by a developer/property owner and Emigration Canyon

| shall comply with the provisions identified in Utah Code §Section 10-9a-532.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
Chapter 18.06 - General Regulations

Sections:

18.06.010 - Time Limits.

Subdivision applications are subject to expiration according to the following schedule unless, for good

cause shown, the applicant is granted an extension of time by the Director:

A. A subdivision application expires if the applicant has not filed all of the required documents for
preliminary plat approval with Planning and Development Services within six (6) months of the
submission of a complete application.

B. A preliminary plat approval expires if a complete final plat application is not submitted to Planning
and Development Services within one (1) year of the preliminary plat approval.

C. A preliminary subdivision with an approved phasing plan is granted an automatic preliminary
subdivision extension of one (1) year each time a complete final plat application for one or more
phases is submitted.

D. A subdivision application and final plat approval expires if the final plat has not been recorded with
the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office within six (6) months of the date of the mayers-last of the
required signatures on the plat.

E. Failure to pursue an application, as evidenced by failure to file a complete application, the lack of

| timely resubmittals to the Development Review Committee’s comments and corrections, or failure to
communicate delays in a timely manner, shall result in the expiration of the application after six (6)
months of inaction.

18.06.020 - Exceptions—Permitted When.

A. In cases where unusual topographic, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions exist or the welfare,
best interests and safety of the general public will be usefully served or protected, variations and
exceptions of this Title may be made by the administrative land use authority at preliminary approval
after the recommendation of the Municipal Engineer as provided in Subsection B, provided, that such
variations and exceptions may be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and
without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this Title.

B. Any variation or exception from required engineering standards in this Title must be based on a
recommendation by the Municipal Engineer and shall address the following:

1. Strict adherence to this Ordinance is not in keeping with sound engineering practice;

2. The variation or exception is the minimal variation or exception to this Ordinance to keep with
sound engineering practice; and

3. The variation or exception is associated with a specific hardship at a specific location and not a
generally applicable condition.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

18.06.030 - Appeals.

The applicant or any person adversely affected by a final decision on a subdivision may appeal the decision

to the Land Use Hearing Officer by filing a letter with Planning and Development Services stating the

reasons for appeal within ten (10) calendar days after the decision. The Land Use Hearing Officer shall

review the record and the decision to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.

After hearing the appeal, the Land Use Hearing Officer may affirm, reverse, alter or remand the decision

for further consideration. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any appeal from the Subdivision Improvement
| Plans shall comply with Utah Code-Ana- Sections 10-9a-604.2(8) and 10-9a-508(5)(d).

18.06.040 — Definitions.

All terms pertaining to the development or division of land as defined in Chapter 19.04 of the Emigration

Canyon Zoning Ordinance shall also be applicable to this Title.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
Chapter 18.08 — Procedure for Approval of a Subdivision

Sections:

18.08.010 - Approval Authority.

A. The Planning Commission is the administrative land use authority for all subdivisions.

B. In accordance with Utah Code §-Section 10-9a-604.1, the Council may not consider or approve a
subdivision plat as part of its approval of a legislative action.

C. The Director is the administrative land use authority for boundary line adjustments, subdivision
amendments that do not include the creation of additional lots subject to Chapter 18.18.

D. A final subdivision plat application may only be approved by the Director, and only upon approval by
all members of the Development Review Committee and all major utility providers. Any
correspondence from a municipal agency, employee, or officer other than the Planning Commission
for preliminary approvals, and the Director or Designee for review cycles and final approvals, directly
with an applicant may not be deemed Emigration Canyon’s response to the application for purposes
of determining review cycles.

18.08.020 - Review Procedures — Director to Administer.

In order to ensure that each subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this Title, the Director or

Designee shall administer formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application shat}

may not be deemed complete until the full application, fees and all required materials have been

submitted to Planning and Development Services. The payment of a partial fee and submission of
conceptual plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.

18.08.030 — Development Review Committee.

The Development Review Committee (DRC) is the Planning and Development Services Staff, in

consultation with agencies with statutory review and approval authority for engineering, health, fire,

and surveying reviews and services. Comments from other affected entities, service providers or other
reviewing agencies may also be solicited as needed. The Development Review Committee is an
extension of the Director and serves as the Director's Designee with the following responsibilities:

A. Establish subdivision application forms, checklists and standard operating procedures;

B. Review development applications including concept plans, subdivisions, commercial site plans and
project plans;

C. Provide recommendations to the Planning Commission and/or Council regarding development
applications that require their approval;

D. Review subdivision final plats and construction drawings, and to approve, approve with conditions
or deny final plats and construction drawings; and

E. Hold pre-construction meetings for approved subdivision plats and other applicable development
projects.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

18.08.040 - Subdivision Procedure, Generally.

The applicant shall prepare and submit a land use application, including fees, in accordance with this Title

and Planning and Development Services policy. The applicant may submit a concept plan. While the

concept plan is optional except under the circumstances provided herein, a preliminary and a final plat
are required.

18.08.050 - Concept Plan.

A. Any person seeking to subdivide land within the municipal boundaries may request a pre-application
meeting or concept plan review. Emigration Canyon highly recommends a pre-application concept
plan review meeting prior to submitting a Preliminary Subdivision Plat Application. A preapplication
concept plan meeting is optional, is not a land use application for the purposes of vesting, and does
not count toward the maximum number of review cycles for subdivision land use applications. Within

| fifteen (15) business days after the request, the ety-Planning and Development Services Staff
committee-shall schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.

B. The purpose of a Concept Plan review is to provide a potential applicant with an economical way to
work with the Planning and Development Services Staff in reaching a general agreement as to the
nature of a proposed land subdivision project, its impact on the community, and its conformance with
the codes, ordinances, plans and policies. For the Concept Plan review, the potential applicant will not
need detailed architectural or engineering drawings.

C. An applicant may submit a concept plan if the applicant desires to obtain input from Planning and
Development Services Staff prior to undertaking the preparation and submission of a complete
preliminary plat.

D. Prior to a Concept Plan review, the applicant shall submit to the Director or Designee a complete
Concept Plan application, including documents, fees, any items specified under Section 18.10.020,
and any other matter appropriately required by the Development Review Committee.

E. When the Concept Plan application is accepted by the Director or Designee the date of acceptance
will be noted. The Development Review Committee shall, within fifteen (15) business days of
acceptance, schedule a meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.

F. At or before the scheduled pre-application meeting, Emigration Canyon shall provide the applicant
with, or make available on its official website, the following:

1. Copies of applicable land use regulations, including this Chapter;
2. Acomplete list of standards required for the proposed project;
3. Preliminary and final application checklists; and

4. Feedback on the concept plan.

G. Where the applicant owns or controls more real property than they propose to submit for preliminary
or final approval, or under circumstances where the proposed subdivision is part of a larger project or
real property which the applicant owns or controls and which includes property in more than one
zone,

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

the Director or Designee may require that a concept plan covering the larger area be submitted. The

concept plan for the larger area shall show how the immediate development relates to:

1. Possible development of the remaining real property;

2. Emigration Canyon’s adopted transportation plan, street plan, or street layout; and

3. The provision of other public services, utilities and facilities.

H. Ifthe Director or Designee concludes that, because of the scope or complexity of a proposed project,
the proposal should be reviewed by the administrative land use authority at the concept plan stage,
they may direct that the plan be forwarded for review by the administrative land use authority prior to
the preparation of the preliminary plat.

|. Any review of a concept plan by the administrative land use authority shall be considered as advisory

| only and shall may not constitute a commitment of approval of a subsequent preliminary plat or final
plat.

18.08.060 — Preliminary Plat Application.

A. Application. The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat application to the—Planning and
Development Services-Bivision, which shall include:

1. Submission of an approved application form that clearly indicates the type of application, property
address, applicant information, and other pertinent information;

| 2. Submission of a Preliminary—preliminary Plat-plat_and other drawings and documentation
conforming to the requirements of Section 18.10.030, technical reports in accordance with
Section 18.10.050, supplementary materials as required by this Title and mailing labels (if
required) for notifications, including a copy of all plans in PDF format;

3. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner and, if applicable, authorized
agent, in the form of an owner’s affidavit; and;

4. Subdivision improvement plans;

5. All items required on the Preliminary Subdivision Application Checklist published on Emigration
Canyon’s official website.

| B. Completeness Review.

1. The Preliminarypreliminary Platplat application, including those items comprising the subdivision
improvement plans, shall be carefully reviewed by the-Planning and Development Services
Divisien-to determine whether or not it is complete as soon as practical after submission.

2. If it is concluded that the Preliminary Plat application is not complete, the Director or Designee
shall notify the applicant in writing within fifteen (15) business days:

a. That the application is incomplete: and
b. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

3. Uper-After notice being-is given, an application deemed incomplete shatt-te, automatically
terminated-terminates after sixty (60) calendar days if the necessary components to complete the
application have not been submitted.

4. Atany time during the completeness review process outlined in this subsection, a pre-application
meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or Designee to discuss the application,
plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the review process, the
Director or Designee may invite representatives from other reviewing agencies as well as the
applicant’s design professionals to the meeting.

C. Complete Application.

1. When the Preliminary Plat application is determined to include all the of the required
documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director or Designee will
release the fees for the applicant to pay.

2. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application is complete, and the application
will be deemed accepted by the Director or Designee. The date of acceptance will be noted for
the record.

18.08.070 — Submittal ofSubdivision Improvement Plans, Engineering Drawings and Documents to

the Development Review Committee with Preliminary Plat Application.

A. Purpose. The purpose of the review of the subdivision improvement plans is to present an accurate
depiction of the layout of the subdivision so that it can be properly recorded and then used as a
permanent reference for the sale of the property included within the Subdivisiensubdivision. The
purpose of the final plat review is to ensure that the plat and the construction plans for the required
improvements, including those comprising the Subdivision Improvement Plans as defined in Utah
Code Section 10-9a-604.2, meet the applicable standards and specifications.

B. Subdivision Improvement Plan Submissions.

1. The applicant shall submit the subdivision improvement plans to ¢he-Planning and
Development Services Dision, which shall include:

| a. Submission of an application form, as designed by the Director or Designee to clearly indicate
the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other pertinent
information;

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
b. Submission of subdivision improvement plans and other drawings and documentation
conforming to the requirements of Section 18.10.040, technical reports in accordance with
Section 18.10.050, engineered construction plans for the improvements required in Chapter
18.14, and supplementary materials as may be required by this Title;
c. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner or authorized agent; and
d. Any other drawings or other information or documentation required by the Development
Review Committee.
C. Technical Review of the subdivision improvement plans and Construction Documents. The Director or
Designee shall review or cause to be reviewed, the complete subdivision improvement plans and
| application and Censtruction-construction Deeuments-documents as follows:
1. No later than forty (40) business days after the day on which an applicant submits a complete
subdivision application including subdivision improvement plans, the Development Review
Committee shall review the plat and/or construction plans, and prepare review comments.
| 2. The Director or Designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats and technical
documents for compliance with municipal land use ordinances, codes and adopted plans and

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
specifications and other technical requirements. As part of this review, the Director or Designee
| may conduct one or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code $Section 10-9a-303.

3. The Director or Designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats and technical
documents to the Development Review Committee and any other government agency and/or
affected entity which the Director or Designee deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the public and to ensure the project’s compliance with all applicable design standards
and specifications, ordinances, codes and adopted plans and specifications and other technical
requirements.

4. No later than forty (40) business days after the submittal of a complete subdivision plat
application including subdivision improvement plans, or revised plats, plans or reports addressing
previous Development Review Committee comments, the Director or Designee shall provide all
written comments to the applicant.

5. Upona determination that the application is consistent with applicable standards and conditions,

| the BRC-Development Review Committee shall provide a written letter of approval to the
applicant.

6. If an applicant proposes material changes to the preliminary plat at any time after approval, the
Director or Designee may, but need not, restart the review cycle with respect to those portions
affected by the material changes and direct the administrative land use authority to consider
preliminary approval of the portions affected by the material change. Material changes include an
increase in the number of proposed lots, changes to the location and/or configuration of streets
including stub streets, and/or other changes deemed material by the Development Review
Committee.

7. If an applicant contests any requirements imposed by the BRC-Development Review Committee
as part of the subdivision improvement plans approval, the applicant may appeal the conditions
of approval to the land use hearing officer in accordance with Section 19.20.030.

18.08.080 — Preliminary Plat Development Review Committee Review.
| A. The purpose of a preliminary plat is to provide a review of a proposed subdivision prior to approval
by the land use authority. It is intended that this review will help assure that the plans which are being
| prepared are in accordance with all applicable development codes and ordinances.
B. The Director or Designee shall review or cause to be reviewed, the complete preliminary plat
application as follows:

1. For every submittal, the Development Review Committee shall complete initial review as provided
for in this section of the Preliminary Plat, and preparation of review comments within thirty (30)
business days. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Development Review Committee may provide

| review comments on the Subdivision Improvement Plans after providing the initial review
comments, provided that the review comments on the Subdivision Improvement Plans are
provided within forty (40) business days of receipt of a complete application, as provided in this
chapter.

2. The Director or Designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats and technical
documents for compliance with municipal land use ordinances, codes and adopted plans and
specifications and other technical requirements. As part of this review, the Director or Designee

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
may conduct one or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code Section 10-9a-303.

3. The Director or Designee shall refer the application materials, plans, plats, subdivision
improvement plans, and technical documents to the Development Review Committee and any
other government agency and/or affected entity which the Director or Designee deems necessary
to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to ensure the project’s compliance
with all applicable ordinances, codes and adopted plans and specifications and other technical
requirements.

4. No later than fifteen (15) business days after submittal of a complete preliminary subdivision
application, the Director or Designee shall provide all written comments to the applicant.

5, Upon preliminary approval by the Development Review Committee, the Director or Designee shall
schedule the application for review by the administrative land use authority.

6._ The Development Review Committee, Director, or Designee, may not engage in substantive review
of subdivision improvement plans at any time prior to the beginning of the review cycles for
subdivision improvement plans during preliminary plat approval.

18.08.090 — Preliminary Plat Approval or Disapproval.

A. Following a review of the preliminary plat, the administrative land use authority, as designated in
Section 18.08.010, shall act on the preliminary plat as submitted or modified. In addressing the
questions in Subsection B, the land use authority shall refer to the ordinances in effect at the time
that the applicant submitted a complete preliminary plan application.

1. The application shall be reviewed by the administrative land use authority at a public meeting.

B. In reviewing the proposed subdivision, the administrative land use authority shall consider the
following:

1. Are the plans, documents and other submission materials (including technical reports where
required) sufficiently detailed for proper consideration of the project?

2. Do the submitted plans, documents and submission materials conform to applicable municipal
standards?

3. Does the proposed development conform to municipal zoning ordinances and subdivision design
standards?

4. Does any combination of natural or manmade conditions, encumbrances, easements, setbacks,
geometry, or the dimensions of the lot leave an adequate buildable area for a reasonably sized
main structure?

5. Do any natural or manmade conditions exist on or in the vicinity of the site defined in the
preliminary plat that, without remediation, would render part or all of the property unsuitable for
development? Does the preliminary plat address these conditions?

6. Does the preliminary plat provide for safe and convenient traffic circulation and road access to
adjacent properties under all weather conditions?

7. Does the preliminary plat impose an undue financial burden upon the municipality?

8. Are the location and arrangement of the lots, roads, easements and other elements of the
subdivision contemplated by the preliminary plat consistent with the municipality’s general street

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
system, transportation master plan and/or applicable elements of the general plan?
9. Does the preliminary plat recognize and accommodate the existing natural conditions?

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

10. Are the public facilities, including public utility systems serving the area defined in the preliminary
plat adequate to serve the proposed development?

11. Will the project contemplated in the preliminary plat conform to the purpose and intent of this
Title as stated in Chapter 18.02?

C. The administrative land use authority may:

1. Approve the preliminary plat;

2. Approve the preliminary plat with reasonable conditions intended to ensure compliance with the
standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title;

3. Continue review of the preliminary plat, directing that changes be made to the preliminary plat
so that it conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone and this Title; or

4. Deny the preliminary plat because it does not meet the standards and objectives of the applicable
zone and this Title.

D. If the plat conforms with the standards and objectives of the applicable zone, all required standards
and specifications, and this Title and has been approved by the culinary water authority and the
sanitary sewer authority, or the Salt Lake County Health Department where culinary water or sanitary
sewer services are not available, the administrative land use authority shall approve the preliminary
plat.

E. If the preliminary plat is not approved, the Director or Designee shall notify the applicant in writing
and give reasons for the denial.

F. When the preliminary plat is approved by the administrative land use authority, the Director or
Designee shall issue a preliminary plat approval letter with the conditions of approval and a copy of
the approved preliminary plat. The receipt of said letter shall be authorization for the applicant to
proceed with the preparation of additional specifications for the minimum improvements required in
Chapter 18.14 of this Title and with the preparation of the final plat.

18.08.100 — Review, Approval, and Recording the Final Plat.

A. The purpose of the Final Plat of a subdivision is to present an accurate depiction of the layout of the
Subdivision so that it can be properly recorded and then used as a permanent reference for the sale of
the property included within the Subdivision.

B. The following actions must be taken within six (6) months of final plat approval, or the applicant must
reapply for preliminary plat approval:

1. The subdivision plat shall be recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder; or
2. If applicable, a Site Restoration/Durability Bond shall be posted with Planning and
Development Services and a preconstruction meeting has been held with the Development
Review Committee prior to recording the final plat.

C. The Director may grant a one (1) year extension provided the final plans have been updated to meet
any changes to the applicable ordinances and standards that may have been updated or changed
since the time of the Final Plat Approval.

D. Prior to recording the Final Plat, the develeperapplicant shall:

1. Pay any remaining fees, and

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
2. Provide Planning and Development Services with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest,
and penalties owing on the land have been paid; and
3. Complete all required improvements and post a durability bond in accordance with Chapter 18.16.
The required improvements shall all be inspected, approved and accepted by the Municipal
Engineering staff; or
4. Post a performance guarantee and a durability bond in accordance with Chapter 18.16 and in an
amount determined by the Municipal Engineering Division.
E. The final plat shall include all the required approval signatures (Planning Commission representative,
Director, the Salt Lake County Health Department, district attorney, mayor, or their designees).
F. The applicant shall make an appointment with Planning and Development Services Staff to record the
final plat in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.
18.08.110 - As Built Drawings.
Prior to the final acceptance of the required improvements the applicant shall provide the Municipal
Engineering Department a complete and accurate set of as-built drawings in an electronic format
acceptable to the Municipal Engineer.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
Chapter 18.10 — Documentation Requirements
Sections:
18.10.010 — Document Submittal Requirements.
All subdivision applications shall include, at a minimum, the documents identified in the preliminary and
final subdivision application checklist posted on the Emigration Canyon Official website.
18.10.020 - Concept Plan Specifications.
At a minimum, the following information and materials should be provided as a part of the Cencept
concept Plan plan application package:
A. Anaccurate and up-to-date preliminary survey map of the property proposed for subdivision;
B. A vicinity map at a scale of 1:600 showing the property in relation to the general area of the
jurisdictional limits of Emigration Canyon in which it is located;
C. Aschematic plat drawn clearly and accurately by a design professional at a scale appropriate for the
nature of the project, to include:
1. Scale, North Arrow, and Date of Preparation;
2. Approximate topography;
3. All primary and secondary conservation areas;
4. Existing man-made features on the property;

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

5. Proposed streets, lots, public areas, open spaces, greenbelts, buffers, amenity areas, and other
significant proposed improvements;

6. Zoning setbacks, and the approximate area of each lot;

7. Any other features that will be important in the design and development of the project; and

8. Any off-site improvements that may be needed to properly develop the property.

D. A Grading and Drainage Plan which includes a conceptual plan for how excess storm water will be
managed per Chapter 17.20 requirements;

E. Typical floor plans and elevations of the houses that are planned for the proposed subdivision; and

F. AConcept Plan Review fee

18.10.030 - Preliminary Plat Required Information.

The preliminary plat shall contain the information specified in this section and comply with the following

requirements:

A. Description and Delineation. In a Title block located in the lower right-hand corner of the plat, the
following shall appear:

1. The proposed name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by Planning and
Development Services;

2. The location of the subdivision, including:

a. Address;

b. Section, township and range, base and meridian;

c. When applicable, the name and phase of the recorded subdivision being amended; and
d. Municipality and County.

3. The names and addresses of the owner, the applicant, if different than the owner, and of the
designer of the subdivision; and

4. The date of preparation, scale (no less than one inch to equal one hundred feet) and the north
point.

B. Existing Conditions. The plat shall show:

1. The location and elevation of project benchmark(s) referenced to published Salt Lake County
Surveyor datum and its spatial relationship to existing Public Land Survey System monuments or
their accessories;

2. The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy line and the total
approximate acreage encompassed thereby;

3. All property under the control of the applicant, even if only a portion is being subdivided. Where
the plat submitted covers only a part of the applicant’s tract, a sketch of the prospective street

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
system of the unplatted parts of the applicant’s land shall be submitted, and the street system of
the part submitted shall be considered in the light of existing street system, general street plans,
other applicable studies and adopted transportation plans.

4. The location, width, names and jurisdiction of all existing streets within two hundred feet (200’)
of the subdivision and of all prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-
of-way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or
permanent easements and section and municipal service district boundaries, within and adjacent
to the tract;

5. The location of all wells, proposed, active and abandoned, and of all reservoirs within the tract
and to a distance of at least one hundred feet (100’) beyond the tract boundaries;

6. Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the tract and toa
distance of at least one hundred feet (100’) beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe sizes,
grades, manholes, elevations, and exact location;

7. Existing and proposed realignment of ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and open
waterways,

8. Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided land, showing ownership and
parcel identification number;

9. Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2’). Highwater levels of all watercourses,
if any, shall be indicated in the same datum for contour elevations;

10. All existing fire hydrants within five hundred feet (500’) of the proposed subdivision, including any
proposed to be located within the subdivision; and

11. Accurate locations of all natural features such as lakes, ponds, perennial and ephemeral streams,
creeks and other natural drainages, stormwater runoff channels, gullies, State Waters, Wetlands,
floodplain boundaries, riparian buffers, Wildlife, Priority, or other sensitive Habitats (as identified
by the Department of Natural Resources), and other significant features, and notations
designating any federal, state, or local regulatory agency permits or approvals that are or may be
required relative to development of or around such features.

12. Agraphic depiction of existing slope characteristics of the property, illustrating the following:

a. Areas with slopes less than thirty percent,
b. Areas with slopes thirty to forty percent,

c. Areas with slopes forty to fifty percent, and
d. Areas with slopes greater than fifty percent;

13. Identified natural hazards, including but not limited to, areas potentially subject to avalanche,
liquefaction, and/or surface fault rupture;

C. Proposed Subdivision Plans. The subdivision plans shall include:

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

1. The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of (designated by actual or
proposed names and numbers) proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements;

2. The layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of lots, and designation of buildable areas on
individual lots.

3. Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside for
use of property owners in the subdivision;

4. Building setback lines, including showing dimensions where required by the land use authority;

5. Typical street cross sections. The required street cross sections may be submitted as a separate
sheet or as part of the construction plans. Grade sheets may be required by the Planning
Commission or other reviewing agency;

6. Atentative plan or method by which the applicant proposes to handle stormwater drainage for
the subdivision.

D. Phasing.

1. Where a applicant proposes to submit a final plat containing less real property than shown on
the preliminary plat, indicating a phased development plan, the preliminary plat shall identify
each of the proposed phases. Any such final plat phasing scheme shall occur at logical "break
points" in the project and provide access and utility services which will be adequate in the
event that subsequent phases do not occur. The phasing scheme shall also incorporate the
provisions of Chapter 18.12 of this Title.

2. Aphase shall not include two or more non-contiguous areas on the same plat.

3. No phasing scheme shall have the effect of leaving a residual lot, non-conforming parcel or
previously divided land for which the required subdivision improvements have not been
previously constructed. For purposes of this Title a "residual lot" shall be defined as a zoning lot,
created by the proposed subdivision, but which is not shown as a lot on the final plat of the
subdivision project or as future development. A future development parcel must be developable
into multiple lots meeting the area standards for the applicable zone.

4. _\f any requirement of this Title and the applicable standards is proposed to be satisfied by
relation to or incorporation of components of another phase or related development, the
applicant shall enter into a development agreement with Emigration Canyon governing the
applicable phases or related developments or modify the application to satisfy all requirements
independently.

E. Where required, evidence of any agreements with adjacent property owners relative to the
subdivision development shall be presented to Planning and Development Services in writing prior
to its approval of the plat. These agreements shall include, but not be limited to, those relative to
drainage, easements, protection strips and improvement bonds.

18.10.040 - Final Plat Required information.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

The final plat shall be prepared by a Professional Land Surveyor licensed in Utah on a sheet of approved
reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black ink. The plat shall be oriented so that the
top of the sheet is either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing best. All text shall be a
minimum of one-tenth inch in size. The plat must contain all information required on the preliminary plat
with the exception of contours and construction information, utilities (except existing and proposed fire
hydrants), structures and fences (unless called monuments).

A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:

1. The approved name of the subdivision;

2. North arrow and graphic scale. The minimum scale is 1”=100’;

3. ALegend defining all lines and symbols used on the plat;

4. Lotaddresses, and approved street names and numbers;

5. The plat drawing must agree with the boundary description;

6. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe
boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other important
features. Boundaries, lots and streets shown as solid lines, with outside subdivision boundary lines
indicated as a heavier, more substantial line than lot, street and easement lines. Easements
shown as dashed lines;

7. The lengths of lot lines and boundary lines shown as decimals of a foot with a precision of 0.00’;
Bearings and angles will be shown as Deg/Min/Sec with a precision of 0°00’00”. Additional
precision may be necessary to meet closure requirements;

8. Bearings and distance to provide a mathematical closure of 0.01’ on exterior subdivision boundary
and 0.02’ or less, on all lots and centerline of streets;

9. Basis of bearing between two, or more, public land survey monuments; or between identified
monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat;

10. Survey ties to public land survey monuments, and where applicable, to identified monuments ina
recorded subdivision or street dedication plat, showing measured and record - if different;

11. The accurate location of all survey monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the
appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks, survey
monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in precise
position and in compliance with Utah Code 17-23-14 and Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter
14.17;

12. The clearly labeled point of beginning;

13. The sum of the lot line distances along the exterior of the plat must equal the boundary distance;

14. Existing and proposed streets within two hundred (200’) feet. Dimension street width and identified
street ownership;

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

15. Recording information of adjoining subdivisions. Ownership with parcel identification numbers of
adjoining lots and parcels;

16. The dimensioned relationship between existing and proposed utility easements with proposed lot
lines. Include recording reference(s) of existing easements and provide a utility approval line for
proposed easements;

17. All curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and length
of all arcs, identified at correct location or in a curve table;

18. Centerline control on existing streets, matching the County’s record data. New street monuments
will be installed per the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s monument permitting process as specified in
Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter 14.17;

19. The dedication to the Emigration Canyon of all streets and highways included in the proposed
subdivision. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public
agent or utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such streets
shall be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form
approved by the municipal attorney;

20. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release by the
applicant’s engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved by
Planning and Development Services. Standard precast monuments, rings and lids shall be installed
through the Salt Lake County Surveyor monument permitting process (SLCo Ord Chapter 14.17);

21. Physical markers shall be placed at each outside boundary corner, in accordance with state
statutes and industry standards; and verified to be in their correct location(s) according to the
plat;

22. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes and industry
standards;

23. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for
common uses of all property owners; and

24. Buildable area subject to Subsection 18.12.020.C. Designations of Buildable Areas.

B. Boundary Description. The boundary description shall include:

1. A caption with reference to current vesting deed(s), location by Quarter Section, Township &
Range, Base & Meridian, and if applicable, existing lot(s) and subdivision(s);

2. Asurvey tie to an existing Public Land Survey monument, or a recognized street or subdivision
monument;

3. All necessary bearings, distances and curve data to complete the description and provide a
mathematical closure of 0.01’ (one hundredth) of a foot or less;

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

4. Narrative (bound) calls to and along adjoining subdivisions, parcels, streets, and rights of way as
necessary to define the intent of the description;

5. Recording reference to any additional easements required for property access where applicable;
and

6. Total development area in square feet (0.00) and acres (0.000).

C. Standard Forms for the Following. Emigration Canyon may adopt a template establishing the excepted
format of the final plat, which shall at a minimum require:

1. A Professional Land Surveyor’s certificate of survey;

2. The owner's certificate of dedication;

3. Anotary public’s acknowledgement;

4. The land use authority’s certificate of approval;

5. The Salt Lake County Health Department’s certificate of approval;

6. Planning and Development Service’s certificate of approval;

7. The municipal attorney’s certificate of approval;

8. The mayor's certificate of approval, witnessed by the municipal recorder/clerk;

9. The County Surveyor’s record of survey acknowledgment block; and

10. Aone and one-half by five-inch (1.5” x 5”) space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing for
the Salt Lake County Recorder’s use.

D. The final plat may require written acknowledgment of any legal documents recorded at the Salt Lake
County Recorder’s Office completed as part of the approval process for the subdivision. The
acknowledgment shall include the recorded number of the document after it has been recorded at
the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

18.10.050 — Technical Reports Required.

A. The following technical reports are required for all subdivisions as part the preliminary plat
application:

1. Soils Report. The report shall include, but is not necessarily limited to, information with respect
to slope analysis, general soils classification, suitability for development, erosion potential, any
recommendations for proposed methods of mitigating any constraints determined to be present
as part of the development plan, and any adverse impact on the natural environment.

2. Stormwater, Grading And Drainage Plan: The plan shall include, but is not necessarily limited to,
information on groundwater levels, identification and mapping of drainage channels and systems,
floodplains, existing details and contours where modification of terrain is proposed, the direction
of proposed drainage flow, proposed plans and the location of all surface and subsurface drainage
devices to be constructed as part of the proposed development, erosion control measures during

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
the course of construction, identification of any grading and drainage problems such as the
alteration of natural drainage patterns and any other problems of the proposed development,
and a plan to mitigate or eliminate such problems and any adverse impact on the natural
environment.
B. The following technical reports are required for subdivisions in geological hazards areas subject to

the Geological Hazards Ordinance in Title 19:

1. Geotechnical And Geology Report (Global And Site Specific): The report shall include, but is not
necessarily limited to, identification and mapping of the location of major geographic and geologic
features such as fault traces, surface ruptures, zones of deformation, potential slide and other
high hazard areas such as mine shafts and avalanche paths, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed development, recommendations
covering the adequacy of sites proposed for development, and any potential adverse impact on
the natural environment. This report shall be completed by a geotechnical engineer or an
engineering geologist. The geotechnical report shall contain a certification in accordance with

| section 18.30.090 of this cedeCode.

The geotechnical investigation shall include soil borings extended to a depth sufficient to define
the soil stratigraphy, water table and other features within the zone of significant stress of the
proposed structural footings of the proposed development. If the development needs evaluation
of slope stability then the soil borings will extend deep enough to define all soil layers in the zone
of possible slippage.

If published geologic maps show possible faults in the area or a surface geologic examination
reveals signs of faulting then the geotechnical investigation will be supplemented by trenching in
addition to the soil borings. The trenches will be so located as to intercept the apparent fault at a
perpendicular angle to the trend of the fault. The trenching will extend a minimum of twenty feet
(20’) each side of the located fault. Developments of two (2) acres or more will require at least
two (2) trenches to define the fault. One trench will be approximately where the fault enters the
property and the other where it leaves the property. The trenches will be excavated to a depth
that will define the fault and allow physical observation and measurement to be taken.

2. Natural Conditions And Vegetation Analysis And Preservation Plan: This report and plan shall
include a survey of existing trees, large shrubs and ground covers, a plan for the proposed
revegetation of the site, detailing existing vegetation to be preserved, new vegetation to be
planted and any modifications to existing vegetation, and the identification of any vegetation
problems and recommendations as how to mitigate or eliminate such problems and avoid
potential adverse impact on the natural environment.

3. Fire Protection Report: The report shall include, but not be limited to, identification of potential
fire hazards, mitigation measures, access for fire protection equipment and proposed fire flow
capability.

C. The scope and content of these required technical reports and plans shall be in accordance with
adopted standards. The Municipal Engineer may waive the necessity for submitting one or more of
the technical reports or any elements of a report where, in its opinion, conditions associated with the

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

proposed development do not require consideration of the subject matter covered. Also, where the

lot is contained within an approved subdivision and the technical reports previously submitted as part

of the subdivision approval process are sufficient in scope and detail to adequately address the issues
required under this Chapter, this requirement may be waived.

18.10.060 - Final approval—GIS Data Required.

A. Prior to the final approval and the issuance of any permit associated with a subdivision or
development plan, or in the case of a single lot development or a single building permit, the owner or
developer shall provide to Planning and Development Services the GIS data corresponding to the
approved plans for all improvements required by Subsection 18.14.020(B). Any changes during
construction will require additional GIS data to be submitted with the final approved as-built drawings.
All GIS data shall be submitted in the following format:

1. All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with County Policy 1013, "Standards for
Geographic Information System" and the "Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS
Standards,” as approved by the Salt Lake County GIS Steering Committee and on file with Salt Lake
County Engineering. The municipality reserves the right to reject any GIS data that is provided and
is not in compliance with the above standards.

2. This shall be done at the developer or owner’s expense. If a developer or owner does not provide
the required GIS data, the municipality may complete the work on the developer or owner’s
behalf and the developer or owner shall pay to the municipality the cost of completing the work
at the hourly rate approved by the municipal council for such work. If the developer or owner fails
to pay for such work, the municipality may pursue legal action to recover these costs.

3. Developers or owners with a cost as estimated by the Municipal Engineer of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) or less may, prior to construction, petition the Director or Designee for an exemption
from the GIS requirements of this Chapter. The decision of the Director or Designee shall be final.

B. GIS data will be required for the following improvements:

1. Roadway system: Regulatory signs, street signs, centerlines, curb and gutter, sidewalks,
crosswalks, ADA ramps, striping, road width, and monuments; streetlights and signals (including
conduit and electrical boxes for streetlights and signals).

2. Storm drain system: Catch basins, manholes, fire hydrants, cleanout boxes, drainage areas,
detention basin inlets and outlets, culverts, detention basin area, stormwater quality BMPs, and
pipes.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
Chapter 18.12 - Design Standards

Sections:

18.12.010 - Departmental Standards.

A. Standards for design, construction specifications and inspection of street improvements, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the Municipal
Engineering and Flood Control Divisions; standards for water distribution and sewage disposal
facilities shall be prepared by the Salt Lake County Health Department, and similar standards for fire
hydrants shall be prepared by the fire department. All applicants shall comply with the standards
established by such departments and agencies of Emigration Canyon, provided that such standards
shall be approved by the legislative body.

B. Subject to the provisions of Utah State Code §10-9a-508, no adopted design or construction sta ndards
shall have the effect of requiring the installation of pavement on a residential roadway at a width in
excess of thirty-two feet (32’).

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

18.12.020 - Foothill and Canyons Design Standards, Generally.

The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to streets, blocks, lots, open

spaces and other design factors shall conform with the standards contained herein.

A. Design Shall Further Purposes and Goals of the Emigration Canyon Zoning Ordinance. In subdivisions
proposed for development in Emigration Canyon, the general layout of lots, roads, driveways, utilities,
drainage facilities, and other services within the proposed subdivision shall be designed in a way that
minimizes the amount of land disturbance, maximizes the amount of open space in the development,
preserves existing trees/vegetation, protects critical wildlife habitat, and otherwise accomplishes the
purposes and intent of the foothills and canyons design regulations.

B. Zoning Development Standards. Applicants shall comply with the development standards set forth in
Title 19 in (1) the layout of the subdivision and (2) the designation of buildable areas on individual lots
(see subsection C of this section) in order to avoid creating lots or patterns of lots that will make
compliance with such development standards difficult or infeasible.

C. Designations of Buildable Areas. All preliminary subdivision plans shall outline buildable areas on each
lot intended to accommodate planned principal and accessory structures. A building envelope shall be
identified for each lot. Future construction on the lot is encouraged, but not required to be located
within the identified building envelop for each lot; however, construction outside of the designated
building envelop shall comply with the setback requirements for a conventional development. Where
the buildable area is restricted in some manner beyond setback requirements due to easements, slopes,
ridgeline restrictions, floodplains, geological hazards or other natural or legal obstacle or encumbrance,
the Director or Designee may require the buildable area to be outlined on the final plat.

D. Clustering of Lots. Clustering of lots within a subdivision is strongly encouraged and may be required
by the Planning Commission to meet the requirements of this provision and the overlay zone.

E. Conformance with Design Standards. The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision
in relation to streets, blocks, lots, open spaces and other design factors shall conform with the
standards contained herein to the extent that they do not conflict with this Section.

18.12.030 - Streets and Roads, General Criteria.

A. Width. The width of the hard surfacing and the location and type of other required street
improvements shall be as set forth on the applicable street cross section.

B. Relationship To Adjacent Streets. The proposed street system shall properly align and be compatible
with adjacent streets. Offset intersections shall be avoided whenever possible, and any intersecting
street with an offset of more than fifteen feet (15’) shall be prohibited. The distance between
intersections shall not be less than one hundred fifty feet (150’) for local streets. This provision shall
not apply to existing streets unless the development includes the realignment of existing streets.

C. Street Names. New street names may not duplicate those already existing within Salt Lake County. A
street obviously a continuation of another already in existence should bear the same name. Before
the street is named, the proposed name must be submitted to and approved by Planning and
Development Services.

D. Access To Adjacent Properties. In order to facilitate the development of an adequate and convenient
circulation system within Emigration Canyon and to provide access for the logical development of

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

adjacent vacant properties, the municipality may, as a condition of approval, require the subdivision

plan to include one or more temporary dead end streets (stub streets) which extend to the boundary

of the subdivision. All such stub streets shall be fully developed to the boundary of the subdivision.

Any plan for the subsequent development of the adjacent property shall provide for the continuation

of any such stub street.

E. Temporary Dead End (Stub Streets). Where a final plat includes a dead end stub street which is
intended to be continued into adjacent property in the future and which serves as the primary access
for one or more adjacent lots, said final plat shall make provision for temporarily accommodating
vehicular movement and the extension of utility services by designating temporary cul-de-sacs,
turnaround areas, travel easements connecting the end of the stub street with other streets in the
vicinity or such other temporary measure as may be approved by the Planning Commission. Such
temporary facilities required pursuant to this provision shall remain until such time as the street has
been extended into the adjacent property and the improvements accepted by Emigration Canyon.

F. Cul-De-Sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall be discouraged.

1. Cul-de-sacs may be appropriate in cases where the possibility of future adjacent development
does not exist due to topography or existing development, or where an additional through street
would be unnecessary where the road cannot be extended through the property to another street
elsewhere, where development has occurred on at least three (3) sides of the surrounding
property, or where other special circumstances exist, as determined appropriate by the
administrative land use authority after receiving a recommendation for the same from the
Municipal Engineer in accordance with best practices. When permitted, permanent cul-de-sacs
shall be designed in accordance with adopted standard drawings, each cul-de-sac stem shall meet
the standard street requirement including right of way, pavement width, gutter, curb, and
sidewalk within residential subdivisions. The maximum length of a cul-de-sac street shall be five
hundred feet (500’) from the center of the cul-de-sac to the centerline of the intersecting street.

2. The land use authority may require a sidewalk or trail connection through a cul-de-sac to allow
for pedestrian connectivity to existing or future adjacent development and/or public streets.

G. Vehicle Access. Subdivision projects of twenty (20) lots or more shall provide at least two (2) points of
vehicular access.

18.12.040 — Blocks (Reserved)

18.12.050 - Lots.

A. Design. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable
sites for buildings and be properly designed according to topography, the character of surrounding
development, and to existing requirements. Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely
to provide necessary square footage which would be unusable for normal purposes.

B. Zoning Conformity. All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats must conform to the minimum
requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements of
the Salt Lake County Health Department and Emigration Improvement District for water supply and
sewage disposal. Lots created as part of an approved

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
planned unit development, or subject to a development agreement are subject to the standards set
forth in that approval or document.
C. Frontage.

1. Each lot ina subdivision shall abut upon and have access to a street which is:

a. Dedicated to the municipality by the subdivision plat;

b. An existing publicly dedicated street;

c. Anexisting public street which has become public by right of use;

d. Anexisting private street that has been approved by the municipality; or

e. Have an approved access via private right of way to a public street shown on the plan and
approved under the criteria outlined in Subsection 2 of this Section.

2. Emigration Canyon may approve a request for a new private street that complies with the
following criteria:

a. The street must be part of a planned unit development (PUD) or planned community where
the municipality and the developer have entered into a development agreement;

b. Private streets will only be allowed for streets that have no public interest for traffic circulation
and connectivity;

c. The final design and cross section of any private street shall be determined by the
administrative land use authority based on recommendations from the Municipal Engineer.
Unless otherwise authorized by the administrative land use authority, private streets shall
conform to adopted street cross section standards and shall in no case less than twenty feet
(20’) in width.

d. The maximum length of a dead-end private street shall not exceed five hundred feet (500’);

e. Anote on the plat shall be included indicating that Emigration Canyon has no responsibility
to improve or maintain the private streets contained within, or private streets providing
access to the property described in the plat, nor does Emigration Canyon have responsibility
for any of the infrastructure associated with the roadway such as sidewalks, drainage facilities,
streetlights, curbs, and/or landscaping; and

f. The applicant shall provide a maintenance plan outlining how the private streets will be
maintained.

D. Double Fronting Lots.

1. Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shall be prohibited, except where they may be
essential to provide separation of single-family or duplex residential development from fronting
on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific disadvantage or hardship imposed by
topography or other factors. Such double frontage lots allowed within Emigration Canyon shall be
constructed to the adopted engineering design standards; and

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
2. Where lots have double frontage, are not screened, and/or are provided access directly onto an
arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each street side.

E. Angle of Lot Lines. Side lot lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles, or radial to the street
line, except where topographic or other conditions make it advisable to have side lot lines at sharper
angles.

F. Multiple Ownership of Lots. Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2) or more parcels
in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property ownership line divides one or
more lots, the subdivision shall be considered as a joint project and the final plat shall be signed by all
affected property owners.

18.12.060 - Remnant Parcels and Nuisance Strips.

A. No subdivision or platting of a lot shall create a nuisance strip, residual lot, or remnant parcel of
property less than the minimum lot area or width for the zone in which it is located.

B. Ifa remnant parcel is proposed, a phasing plan must be submitted demonstrating how the remnant
parcel can be developed in the future.

C. Remnant land not included in the proposed subdivision or platting of a lot must be deeded to adjacent
property, with the deed or other appropriate instrument being recorded at the same time as the
subdivision or recording of a plat. The resulting deeds shall not result in additional parcels being
created that are not within the subdivision boundary.

D. No lot may contain an elongated protuberance, or any other feature intended to deny frontage to
another parcel.

18.12.070 — Flag Lots.

A. Inorder to subdivide an existing lot or parcel so as to create two or more separate lots or parcels
(the base lot(s) adjacent to the street and a flag lot(s) to their rear), sufficient land area must be
available to maintain:

1. For the base lot(s), compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in which
the properties are situated, and
2. For flag lot(s) less than one half acre in size:

a. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are
situated if ownership of the land providing access to the flag lot(s) is retained by or conveyed
to the owner of those lots, or

b. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are
situated minus the land area included in the access easement across the base lot(s).

3. For flag lot(s) in zones that require a minimum lot area of one half acre in size or larger:

a. Compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in which the
properties are situated, exclusive of the land area encumbered for access purposes to the flag
lot(s), whether by ownership or perpetual easement.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

B. Access to a flag lot or lots shall be provided in the following manner:

1. Ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the person(s) or entities
that own the balance of the land area included in the flag lot(s), or

2. Retention of ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the owner of
the base lot(s) fronting on the street, but only if conveyance of that land area would render the
base lot(s) substandard with regards to lot width or lot area requirements applicable to the
zone in which the properties are situated. If so retained, access to the flag lot(s) shall be
provided through conveyance and recordation of a perpetual access easement for each lot,
together with cross maintenance and liability agreements addressing the rights and
responsibilities of the owners of the base lot(s) and the flag lot(s).

C. Access to a flag lot(s), whether by ownership of the land area across which such access is provided or
through recordation of a perpetual access easement across the base lot(s), must be of uniform width
from the flag lot to the intersection with the street right-of-way or easement upon which the base lot
fronts in accordance with the following:

1. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street
right-of-way or easement is fess than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that connection
must be no less than twenty (20’) feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the travel way
is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the fire authority.

2. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street
right-of-way or easement is more than one hundred and thirty feet, the width of that connection
must be no less than twenty-five (25’) feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the travel
way is authorized for access purposes by the Municipal Engineer and the fire authority.

3. A landscaping, irrigation, and fencing plan shall be submitted to create a buffer between the
driveway and adjoining properties to mitigate the negative impacts of the access.

Chapter 18.14 - Required Improvements

Sections:
18.14.010 - Certification of Improvements.
No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded without receiving a statement signed by Planning
and Development Services certifying that the improvements described in the applicant’s plans and
specifications have been completed, or that an adequate performance bond has been submitted for the
required improvements as allowed under Chapter 18.16. The certification document is to certify that the
required improvements meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of Emigration Canyon, that
they comply with the standards and requirements of the Salt Lake County Health Department, Planning
and Development Services, the Planning Commission and the fire authority serving the area.

18.14.020 - Storm Sewers.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and
catch basins and shall be connected to an adequate outfall. A stormwater drainage system subject to the
approval of Planning and Development Services shall be provided and shall be separate and independent
of the sanitary sewer system. The final plans for the drainage system shall be prepared by a licensed
engineer not in the employ of the county, the MSD or Emigration Canyon and shall meet the requirements
in Title 17.
18.14.030 - Public Sanitary Sewer (Reserved).
18.14.040 - Storm Drainage.
No irrigation ditch or canal shall be used for storm drainage conveyance or storage. No ditch, canal or
other waterway shall be permitted within property dedicated or to be dedicated for public use. The
applicant shall remove such waterways from property to be so dedicated prior to the construction of
required off-site improvements. The applicant shall receive written permission of the appropriate ditch or
canal company or of the water users for all changes to ditches, canals, or other waterways and this
permission shall be provided with the final plat application.

18.14.050 - Street Improvements.

A. The applicant shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and
proposed, within the subdivision to Planning and Development Services. Plans and profiles are to be
prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the state of Utah and shall be accompanied
by the final plat. The applicant must also provide all GIS data corresponding to the submitted plans as
required by Section 18.14.020. Planning and Development Services shall, within a reasonable time not
to exceed twenty (20) business days from the receipt of the plans and profiles, notify the applicant of
approval, and in case of disapproval the reasons therefor. Such plans and profiles shall include:

1. The designation of limits of work to be done;

2. The location of the benchmark and its true elevation according to County Policy 1013, “Standards
for Geographic Information System” and the “Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS
Standards,” all profiles to be referred to in those standards;

3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for the centerline of the street;

4. Profile of all public storm drain system and any private system that connects to public system;

5. Construction plans which include the details of street cross-sections, location and elevation of
manholes, catchbasins and storm sewers, elevations and location of fire hydrants, location of
existing and proposed public survey control monuments and street centerline monuments, and
any other detail necessary to simplify construction;

6. Complete data for field layout and office checking;

7. On-curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides those at points of
curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to insure drainage at intersection;

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
8. The street address of the project as approved by Planning and Development Services and
subdivision name if applicable.

B. Atleast ten (10) calendar days prior to the commencement of construction, the applicant shall furnish
to Planning and Development Services two bound 24”x36” hard copies of the complete set of
approved construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and proposed, as well as all
corresponding GIS data in a format compatible with this Chapter. The approved hard copy sets of the
construction plans and profiles shall include all information required in Subsection A.

18.14.060 - Arrangement of Streets.

The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing

streets in adjoining areas and shall provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas insofar as such

continuation or access shall be deemed necessary by the Planning Commission. New streets must connect
with existing public streets.

18.14.070 - Utility and Facility Systems to Be Underground.

All utility and facility systems including, but not limited to, all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables, conduits,

and pipes providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water, sewer,

steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution systems, and transmission systems shall be
placed underground in accordance with municipal ordinances and policies subject to the Utility and

Facility System Placement Regulations in Title 19.

18.14.080 - Street Lighting (Reserved).

18.14.090 - Pavement Requirements.

A. Allstreets within the municipality shall be improved with pavements to an overall width in accordance
with the standards, rules and regulations adopted by Emigration Canyon.

B. Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the standards, rules and
regulations adopted by Emigration Canyon.

18.14.100 - Curbs and Gutters.

A. The applicant shall be required to install curbs, gutters and sidewalks only on those roads identified in
an adopted transportation plan or as part of an executed development agreement where curb and
gutter are required. When required, the applicant shall install curbs, gutters and sidewalks on both
existing and proposed streets.

B. When required, curbs and gutters shall conform with Title 14 and Emigration Canyon’s adopted
standards and specifications.

C. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty-five feet, or thirty-five feet on streets
designated as collector or arterial streets. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for
elevation besides those at points of curvature.

18.14.110 - Street Name Signs.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

Street name signs, conforming to the design and specifications and in the number provided by the
standards, rules and regulations of Emigration Canyon shall be provided by the developer at all street
intersections. Installation shall be made by the municipality to ensure uniformity.
18.14.120 - Trails.
The applicant shall dedicate trails necessary to provide public access to public lands and other trails shown
on the general plan, any other adopted plan, or required by the Planning Commission. Trails shall be
located so that the route is feasible for both construction and long-term maintenance; sideslopes shall not
exceed seventy percent and rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions shall be avoided.
The specific location of the trail right-of-way shall be verified on the ground before approval of the
subdivision. The amount of land required for trail dedication without compensation shall not exceed five
percent of the land within the subdivision excluding trails located within a standard street right-of- way.
18.14.130 - Fire Hydrants.
Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions in accordance with the regulations of the Fire Authority.
18.14.140 - Stormwater Inlets and Catch Basins.
Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided by the applicant within the roadway improvements
at points required to capture and convey stormwater per current standards and engineering standards of
practice or as otherwise specified by the Municipal Engineer.
18.14.150 - Open Ditches and Canals—Permitted When.
A. Open ditches or canals shall not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except along rear or side

lot lines. The applicant shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch companies as to:

1. Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining the
subdivision;

2. The size of pipe and culverts required;

3. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and maintenance of such ditches, pipes
and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or proposed public roads,
specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by Planning and Development
Services.

B. Non-pressurized irrigation components, whether open or piped, require water master approval.

1. If existing irrigation components are suspected and not identified, then verification is required.

2. If irrigation components are present, it is required they be checked to comply with the ordinance.

3. The water master’s signature is required on any sheet in the final construction plans which show
irrigation components.

4. Final approval of the construction plans shall be withheld until water master’s signature is
confirmed.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

18.14.160 - Hazardous Features—Fencing Requirements.

The applicant shall install a six-foot, nonclimbable chain-link fence, or its equivalent, in conformance with

the standards and rules and regulations adopted as provided in Section 18.20.010, along all open ditches,

canals or waterways, non-access streets, open reservoirs or bodies of water, railroad rights-of-way and
other such features of potentially hazardous nature on, crossing or contiguous to the property being

subdivided, except along those features which the Planning Commission shall determine would not be a

hazard to life, or where the conforming structure would create a hazard to the safety of the public.

18.14.170 - Fencing Requirements - Reserved

18.14.180 - Construction of Improvements.

A. Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the Municipal Engineering
Division shall be notified so that proper inspection may be provided and so that it may be determined
whether or not proper authorization and/or required permits for construction have been obtained.

B. As-built plans, profile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the municipal
engineer of all street improvements, storm drain, sanitary sewer, and water systems upon
completion. Planning and Development Services shall retain the improvement bond until such plans
have been submitted.

C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the applicant, the contractor and all other associated
agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly placed improvements or facilities
within the roadway sections during development.

18.14.190 - Responsibility for Damages and Maintenance.

A. All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred during the period of development shall
be the sole responsibility of the applicant and must be replaced or repaired to the satisfaction of the
Municipal Engineer before final acceptance of any improvements, and bond release. Any damages
that occur during building construction, shall be the responsibility of the builder, and will be
satisfactorily repaired prior to the issuance of any certificates of occupancy. At the discretion of the
Municipal Engineer, additional bonding may be required.

B. All maintenance, including snow removal, for all bonded improvements or facilities within the public
right of way shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant while any portion of the performance
bond related to those improvements is still held by the municipality.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

Chapter 18.16 — Performance Guarantees
Sections:
18.16.010 - Performance Guarantee Required.
Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this Title, the performance guarantee
shall be submitted:
A. Inconformance with this Chapter; and
B. Prior to the commencement of any improvements covered by the performance guarantee.
18.16.020 - Performance Bonds.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS

A. Prior to the recording of a plat or conducting any development activity, in lieu of actual completion of
the improvements listed in this Title, applicants may file with Planning and Development Services a
performance bond to assure actual construction of such improvements within a one-year period and
prior to the recording of the final plat.

B. If the applicant elects to post a performance bond in lieu of completing the improvements prior to
the recording of the final plat, the applicant shall provide a performance bond for:

1. The completion of one hundred percent (100%) of the required improvements; or

2. If the Municipal Engineer has inspected and accepted a portion of the required improvements,
one hundred percent (100%) of the incomplete or unaccepted improvements.

C. The amount of the performance bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road
construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall be established by the Municipal
Engineer’s estimated cost of completion.

D. The performance bond shall also secure any required improvements on individual lots within the
subdivision which are required in this Chapter.

E. The performance bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an irrevocable
letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.

F. Aperformance bond agreement shall be entered into by Planning and Development Services and the
applicant with the following stipulations:

1. The performance bond agreement shall include a provision that the performance bond shall
expire within thirteen (13) months from the date issued if the bonded improvements are not
complete.

2. If the project has not been completed by that date, then the performance bond shall be
considered foreclosed upon.

3. If the project has not been completed by that date, all remaining funds shall be thereafter
remitted to Planning and Development Services as set forth in the performance bond agreement.

4. The 13 month period described in subsection (F)(1) may be extended only if special circumstances
warrant extension, as determined by the Director or Designee after consultation with the
Municipal Engineering Division.

G. A performance bond may be partially released if the performance to which it relates has been
satisfactorily completed, except that not less than ten percent (10%) of the performance bond shall
be retained to ensure completion of the entire performance, which shall be in addition to the ten
percent (10%) that must be retained as a warranty for all bonded improvements that have been
installed.

H. The Director or Designee may establish objective procedures consistent with this section relating to
the administration of performance bonds, including fund management, default and collection.

18.16.030 - Final Disposition and Release.

TITLE 18 - SUBDIVISIONS
A. Upon completion of the work for which a performance bond has been posted, the developer shall
submit to the Director or Designee, one copy of a written request for release.
B. After receipt of the notice and request under Subsection A of this Section, within five (5) calendar days
the Municipal Engineer shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and shall submit a
report to the Director or Designee setting forth the condition of the facilities.
C. The Director or Designee shall receive the report and, within seven (7) calendar days of the inspection,
authorize release of a portion of the performance bond corresponding to the work completed and
approved if the Municipal Engineer finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition
of the improvements are satisfactory.
D. The portion of the bond to be held as a durability bond under Section 18.16.050 of this Chapter may
not be released until the durability period has expired and an inspection has been conducted by the
Municipal Engineer that finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition of the
improvements is satisfactory.
E. Abond may not be released if, after consulting with the Municipal Engineering Division, the Director:
1. Finds that the condition of material or workmanship shows unusual depreciation or does not
comply with the acceptable standards of durability; or

2. Finds that any other terms of the bond agreement have not been satisfied; or

3. As built plans, including profile drawings, have not been filed and corresponding GIS data (as
required) has not been submitted.

F. If the bonds are not released, the reasons shall be given to the applicant in writing within seven (7)
calendar days from the time of the inspection.

G. Inthe case of a dispute over the release of a performance bond under this section, the Director may
refer the matter to the Council for subsequent action to secure performance.

H. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter
3.56 of this code.

18.16.040 - Default.

A. Upon substantiating a finding under subsection B of this section, the Director with approval of the
municipal council may, with due notice to the developer:

1. Declare the performance bond forfeited; and
2. Install or cause the required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from the
performance bond to defray the costs.

B. A performance bond may be forfeited under subsection A of this section if the Director finds that a
developer has failed or neglected to:

1. Satisfactorily install the required improvements;
2. Make required corrections;
