ORDINANCE 2025-0-09
Ordinance No. 2025-0-09 Date: August 26, 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL
AMENDING THE ZONING MAP TO CHANGE THE ZONING OF THE 0.88
ACRES OF THE PROPERTY AT APPROXIMATELY 4180 EMIGRATION
CANYON ROAD FROM R-M (RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY) TO FR-20
(FORESTRY RECREATION)
RECITALS
WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon City is a municipality and has authority to
regulate Zoning in general pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-3c-103 (2); and
WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon City has authority to adopt zoning ordinances,
including a zoning map pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the
Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, (“MLUDMA”), Title 10,
Section 9a, Utah Code, to establish zones within the city; and
WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon Planning Commission have discussed the need
for Multi-Family zoning in Emigration Canyon and have reached a consensus that this type
of zoning is not appropriate for the canyon; and
WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission proposes the
elimination of the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zoning district; and
WHEREAS, in order to eliminate the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zoning
district, that zone must not be applied to any property within the jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, the only parcel zoned Residential Multi-Family (R-M) is 0.88 acres,
is owned by Salt Lake City, and is currently used for commercial parking; and
WHEREAS, Salt Lake City has not indicated any interest in using the subject parcel
for any use other than those that exist.; and
WHEREAS, the amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan; and
WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on June 17, 2024, to consider a zoning map amendment for the 0.88 acres of land located
at approximately 4180 Emigration Canyon Road; and
WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission has recommended that
the Council amend the zoning map for the 0.88 acres of land located at approximately 4180

Emigration Canyon Road from R-M (Residential Multi-Family) to FR-20 (Forestry
Recreation) for the protection and preservation of the public health, safety and general
welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1. The Zoning Map of Emigration Canyon City is hereby amended as follows:
The 0.88 acres located at approximately 4180 Emigration Canyon Road that is zoned R-M
(Residential Multi-Family) is hereby reclassified to the FR-20 (Forestry Recreation) Zone.
The rezoned property is the portion of Parcel #: 16-01-200-005 highlighted in Exhibit A:
2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific
application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in
full force and effect.
3. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and
publication as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 26" day of August 2025.
y/) i 2 —— CITY COUNCIL
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST
» a Baun, 2.
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting
Council Member Hawkes voting
Council Member Brems __ voting
Council Member Harris _ voting
Council Member Pinon __ voting

(Complete as Applicable)

Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code

§10-3-711: FAUS2A, LOL _,

Effective date of ordinance: HUGUST7S. 707

|

SUMMARY OF
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-09
On August 26, 2025, the Emigration Canyon City Council Enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
0-09, amending its zoning map on property located at approximately 4180 Emigration
Canyon Road from R-M (Residential Multi-Family) to FR-20 (Forestry Recreational)
Zone, |
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST
ay Baun, ala
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting
Council Member Hawkes voting
Council Member Brems __ voting
Council Member Harris _ voting
Council Member Pinon __ voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-09 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.

ome
Exhibit A
3 : ,
Th, ?
p ) ie .
wi oe gration Canyon Ro) : Se = "
, o > i Ss
7
f
,
AO
4 Mary:
ee 7
y : ‘
wa oN
55 =? S
A x
, bac % é
om
ENO
me emia |
a Se
‘
: “a
¢
.

Meeting Body: Emigration fw Municipal Services
Canyon Council <a CW District
Meeting Date: August 26, 2025
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning SUMMARY
Manager ; . . . ;
The MSD Planning Staff are working with the Emigration Canyon
File Number: REZ2024-001197 Planning Commission to repeal and replace Emigration Canyon’s
Project Type: Zoning Ordinance. Only one small portion of one parcel is zoned
LK Re-Zone / Map Revision Residential Multi-Family (R-M). This small portion does not have
any residential use and is used for a parking lot, garbage and
Areas Affected: This re-zone _— . . . . ;
. sewage facilities for adjacent commercial uses. Residential Multi-
would apply to the portion of Family (R-M . ‘cioned to b north d
parcel #16-01-200-005 currently amily ( -M) uses are no emuisione O ety of the propase
zoned R-M. ordinance. The R-M can only be eliminated if no parcels within the
jurisdiction have that zone applied to them. Rezoning the
Key Findings: : .
property to Forestry Recreation (FR-20), the zone applied to the
e Staff propose the majority of the parcel would facilitate the elimination of the R-M
elimination of the zone from the proposed Emigration Canyon Zoning Ordinance.
Residential Multi-Family
(R-M) zoning district. ATTACHMENTS
* Inorder to eliminate the The following attachments are included as supplementary
Residential Multi-Family materials to the end of this staff report:
(R°M) zoning district, that 1. Emigration Canyon Code, Ch. 19.88 Nonconforming Uses
zone must not be applied dN ving Struct
to any property within the and Noncomplying Structures.
jurisdiction. BACKGROUND
Staff Recommendation: Staff ©The MSD Planning Staff are working with the Emigration Canyon
recommends that ve Council re- Planning Commission to repeal and replace Emigration Canyon’s
— ue ; subject pence, Zoning Ordinance. When it was incorporated, Emigration Canyon
consistent with the analysis : . ,
resented herein adopted a very slightly altered version of Salt Lake County's
P Zoning Ordinance. Emigration Canyon. As part of this effort to
Planning Commission repeal the existing ordinance and replace it with an ordinance
Recommendation: The Planning built for Emigration Canyon, the City is evaluating which zones to
Commission Recommended that . . : .
; keep, which zones to eliminate, and which zones to create in order
the Council rezone the subject to bett th it dits | '
parcel from R-M to FR-20. o better serve the community and its long term vision.
Parcel #16-01-200-005, owned by Salt Lake City and located at
approximately 4180 W Emigration Canyon Road, has two zones
applied to it. The majority of the parcel, the 25.13 acres occupied
by Camp Kostopulos, is zoned Forestry Recreation (FR-20). A small
portion of the property (0.88 acres), part of the parking lot
adjacent to Emigration Brewery, is zoned Residential Multi-Family
[Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 1 of 4

(R-M). This small portion of the subject parcel is the only property in Emigration Canyon zoned R-
M.
' Be ee . 3 ie pai po ei cap ’ es fp Wz Property Location and Ownership: a .
7 eet. aes cy . : yt 2 ee =) 7. “a i, . ie 83 R Drv
I fia toee Ms, oe 4 = hae ae m X ; ee fe: 1? Property Location: 4180 EMIGRATION CANYON AD
: YE y 4 ¥ ; Se. = —— a ae! Eee Sir ke cit coeonerion
by ee
ah ie Fo Mt ¢. Lae FS 5 ; *%,
os . Sie a A 2 . : Hy yin ~ eee F
Me phn: uf j ’ - . » r, A “ph ps Ei
BS 5 hes. es. Bi Ete wat tas tps se ee Ate HY
ne! at ’ ‘ oR age Eth r Ri, aint
st ; el 5) a : ZO Oe
PROPOSED MAP AMENDMENT
The Planning Staff and Planning Commission have discussed eliminating the R-M zone from the
proposed zoning ordinance, which is only possible if the R-M Zone is not applied to any property
in the City. The R-M zone was applied to this property only to accommodate the parking, trash
and sewage needs for the adjacent commercial establishments. These uses are established and
would become legal, nonconforming uses. In Emigration Canyon, a legal, nonconforming use can
be maintained, and a noncomplying structure can be enlarged and even moved under certain
circumstances.
These nonconforming parking, garbage and sewage facilities are not intended to stay
nonconforming in the long term. As part of the repeal and replace effort, the Staff and Planning
Commission have been reviewing a proposed Parks and Recreation zone and Public Facilities and
Institution zones. In the long term Staff would propose that the entire Camp K parcel be rezoned
to either the Parks and Recreation or Public Facilities and Institution zones. As those don't exist in
the current ordinance, this proposed FR-20 rezone is an interim step to eliminate the R-M zone.
Any future zone change would be subject to the legislative process and the public hearings and
meetings associate with that process.
[Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 2 of 4

STAFF ANALYSIS

General Plan Guidance:
The Emigration Canyon General Plan, adopted in 2022, is supportive of this rezone. The subject
parcel is part of the Main Canyon Corridor Character Area. The vision for this area includes
preserving the commercial area adjacent to the subject parcel and Camp Kostopulos. The
implementation strategies include preserving the unique canyon ecosystem and scenery and
supporting land use and development patterns that incorporate nature scale and use into the
built environment and increase public awareness and responsibility toward the natural
environment.
The current Residential Multi-Family (R-M) is not an appropriate zone for this area given the
vision and strategies in the General Plan. Multi-Family residential development is not part of the
heritage or existing development pattern in the canyon. The proposed Forestry Recreation (FR-
20) zone is a much more appropriate zone for this area.
Potential Zone Analysis:
The proposed rezone will not affect the operations and future vision of Camp Kostopulos. The
rezone will not hamper Salt Lake City’s use of the property as the owner of a parcel that has been
used for decades as an active recreational use of an open space area. The commercial uses will
not be hampered because the existing parking, garbage, and sewage uses will be allowed to
continue as they are and have been.
Notice:
Notice has been given in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-205. Notice was mailed to each
affected entity, each property owner within the potential rezone area and each property owner
within 300’ at least 10 calendar days before the public hearing. Notice was posted on the Utah
Public Notice Website.
Review Procedure and Criteria:
The Emigration Canyon Council is the land use authority for zoning map amendments. The Council
cannot amend the zoning map without first submitting the amendment to the Emigration Canyon
Planning Commission for the Planning Commission's recommendation. The Planning Commission
must hold a public hearing and review and recommend an action to the Council. The Council must
then hold a public meeting after which they may adopt, adopt with revisions, or reject the zoning
map amendment recommended by the Planning Commission.
A rezone can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote the public
welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public welfare, or is
the best alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit from the
decision. Similarly, a rezone can be denied if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could
detrimentally impact the public welfare.

[Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 3 of 4

This rezone is being initiated by the Staff, not by the landowner. Salt Lake City and Camp
Kostopulos have both been notified of the proposed rezone. The MSD Staff held a meeting with
Salt Lake City Public Works and Camp K to discuss the proposed rezone. Both entities will have
the opportunity to present at the public hearing if they choose. Where the property owners did
not request the rezone, they may file a written protest no later than 10 days after the day of the
first public hearing. The written protest does not preclude the Council from rezoning the property.
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION
On June 17, 2024, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission, after having held a public
hearing, recommended that the Council amend the zoning map for the 0.88 acres of land located
at approximately 4180 Emigration Canyon Road from R-M (Residential Multi-Family) to FR-20
(Forestry Recreation).
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Based on the above review and analysis, staff finds that:

1. MSD Planning Staff and Planning Commission have discussed the need for Multi-Family
zoning in Emigration Canyon and have reached a consensus that this type of zoning is not
appropriate for the canyon.

2. MSD Planning Staff and Planning Commission propose the elimination of the Residential
Multi-Family (R-M) zoning district.

3. Inorder to eliminate the Residential Multi-Family (R-M) zoning district, that zone must not
be applied to any property within the jurisdiction.

4. The one parcel zoned Residential Multi-Family (R-M) is owned by a Salt Lake City.

5. The City has not indicated any interest in using the subject parcel for any use other than
those that exist.

6. The Forestry Recreation (FR-20) zone is supported by the General Plan for this area.
Therefore MSD Planning Staff recommend that the subject parcel be rezoned to Forestry
Recreation (FR-20).

POTENTIAL COUNCIL ACTIONS
The Emigration Canyon Council could take any of the following actions, among others:
Option 1. Approval the rezone to Forestry Recreation (FR-20).
Option 2. Deny the rezone request, leaving the property in the Residential Multi-Family (R-M)
zone.
Option 3. Table the matter, requesting more information from the Planning Staff.
[Emigration Canyon Camp K Rezone / REZ2024-001197 / August 26, 2025] | Page 4 of 4

SUMMARY OF
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
ORDINANCE NO. _2025-0-09
On August 26, 2025, the Emigration Canyon City Council Enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
0-09, amending its zoning map on property located at approximately 4180 Emigration
Canyon Road from R-M (Residential Multi-Family) to FR-20 (Forestry Recreational)
Zone.
‘ Joe SmOlka, Mayor
ATTEST
ay Baun, 2.
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting
Council Member Hawkes _ voting
Council Member Brems __ voting
Council Member Harris —_ voting
Council Member Pinon __ voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-09 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
