ORDINANCE 2025-0-07
Ordinance No. 2025-O-07 Date: August 26", 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL REPEALING
AND REPLACING CHAPTER 19.88 NONCONFORMING USES AND NON-
COMPLYING STRUCTURES
RECITALS

WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a municipality and has authority to adopt land
use regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and

WHEREAS, when Emigration Canyon became a Metro Township in 2017, the then
Township adopted Salt Lake County’s Zoning Ordinance, including Chapter 19.88 Non-
conforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures that the County had adopted in 2008; and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its land use ordinances to
update Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures; and

WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Planning Commission held a public hearing
on July 10", 2025, to consider a land use updating Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and
Noncomplying Structures; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council repeal
the existing Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures and replace
it with the Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures attached to
this ordinance as Attachment A for the protection and preservation of the public health,
safety and general welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL as follows:

1. Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures is repealed and
replaced with the language in Attachment A to this Ordinance.

2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which
shall continue in full force and effect.

3. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b) to

finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
4. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
to Utah Code § 10-3-712.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 26" day of August 2025.
VE _j CITY COUNCIL
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST
a, Baun, ao
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting
Council Member Hawkes voting
Council Member Brems __ voting
Council Member Harris _ voting
Council Member Pinon __ voting
| (Complete as Applicable)
| Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
— §10-3-711:
Effective date of ordinance:

SUMMARY OF
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-07
On August 26", 2025, the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-0-17,
repealing and replacing Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Struc-
tures.
4 Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting OMS
Council Member Hawkes _ voting DIAL
Council Member Brems __ voting
Council Member Harris _ voting
Council Member Pinon __ voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-07 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.

AttachmentA
Chapter 19.88
Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures

19.88.010 - Purpose
This Chapter regulates the continued existence of nonconforming uses or noncomplying
structures as defined in Section 19.04. While nonconforming uses and noncomplying
structures may continue, this Chapter is intended to limit enlargement, alteration, resto-
ration, or replacement which would increase the discrepancy between existing conditions
and the developments prescribed by this Title. In addition, applications are reviewed to
ensure that they are reducing the degree of nonconformity and improving the physical
appearance of the structure and site through such measures as site and building design,
or the improved functions of the Use in relation to other uses.

19.88.020 - Determination of a Noncomplying Structure of a Nonconforming Use

The Director or designee shall determine the nonconforming or noncomplying status of

properties. As described in Utah Code 10-9a-511, the property owner shall have the bur-

den of establishing the legal existence of a noncomplying structure or nonconforming use
through substantial evidence.

A. The Director or designee shall determine a legal nonconforming use upon finding that:
1. The use legally existed before its current land use designation;

2. The use has been maintained and not discontinued for one year or more since the
time the land use ordinance governing the land changed; and

3. Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, the use does
not conform to the regulations that govern the use of the land.

B. The Director or designee shall determine a legal noncomplying structure upon finding
that:

1. The structure legally existed before the structure’s current land use designation;
and

2. Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, the structure
does not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.

C. Determinations. Upon review of an application, a written determination shall be issued
by the Director or designee of the non-conforming or non-complying status on a prop-
erty.

D. Appeals. Pursuant to Section 19.12.040 of this title, any person adversely affected by
a final decision of the Director or designee may appeal that decision to the land use
hearing officer.

19.88.030 - Continuation of Use

A. Continuation of a Nonconforming Use. Subject to the limitations in this section, the
nonconforming use of land may continue, provided that no such nonconforming use
of land can in any way expand or extend either on the same or adjoining property.

B. Continuation of a Noncomplying Structure. A Non-Complying Structure that was law-
fully constructed may be used and maintained, subject to the standards and limitations
of this Chapter.

19.88.040 - Abandonment or Loss of a Nonconforming Use

A. Abandonment of a Nonconforming Use. A nonconforming use that is discontinued for
a minimum period of one (1) year is presumed abandoned and shall not thereafter be
reestablished or resumed. Abandonment may also be presumed to have occurred if
a majority of the primary structure associated with the nonconforming use has been
voluntarily demolished without prior written approval of the Emigration Canyon City
regarding the extension of the nonconforming use; or the primary structure associated
with the nonconforming use remains vacant for a period of one (1) year.

1. Any party claiming that a nonconforming use has been abandoned shall have the
burden of establishing the abandonment.

2. After a nonconforming use has been abandoned, any subsequent use of the build-
ing, structure, or land must conform to the regulations for the zone in which it is
located.

3. “Majority” is defined as more than fifty percent (50%) of the square footage of the
primary structure.

B. Rebuttable Presumption of Abandonment. After abandonment has been presumed by
the Director or designee, the property owner may rebut the presumption of abandon-
ment by submitting sufficient evidence that abandonment has not in fact occurred.

19.88.050 - Nonconforming Use

A. Expansion of Use Permitted. A nonconforming use may be extended through the
same building, provided no structural alteration of the building is proposed or made
for the purpose of the extension.

B. Change of Use.

1. Anonconforming use may be changed to any use allowed in the most restrictive
zone where such nonconforming use is allowed, provided the Planning Commis-
sion finds that such use would not be more intensive than the most recent existing
legal nonconforming use.

2. Any change of a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use is a conditional
use and subject to the conditional use approval standards, except that the pro-
posed nonconforming use need not conform to the adopted General Plan.

3. As part of the change of use, structures cannot be enlarged, removed, recon-
structed or otherwise altered except for interior remodeling and exterior restoration
or renewal that will make the appearance of the structure more nearly conform to
the character of the area in which it is located.

4. As part of the change of use, the existing lot cannot be enlarged or modified except
to create landscape, fencing, curb, gutter and sidewalk, road widening or minimum
off-street parking to provide a safer and more compatible facility.

19.88.060 - Noncomplying Structure or Structure Occupied by a Nonconforming

Use

A. Maintenance, Exterior or Interior Remodeling, or Repairs Permitted. The Owner may
complete normal maintenance and incidental repair on a complying Structure that con-
tains a Non-Conforming Use or on a Non-Complying Structure. This Section shall not
be construed to authorize any violations of law nor to prevent the strengthening or
restoration to a safe condition of a Structure in accordance with an order of the Build-
ing Official who declares a Structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe
condition.

B. Addition, Enlargement, Expansion. A non-complying structure shall not be added to,
enlarged, or expanded in whole or in part unless the proposed change complies with
all current land use regulations. In other words, all new square footage of building
must fully comply with the setback, size, and height regulations set forth in this title
(see Figure 1).

C. Moving or Reconstruction at a New Location. A non-complying structure shall not be
moved in whole or in part, for any distance whatsoever, to any other location on the
same, or any other lot unless:

1. The proposed change will lessen the degree of the existing noncompliance and
not create any new noncompliance of all or any part of the structure; or

2. The proposed change complies with all governing land use regulations at the time
of the change.

3. For the purposes of this Chapter, “lessen the degree of existing noncompliance”
means:

a. To decrease the gross total square footage of structure not in compliance (see
Figure 1); and,

b. To increase the distance from the ordinary high-water mark, wetlands, and/or
property line when the nonconformity pertains to a setback distance.

D. Remodels Requiring Reconstruction. A noncomplying structure that has deteriorated
to a state where a full demolition or construction or reconstruction of a foundation is
necessary for interior or exterior remodels may be reconstructed in the same location

subject to current land use regulations. The existing noncompliance may continue if

the degree of noncompliance is not increased or a new violation in land use regula-

tions is not created.

1. Anoncomplying structure that has deteriorated to a condition that the structure is
rendered uninhabitable may not be reconstructed, restored, or substituted, once
written notice from the Emigration Canyon City is served to the property owner that
the structure is uninhabitable and that the nonconforming use or noncomplying
structure will be lost if the property owner does not apply with a complete land use
application within one (1) year from the day in which the written notice is served.

E. Damage or Destruction. A noncomplying structure or structure occupied by a noncon-
forming use that is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other
calamity or act of God or the public enemy, and the damage is not the result of the
intentional or reckless disregard of the owners or occupants, may be restored, and the
occupancy or use of such structure or part thereof that existed at the time of such
damage or destruction may be continued or resumed, provided that such restoration
is started within a period of one (1) year following damage or destruction, and the
restoration is diligently prosecuted to completion.

19.88.060 Figure 1 Adding to a non-complying structure
a ZZ Stream sethack
<< [ Existing, legally non
Ls cemplying structure
Nat allowed; proposed
addition
Allowed: proposed
————— = adelitian
JS
hen

SUMMARY OF
EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O0-07
On August 26", 2025, the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-0-17,
repealing and replacing Chapter 19.88 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Struc-
tures.
Y Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST
\ Baun, ale.
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting OQ
Council Member Hawkes voting (J Wp
Council Member Brems __ voting
Council Member Harris _ voting
Council Member Pinon __ voting DOYS
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-07 is available in the office of the Emigration
Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
