EMIGRATION CANYON CITY COUNCIL
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-18 DATE: December 15, 2025
AN ORDINANCE TO INITIATE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CITY OF
EMIGRATION CANYON DATA PRIVACY PROGRAM; DESIGNATE CHIEF
ADMINISTRATIVE AND AUTHORIZED RECORDS OFFICERS; REQUIRE
RECORDS FOR PROOF OF OFFICER AND EMPLOYEE PRIVACY TRAINING;
PREPARE WEBSITE DATA PRIVACY NOTICE; ENDORSE THE STATE OF UTAH’S
DATA PRIVACY POLICY; AND COMPLETE EMIGRATION CANYON’S INTERNAL
DATA PRIVACY PROGRAM REPORT

WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon City Council (“Council”) adopts programs to guide
decision-making and policy; and

WHEREAS, the State of Utah requires each governmental entity, including the City of
Emigration Canyon (“Emigration Canyon”), to initiate a data privacy program (“DPP”) that
recognizes the state policy that “an individual has a fundamental interest in and inherent
expectation of privacy regarding the individual’s personal data that an individual provides to a
governmental entity” and each governmental entity shall process personal data consistent with this
state policy pursuant to Utah Code § 63A-19-401; and

WHEREAS, the Utah State Legislature enacted HB 444, Data Privacy Amendments, in
2025, which requires Emigration Canyon to prepare an internal DPP report (“Report”) no later
than December 31, 2025, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 63A-19-401.3; and

WHEREAS, the Council resolves to fully comply with the requirements of Utah Code,
Title 63A, Chapter 19, Government Data Privacy Act (“GDPA”); Utah Code, Title 63G, Chapter
2, Government Records Access and Management Act (“GRAMA”); and Utah Government
Operations Code, Title 63A; including the completion of the Report; and

WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon is a member of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District
(“MSD”) that collects the majority of data from the residents of the MSD member cities and towns
for Planning & Development services. Emigration Canyon supports MSD’s own Data Privacy
Program as approved by the MSD Board of Trustees; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to initiate and establish an official Emigration Canyon
DPP to be developed and implemented over time to comply with the requirements of Utah Code,
Title 63A, Chapter 19, Part 4, Duties of Governmental Entities, and other applicable laws; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to appoint a Chief Administrative Officer (“CAO”) and
an administrative records officer (‘ARO”) for the City’s DPP.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Emigration Canyon City Council that:

1. Approval of Forms: The Council approves the following forms:

a. The internal privacy report form template included as Exhibit A of this
Ordinance; and

b. The website data privacy statement attached as Exhibit B of this Ordinance.

2. Appointment of CAO: The Council designates Marla Howard, General Manager
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District as the CAO of the Emigration Canyon DPP and
directs the CAO to:

a. Obtain all required training(s); and

b. Oversee the compliance of all Emigration Canyon staff and applicable
agents with the data privacy training pursuant to Utah Code § 63A-19-401.2; and

c. Report the names of the designated CAO and ARO to the Division of
Archives and Records Services pursuant to Utah Code Subsections 63A-12-
103(8)(c)(ii) and 63G-2-108; and

d. Prepare the Report to the best of the CAO’s ability using the template
attached as Exhibit A in accordance with applicable law and to file the completed
report in Emigration Canyon’s records, provided that such report will be a protected
record; and

e. Prepare the website data privacy statement in a manner that is substantially
similar to the notice template attached as Exhibit B and publish the completed
statement to the City of Emigration Canyon’s official website and the Utah Public
Notice Website.

3. Appointment of ARO: The Council designates Diana Baun, City Recorder as the
ARO of the Emigration Canyon DPP to fulfill all duties under applicable law and Emigration
Canyon ordinances and directs the ARO to take all required training(s).

4. Endorsement: The Council endorses the State of Utah’s data privacy policy.

5. Enactment of DPP: The Council approves:

a. The initiation and establishment of the Emigration Canyon DPP, with
direction to the Mayor and staff to and present to the Council for approval at a later
date such other ordinances, rules, or policies needed to implement the DPP and to
comply with applicable law; and

2

b. The designation of the CAO and appointment of the ARO, the intended
recordkeeping for proof of completion of ARO training and certification and
employee privacy training; and

c. The preparation and publication of the website data privacy notice; and

d. The completion of the Report.

6. Additional Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and
directed to take such other steps as may be needed:

a. For this Ordinance to become effective under Utah law; and

b. To make any non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting,
and numbering errors that may be needed, if any, to this Ordinance.

7. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific
application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
force and effect.

8. Effective Date: This Ordinance will go into effect immediately.

[execution on following page]
3

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Emigration Canyon
City Council on this 15" day of December 2025.
CITY OF EMIGRATION CANYON
By: Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST:
Diana Baun, City Recorder
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting _QUAQ
Council Member Brems voting
Council Member Harris voting \
Council Member Hawkes voting _QUA2
Council Member Pinon voting OY
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary.was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-
Effective date of ordinance: Af d ‘
4

SUMMARY OF
CITY OF EMIGRATION CANYON
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-18

On December 15, 2025, the Emigration Canyon City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-
O-18 to: (1) establish a data privacy program per H.B. 444; (2) designate chief administrative and
authorized records officers; (3) require records for proof of officer and employee privacy training;
(4) prepare a website data privacy notice; (5) endorse the State of Utah’s data privacy policy; and
(6) complete an initial data privacy program report.
CITY =MIGRATION CANYON

LL Abily’
By/Joe Smolka, Mayor
ATTEST:
Diana Baun, City Recorder
Voting:
Mayor Smolka voting
Council Member Brems voting ate
Council Member Harris voting ABSEOT
Council Member Hawkes voting _Que
Council Member Pinon voting DAR
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-18 is available in the office of the Emigration Canyon
City Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.
|

EXHIBIT A
CITY OF EMIGRATION CANYON TEMPLATE DATA PRIVACY PROGRAM
REPORT
2

EXHIBIT B
CITY OF EMIGRATION CANYON WEBSITE PRIVACY NOTICE
3

Section 1: Governmental Entity Information
Governmental Entity Name: Emigration Canyon
Governmental Entity Type (Select One):
L)State Agency LlInterlocal
[1County CAssociations of Government
CL) Municipality CCharter School
(Special Service District L]Public School
[Board or Commission (Independent or Quasi-Government
L1College or University LJOther
Mailing Address:
oe
Chief Administrative Officer (CAO):
e@ Name:
e Title:
@ Email:
e Phone:
e Date of Report Completion:
Section 2: Privacy Program Status
Utah Code Ann. Subsection 63A-19-401.3(1)(a):
e Has your governmental entity initiated a privacy program?
L] Yes LINo
e@ What mechanism(s) has your governmental entity used to initiate its privacy program?

L)Administrative Rule

[Ordinance

L]Resolution

L]Policy

[Privacy Program Report

Other:

Section 3: Privacy Practices, Maturity and Strategies

Utah Code Ann. Subsections 63A-19-401.3(1)(b)(i) and (ii):

Privacy Practice Maturity Model:
The practice is not implemented or acknowledged.
The practice may occur but is undocumented (no policies or procedures),
application is reactive and not standardized.
The practice is implemented and documented, but documentation may
not cover all relevant aspects, and application may be informal and
inconsistent.
The practice is documented to cover all relevant aspects, application is
formal and consistent.
The practice is actively managed with metrics that are regularly reviewed
to assess efficacy and facilitate improvement.
The practice is fully embedded in the entity with recognition and
understanding across the workforce through active training and
awareness campaigns, and inclusion in operations and strategy.

Privacy Practices Implemented:
List all privacy practices implemented, and the strategies your entity will implement, in the
coming calendar year to improve its privacy practices and program. The Office recommends
entities indicate the current maturity level (0-5) of each practice and select the target maturity
they plan to achieve for a given practice by the end of the following calendar year. This will be
beneficial to the entity in moving their privacy programs forward.
Implemented | Current Strategies for Target
Maturity Improvement Maturity
Gov-1. Chief LlYes Level 0 Example Strategy: Level 0
Administrative Officer Adopt policy or
(CAO) Designation LINo ordinance formally
adopting this practice
and defines who will
make CAO
designation and how
that designation will
be made.
Gov-2. Records Officers | L1Yes Level 0 Example Strategy: Level 0
Appointment Adopt policy or
LINo ordinance formally
adopting this practice
and defines how the
CAO will appoint
records officers and
review appointments.
Gov-3. Records Officer CL]Yes Level 0 Example Strategy: Level 0
Training and Certification Adopt policy or
LINo ordinance formally
adopting this practice
and require records

officers complete
certification.

Gov-4. Statewide Privacy | L] Yes Level 0 Level 0
Awareness Training

LINo
Gov-5. Privacy Program | L1] Yes Level 0 Level 0
Report

LINo
Practice Implemented | Current Strategies for Target

Maturity Improvement Maturity

Ide-1. Record Series C1Yes Level 0 Level 0
Creation and Maintenance

LINo
Ide-2. Record Series L]Yes Level 0 Level 0
Designation and
Classification LINo
Ide-3. Retention Schedule | (1 Yes Level 0 Level 0
Proposal and Approval

LINo
Ide-4. Record Series [1Yes Level 0 Level 0
Privacy Annotation

LINo

Ide-5. Inventorying L1Yes Level 0 Example strategy: Level 0
Adopt policy or
LINo ordinance that
formally adopts this
practice.
Ide-6. Privacy Impact L]Yes Level 0 Level 0
Assessment
LINo
Ide-7. Record and Data CJ Yes Level 0 Example Strategy: Level 0
Sharing, Selling, or Adopt policy or
Purchasing LINo ordinance requiring
any sharing, selling
or purchasing of data
be reported and
inventoried.
;'
Implemented | Current Strategies for Target
Maturity improvement Maturity
Con-1. Data Subject LlYes Level 0 Level 0
Requests for Access
LINo
Con-2. Data Subject L1Yes Level 0 Level 0
Requests for Amendment
or Correction LINo
Con-3. Data Subject ClYes Level 0 Level 0
Requests for an
Explanation LINo

Con-4. Data Subject LlYes Level 0 Level 0
Request At-Risk Employee
Restrictions LINo
Practice Implemented | Current Strategies for Target
Maturity Improvement Maturity
Com-1. Website Privacy C1 Yes Level 0 Level 0
Notice (Policy)
LINo
Com-2. Privacy Notice L1Yes Level 0 Level 0
(Notice to Provider of
Information) LINo
ees ave 2 ah eh aentel | = 91) )\or Bae Soe See se, Se
Practice Implemented | Current Strategies for Target
Maturity Improvement Maturity
Pro-1. Minimum Data LlYes Level 0 Level 0
Necessary
LINo
Pro-2. Record Retention | L1 Yes Level 0 Level 0
and Disposition
LINo

Pro-4. Breach (1) Yes Level 0 Level 0
Notification
LINo
Other Privacy Practices Implemented by the Governmental Entity wa)
Implemented | Current Strategies for Target
Maturity Improvement Maturity
L1Yes Level 0 Level 0
LINo
C11 Yes Level 0 Level 0
LINo
Section 4: High-Risk Processing Activities
Fulfills requirement of Subsection 63A-19-401.3(1)(b)(iii): The chief administrative officer of
each governmental entity shall prepare a report that includes a description of: the governmental
entity's high-risk processing activities.
Definition — Utah Code § 63A-19-101(17)(a) and (b):

(a) “High-risk processing activities” means a governmental entity’s processing of personal
data that may have a significant impact on an individual's privacy interests, based on
factors that include:

(i) the sensitivity of the personal data processed;
(ii) the amount of personal data being processed;

(iii) the individual’s ability to consent to the processing of personal data; and
(iv) risks of unauthorized access or use.
(b) High-risk processing activities may include the use of:
(i) facial recognition technology
(ii) automated decision making
(iii) profiling
(iv) genetic data
(v) biometric data
(vi) geolocation data.
4.1 High-Risk Activities:
Select all applicable high-risk processing activities your entity engages in and provide a brief
description of the purposes and uses of each activity.
CFacial recognition technology
Explanation of Purpose:
a
C)Automated decision making
Explanation of Purpose:
———_————— EEE
OProfiling (e.g., behavioral or predictive analysis)
Explanation of Purpose:
CiGenetic data processing
Explanation of Purpose:
se RARE
OCBiometric data processing (e.g., fingerprints, voice, iris scans)
Explanation of Purpose:

C)Geolocation data processing
Explanation of Purpose:
4.2 Additional high-risk activities (not listed above):
List any other processing activities your entity has identified as high-risk under the statutory
definition and a brief description of the purposes and uses of each.
[Insert narrative or list here]
Section 5: Personal Data Sharing, Selling, and Purchasing
5.1 Personal Data Sharing, Selling, and Purchasing
Fulfills requirements of Subsections 63A-19-401.3(1)(c) and (d):
The chief administrative officer of each governmental entity shall prepare a report that includes:
a list of the types of personal data the governmental entity currently shares, sells, or
purchases and the legal basis for sharing, selling, or purchasing personal data.
Using the checkboxes below identify whether, and the types of, personal data that your
governmental entity shares, sells, or purchases and provide a summary of the legal basis for the
sharing, selling, or purchasing.
Types of Personal Data Share, Sell and | Legal Basis for Sharing, Selling or
Purchase Purchasing
Status
Basic Identification & Contact
Information
L]Share
e Full Name
e Date of Birth
LSell
e Place of Birth
e Gender
e Age

@ Government-Issued oO
Identifiers: Purchase
o Social Security
Number
CIN/A
© Driver's License or
State ID Number
o Passport Number
© Other national or
government-
assigned IDs
e Contact Information:
o Home Address
o Email Address(es)
© Phone Number(s)
o Mailing Address (if
different from
home address)
@ Demographic & Personal L|Share
Characteristics
e@ Race or Ethnicity
Sell
e Marital Status
e Nationality or Citizenship
O
e Language Preferences Purchase
e Household Information
© Household Size ON/A
o Household
Composition

e Employment & L1Share
Professional Information
@ Job Title and Position
Sell
e Employment History
e Employer Name
. . O
e Professional Credentials Purchase
o Professional
Licenses
LIN/A
© Certifications
e Work Contact Information
e Financial Data (Share
e Banking Details
o Bank Account CSell
Numbers
o Credit Card
Numbers O
. . Purchase
e Tax Identification
Numbers
e Income and Wage Data OON/A
e Credit Information
o Credit Reports
o Credit Scores
e Payment History
e Health and Medical Share
Information

@ Medical History
e Diagnoses or Treatments C1Sell
e Mental Health Data
e Health Insurance oO
Information Purchase
e Prescription Information
e Disability Status ON/A
e Education Information L]Share
e School or Institution
Attended
[Sell
e Student [ID Numbers
e Academic Records
O
© Grades Purchase
o Transcripts
e Special Education Status ON/A
e Disciplinary Records
e Government Program & _]Share
Benefits Data
e Program Participation
(e.g., SNAP, Medicaid, CSell
TANF)
e Eligibility Determinations
O
e Benefit Amounts or Purchase
Disbursements
e Case Management Notes

e Biometric Data []Share
e Physical Biometrics
o Fingerprints OSell
o Facial Recognition
Data
, , -!
o Retina or Iris Scans Purchase
e Voiceprints
e Genetic Information: DNA ON/A
or other genetic data
e Online & Digital L|Share
Identifiers
@ Network Identifiers
L]Sell
o IP Addresses
o Device IDs
. . 0
e Tracking Technologies Purchase
© Cookies
o Browser CN/A
Fingerprints
e Location Data (e.g., GPS,
precise geolocation)
e Login Credentials (e.g.,
usernames, hashed
passwords)
@ Online Activity Logs

e Criminal or Legal _|Share
Information
e Arrest Records
(Sell
e Conviction History
e@ Court Records
; Cj
e Probation or Parole Status Purchase
e Incarceration Records
LIN/A
@ Vehicle & Property Data L]Share
e Vehicle Information
o Vehicle CSell
Registration
o VIN Numbers
; O
e@ Property Ownership Purchase
o Property
Ownership or Deed
Information CON/A
o Property Tax
Records
e Utility Usage Data
e Photographic or Video (Share
Data
e Surveillance Footage
C1Sell

@ Government ID Photos
e School or Agency- CI
Provided Photo Records Purchase
e Body Camera Footage
e Public Meeting CIN/A
Recordings
e Voting & Civic Data _]Share
e Voter Registration
e Voting History CSell
e Political District
Assignments
O
e Civic Engagement PRICHase
Program Data
LIN/A
e Immigration & Travel L]Share
Information
e Visa Status
(Sell
e Travel History or
Itineraries
e Customs Declarations oO
oo, ; Purchase
e Immigration Proceedings
LIN/A
e Communication & L]Share
Complaints Data

e@ Correspondence
o Emails or Written LSell
Correspondence
© Call Transcripts or
Recordings LI
Purchase
@ Case Notes related to
complaints or service
requests
LIN/A
e
e Other L]Share
Explain:
LSell
O
Purchase
LIN/A
5.2 Personal Data Recipients and Sources
Fulfills requirements of Subsections 63A-19-401.3(1)(e)(i), (ii), and (iii):
The chief administrative officer of each governmental entity shall prepare a report that includes:
the category of individuals or entities with whom, to whom, and from whom the
governmental entity shares, sells, or purchases personal data.
Mark all that apply:

Personal Data Shared Governmental and Public Sector Entities
With:
I. Domestic Governmental Entities:
CiState, Local, Federal, or Tribal Governmental Entities
(Law Enforcement Agencies
CJJudicial or Court Systems
CLegislative Bodies or Policy Research Organizations
[JRegulatory Agencies
L1Professional Licensing Boards
II. International Governmental Entities:
CForeign Governments or International Organizations
L)Public Services & Emergency:
CEmergency Services / Disaster Response Agencies
(Public Utilities or Infrastructure Partners
Ill. | Public Disclosure:
[Public Disclosure / Open Records Releases
Commercial and Private Sector Entities
I. Service Providers & Vendors:

CThird-Party Service Providers / Contractors / Vendors
CCloud Service Providers / Hosting Platforms
OTechnology Integrators or Software Developers

II. Data & Marketing:
CiPrivate Sector / Commercial Companies
[Data Brokers / Aggregators
C)Social Media Platforms
lI. Financial & Insurance:
CiCredit Bureaus or Financial Institutions
C]Insurance Providers
IV. Healthcare:
CHealthcare Providers or Health Information Exchanges
Vv. Media:
(Media or News Organizations
Research, Education, and Nonprofit Entities
C)Research Institutions / Universities
[JEducational Institutions
CJNonprofit Organizations
CINon-Governmenta! Watchdogs / Advocacy Groups
Individuals and Oversight
CiIndividuals (e.g., data subjects or their authorized
representatives)
OCAuditors / Oversight Bodies
Other/Not Applicable (N/A)
CJOther (Specify as needed)

a
these categories)

Personal Data Sold To: Governmental and Public Sector Entities
I. Domestic Governmental Entities:
CState, Local, Federal, or Tribal Governmental Entities
ClLaw Enforcement Agencies
CJJudicial or Court Systems
OLegislative Bodies or Policy Research Organizations
(Regulatory Agencies
C1Professional Licensing Boards
Il. International Governmental! Entities:
(Foreign Governments or International Organizations
C)Public Services & Emergency:
ClEmergency Services / Disaster Response Agencies
C)Public Utilities or Infrastructure Partners
IH. Public Disclosure:
(Public Disclosure / Open Records Releases
Commercial and Private Sector Entities
I. Service Providers & Vendors:
OThird-Party Service Providers / Contractors / Vendors
O1Cloud Service Providers / Hosting Platforms
CiTechnology Integrators or Software Developers

Il. Data & Marketing:
O1Private Sector / Commercial Companies
L]Data Brokers / Aggregators
L)Social Media Platforms
lI. Financial & Insurance:
[Credit Bureaus or Financial Institutions
L]Insurance Providers
IV. Healthcare:
CHealthcare Providers or Health Information Exchanges
Vv. Media:
[Media or News Organizations
Research, Education, and Nonprofit Entities
(Research Institutions / Universities
(_]Educational Institutions
CJNonprofit Organizations
CINon-Governmental Watchdogs / Advocacy Groups
Individuals and Oversight
CiIndividuals (e.g., data subjects or their authorized
representatives)
(Auditors / Oversight Bodies
Other/Not Applicable (N/A)
[]Other (Specify as needed)

a ee
these categories)

Personal Data Purchased | Governmental and Public Sector Entities

From:
I. Domestic Governmental Entities:
OiState, Local, Federal, or Tribal Governmental Entities
[lLaw Enforcement Agencies
CJudicial or Court Systems
CLegislative Bodies or Policy Research Organizations
(Regulatory Agencies
LProfessional Licensing Boards
II. International Governmental Entities:
CForeign Governments or International Organizations
L|Public Services & Emergency:
(JEmergency Services / Disaster Response Agencies
L)Public Utilities or Infrastructure Partners
il. Public Disclosure:
[Public Disclosure / Open Records Releases
Commercial and Private Sector Entities
I. Service Providers & Vendors:
OThird-Party Service Providers / Contractors / Vendors
L1Cloud Service Providers / Hosting Platforms
CiTechnology Integrators or Software Developers

Il. Data & Marketing:
[Private Sector / Commercial Companies
(]Data Brokers / Aggregators
C)Social Media Platforms
II. Financial & Insurance:
(Credit Bureaus or Financial Institutions
CJInsurance Providers
IV. Healthcare:
CHealthcare Providers or Health Information Exchanges
Vv. Media:
(Media or News Organizations
Research, Education, and Nonprofit Entities
(Research Institutions / Universities
[]Educational Institutions
[]Nonprofit Organizations
[Non-Governmental Watchdogs / Advocacy Groups
Individuals and Oversight
OiIndividuals (e.g., data subjects or their. authorized
representatives)
LlAuditors / Oversight Bodies
Other/Not Applicable (N/A)
[lOther (Specify as needed)

CIN/A (Indicate if no data is shared with or received from any of
these categories)
Section 6: Privacy Training Completion
Fulfills requirement of Subsection 63A-19-401.3(1)():
The chief administrative officer of each governmental entity shall prepare a report that includes:
the percentage of the governmental entity's employees that have fulfilled the data privacy
training requirements described in Section 63A-19-401.2.
What percentage of your entity’s employees have completed the required privacy training
requirements described in Section 63A-19-401.2?
Section 7: Non-Compliant Processing Activities (Must be completed by Dec 31, 2027)
Fulfills requirement of Subsections 63A-19-401(2)(a)(iv)(D) and 63A-19-401.3(1)(g):
The chief administrative officer of each governmental entity shall prepare a report that includes:
a description of any non-compliant processing activities identified under Subsection 63A-
19-401(2)(a)(iv) and the governmental entity's strategy for bringing those activities into
compliance with Part 4 of the Government Data Privacy Act.
Have any non-compliant processing activities been identified pursuant to Utah Code § 63A-19-
401(2)(a)(iv)?

Ll¥es
LI1No
If yes, provide details:
Processing Processing Issues Identified | Strategies for Estimated
Activity Name Activity Type Compliance Completion Date
Certification
Certification must be completed by the governmental entity’s Chief Administrative Officer.
I, the undersigned, certify that the information provided in this report is accurate to the best of
my knowledge.
Name:
Signature:
Date:

City of Emigration Canyon Website Privacy Notice
Introduction
Thank you for visiting the City of Emigration Canyon (“Emigration Canyon,” “we,” or “our”)
website. We are committed to protecting your personal information and your right to
privacy. If you have any questions about this privacy statement or our practices about your
personal information, please contact Maridene Alexander
at Maalexander@msd.utah.gov.
What information do we collect?
In short: We collect personal information that you voluntarily provide to us and
information that is automatically collected.
1) Information You Provide to Us.
We collect personal information that you voluntarily provide to us when you express an
interest in obtaining information about us or our products and services, when you
participate in activities on the website or otherwise when you contact us. Personal
information shall be defined consistent with Utah Code 13-44-102.
The personal information that we collect depends on the context of your interactions with
us and the Website, the choices you make, and the products and features you use. The
personal information we collect may include the following:
Payment Data. We may collect data necessary to process your payment if you make
payments for services provided by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
(“MSD”). Please note, the MSD contracts with third-party vendors to collect and process
online payments for business licenses, building permits, planning applications and parking
ticket fines. These vendors collect information from you voluntarily when you register or
initiate online payment transactions through their websites. They collect your name,
address, email, phone number and credit/debit card number, card issue date, and the
security code associated with your payment instrument. You may find their privacy notice
here:

e Xpress Bill Pay - https://www.xpressbillpay.com/privacy/

e Cityworks — https://www.cityworks.com/legal/privacy-policy/
All personal information you provide must be true, complete, and accurate, and you must
notify us of any changes to such personal information.
2) Information Automatically Collected.

We automatically collect certain information when you visit, use, or navigate the Website.
This information does not reveal your specific identity (like your name or contact
information) but may include device and usage information, location data, or website
visitor information.

e Device Data-—such as your IP address (or proxy server), browser and device
characteristics (name, identification numbers, operating system), internet service
provider and/or mobile carrier, type of device, language preferences, referring URLs,
usage patterns and preferences as you navigate the Website.

e Location Data - such as device location, PGS and other technologies to collect
geolocation data that tells us your approximate location (based on your IP address).
You can opt out of allowing us to collect this information by refusing access to the
information or by disabling your location settings on your device.

e Website visitor information —we may collect information about how and when you
visit the Website about your visit, such as pages you visited and when you use the
Website and other information for our internal analytics and reporting purposes.

We contract with CivicPlus to be the Website content management system for Emigration

Canyon. Here is a link to their privacy policy: https://www.civicplus.com/privacy-policy/
We contract with Esri to use its Geographic Information System (GIS) IS system for
mapping and analyzing data. Here is a link to the ESRI Privacy
Policy: https://www.esri.com/en-us/privacy/privacy-statements/privacy-statement
How do we use your information?
In short: We process your information for purposes based on legitimate business
interests, the fulfillment of our service with you, compliance with our legal obligations,
and/or your consent.
We use personal information collected via the MSD Website for a variety of business
purposes described below. We process your personal information for these purposes in
reliance on our legitimate business interests, in order to provide you with a service, a
license, a permit, or other information, with your consent, and/or for compliance with our
legal obligations.
We use the information we collect or receive:

e To fulfill service obligations.

e To personalize the user experience on the Website.

e To improve customer service.

e Tosend periodic emails.

e Torespond to your inquiries or offer support to users.

¢ To provide you with a license or a permit needed to conduct business or build or
modify a business or home.

e Tosend administrative information to you.

e Toenforce ourterms, conditions and policies for business purposes, to comply with
regulatory requirements or in connection with our contract.

e Torespond to legal requests and prevent harm.

Will your information be shared with anyone?

In short: We only share information with your consent, to comply with laws, to provide
you with services, to protect your rights, or to fulfill business obligations.

We may process or share the data that we hold based on the following legal basis:

e Consent: We may process your data if you have given us specific consent to use
your personal information for a specific purpose.

e Legitimate Interests: We may process your data when itis reasonably necessary to
achieve our legitimate business interests.

e Performance of a Service: Where we are providing a service to you, we may
process your personal information to fulfill the request for a permit, license,
approval or other such purpose.

e Legal Obligations: We may disclose your information where we are legally required
to do so in order to comply with applicable law, governmental requests, a judicial
proceeding, court order, or legal process, such as in response to a court order ora
subpoena, consistent with Utah Code Sections 77-23c-101 to 77-23c-105.

° Vital Interests: We may disclose your information where we believe it is necessary
to investigate, prevent, or take action regarding potential violations of our policies,
suspected fraud, situations involving potential threats to the safety of any person
and illegal activities, or as evidence in litigation in which we are involved.

How long do we keep your information?

In short: We keep your information for as long as necessary to fulfill the purposes
outlined in this privacy notice unless otherwise required by law.

Emigration Canyon and the MSD will only keep your personal information for as long as itis
necessary for the purposes set out in this privacy notice unless a longer retention periodis
required or permitted by law (such as tax, accounting, or other legal documents). No
purpose in this notice will require us to keep your personal information for longer than three
years.

When Emigration Canyon and the MSD has no ongoing legitimate business need to process
your personal information, we will either delete or anonymize such information, or, if this is
not possible (for example, because your personal information has been stored in backup
archives), then we will securely store your personal information and isolate it from any
further processing until deletion is possible, consistent with Utah Code 13-44-201.

e Weretain personal data only as long as necessary to fulfill the purposes outlined in
this privacy statement unless a longer retention period is required or permitted by
law. (such as tax, accounting or other legal documents).

e Nopurpose in this statement will require us to keep your personal information for
longer than three years.

e Deletion schedule: consistent with Utah Code 13-44-201.

How do we keep your information safe?

In short: We aim to protect your personal information through a system of
organizational and technical security measures.

We have implemented appropriate technical and organizational security measures
designed to protect the security of any personal information we process. However, despite
our safeguards and efforts to secure your information, no electronic transmission over the
internet or information storage technology can be guaranteed to be 100% secure, So we
cannot promise or guarantee that unauthorized third parties will not be able to defeat our
security, and improperly collect, access, steal, or modify your information.

Although we will do our best to protect your personal information, transmission of personal
information to and from our Website is at your own risk. You should only access the
Website within a secure environment. If we become aware of a security breach we will
notify you pursuant to Utah Code Section 13-44-202.

What are your privacy rights?

In short: You may review, change, or terminate your account at any time.

Individuals have rights under respective laws, such as GRAMA, that may include access,
rectification, erasure, data portability, and objection to data processing rights. For more
detail on these rights contact your Privacy/Records Management officer at: Marla Howard
at mahoward@msd.utah.gov
How do we respond to a data breach?
In short: We have procedures to detect, report, and respond to data breaches
promptly, including notifying affected individuals and authorities.
How do we make updates to this notice?
In short: Yes, we will update this notice as necessary to stay compliant with relevant
laws.
We regularly review and update privacy policies to ensure compliance with respective
laws. We will update this policy as necessary to stay compliant with relevant laws. We
reserve the right, at our discretion, to change, modify, add, and/or remove portions of the
Privacy Policy at any time.
How can you contact us about this notice?
If you have questions or comments about our Privacy Policy Statement, you may email us
at Maalexander@msd.utah.gov

Last updated: 12/03/2025
