                                  EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL

                ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-04                               DATE: Jtne24,2025

                 ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 9 CHAPTER 72 SECTION I4O
                            ..AIR POLLUTION CONTROL"

        WHEREAS, the Emigration Canyon Council finds that it is in the public interest to address
fire ignition sources due to environmental issues (weather conditions and dry fuel loads),
topographical considerations (mountainous terrain, wildland interface, brush covered areas
throughout the city), public safety concerns (people, structures, waterways, washes, and property),
etc.; and

       WHEREAS, Utah Code $ l0-3-703 authorizes a municipality to restrict activities threatens
the health, safety, or welfare of the community.

          NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON
COUNCIL OF, UTAH, THAT:
        SECTION I: Title 9 Chapter 72 Section 140 "Air Pollution Control" is amended as
follows:

9.72.140 Open Burnine--Restrictions And Permit Requirements

A.      Community Waste Disposal. No open burning shall be done at sites used for disposal of
community trash, garbage or other wastes, except when authorized for specific periods of time by
the health department on the basis ofjustifiable circumstances reviewed and weighed in terms of
pollution effects and other relevant considerations following written application.
B.      General Prohibitions. No person shall burn any trash, garbage or other wastes, nor shall
they conduct any salvage operations, in any open fire except in conformity with the provisions of
subsections C and D of this section.

C.      Permissible Burning-Without Permit. When not prohibited by subsection F, other laws,
or by other officials having jurisdiction, and provided that a public nuisance is not created, the
following types of open burning are permissible without the necessity of securing a permit:
     I   . In devices for the primary purpose of preparing food, such as outdoor grills and fireplaces;
     2. Campfires and fires used solely for recreational purposes, where such fires are under the
        control of a responsible person. Anyone planning a fire larger than that defined in
        subsection 3l of Section 9.72.030 will be required to obtain a special permit. Bonfires,
        fires built to burn Christmas trees, rally fires and similar fires are prohibited;
     l. Indoor fireplaces;
     4. Properly operated industrial flares for combustion of flammable gases;
     -i. Burning on the premises of combustible household wastes generated by occupants of
         dwellings of four family units or less in those areas only where no public or duly licensed
          disposal service is available.


                                                   Page 1
D. Permissible Burning-With Permit-Exemptions. When not prohibited by other laws or
other officials having jurisdiction, and when a public nuisance is not created, the types of open
burning listed in paragraphs a through f of subdivision 4 of this subsection D are permissible:
      l. Under the terms of individual permits issued by the health department, under a clearing
          index system approved and coordinated by the Utah State Division of Health; or
      2. When specifically exempted by the health department following written application and
          appropriate consultation;
E.     Application may be made by a political subdivision of the county, as well as by an
individual citizen;
      l. All burning permitted under this section is to take place during the hours specified by the
          city-county health department:
          a. Agriculturalburning, including on-premises orchard prunings, field stubble, weeds, and
             open burning to clear irrigation ditches,

          b. Open burning of tree cuttings and slash in forest areas where the cuttings accrue from
             pulping, lumbering and similar operations, but excluding waste from sawmill operations
             such as sawdust and scrap lumber,

          c. Open burning of trees and bushes within railroad and public road rights-of-way,
             provided that dirt is removed from stumps before buming, and that tires, heavy fuel oil
             or other materials that cause severe air pollution are not used to start the fires or keep
             fires burning,
          d. Open burning of solid or liquid fuels or structures, for the removal of hazards or eyesores
             or for firemen training purposes, when conducted under the direct control and
             supervision of organized fire departments,
          e.'Open burning in remote areas of highly explosive or other dangerous materials for
             which there is no other known practical method of disposal,
          f. Open burning for special purposes, or under unusual circumstances, when approved by
             the health department following formal request.
F.      The use of ignition sources including but not limited to open fires, solid fuel fire pits,
lighters, matches, sky lanterns, open barbeques, and smoking materials is prohibited under the
following circumstances From May 1st through November 30th of each year:

     l. No open fires of any kind except within established public facilities in improved
     campgrounds, picnic areas. -OR- In permanently constructed fire pits at private homes where
     running water is present.
     2. Smoking, except within an enclosed vehicle, trailer or building, a developed recreation site
     or while stopped in an area that is paved or free from dry vegetation.

     3. Cutting, welding or grinding metal in areas of dry vegetation.
     5. Operating a motorcycle, chainsaw, ATV, or other small internal combustion engine
     without an approved and working spark arrestor.

                                        [Execution on following page]

                                                   Page 2
      ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Emigration Canyon Council on this 246 day
      ofJune 2025.

               TION



      By: Joe Smolka,


       ATTEST:


                     City

      Voting:
      Mayor Smolka voting
      Council Member Hawkes voting
      Council Member Brems voting
      Council Member Pinon voting
      Council Member Harris voting



(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was           on    Utah       Notice Website per Utah Code $10-3-
7tt
Effective date of ordinance:




                                                   Page 3
