                                     EMIGRATION CANYON


               RESOLUTIONNO. R2026-07                             DATE: March 17,2026
  A RESOLUTION PROVIDING PAID BEREAVEMENT LEAVE FOR EMPLOYEES
               PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. S 10-3-1103

        WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. $ l0-8-84 the Emigration Canyon ("Emigration
Canyon"), is authorized to enact and administer employee policies, including those related to
health, disability, and death benefits for its elective or appointive officers and employees; atrd

          WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1103, requires the governing body of each
municipality to provide, by ordinance or resolution, for at least three work days of paid
bereavement leave for employees following the end of a pregnancy by way of miscarriage or
stillbirth under specified circumstances; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council of Emigration Canyon desires to comply with Utah Code
Ann. $ 10-3-1103 by adopting a policy that incorporates the required bereavement leave
provisions, ensuring the well-being and support of municipal employees during times of personal
loss;

        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of Emigration Canyon,
Utah, that the following bereavement leave policy is hereby adopted and shall apply to all eligible
Emigration Canyon employees, effective immediately upon passage of this resolution:

Section 1: Definitions
As used in this policy:
    .    "Miscarriage" means the spontaneous or accidental loss of a fetus, regardless of the
         gestational age or the duration ofthe pregnancy.
    .    "Stillbirth" shall have the meaning consistent with applicable Utah law, generally
         referring to the loss of a fetus after 20 weeks of gestation.

Section 2: Eligibility for Bereavement Leave
Eligible employees shall be granted at least three (3) work days of paid bereavement leave
following:
    a) The end of the employee's pregnancy by way of miscarriage or stillbirth; or
    b) The end of another individual's pregnancy by way of miscarriage or stillbirth, if:
          i.    The employee is the individual's spouse or partner; or
         ii.    The employee is the individual's former spouse or partner; and
        iii.    The employee would have been a biological parent of a child born as a result of the
                pregnancy;
       lv    The employee provides documentation to show that the individual intended for the
             employee to be an adoptive parent, as that term is defined in Utah Code Ann. $ 81-
             13-101, of a child bom as a result of the pregnancy; or
       V     Under a valid gestational agreement in accordance with Utah Code Ann. Title 81,
             Chapter 5, Part 8, Gestational Agreement, the employee would have been a parent
             of a child born as a result of the pregnancy.

Section 3: Administration of Leave
   a   Bereavement leave under this policy shall be paid at the employee's regular base rate of
       pay and shall not include any special forms of compensation, such as incentives, bonuses,
       or shift differentials.
   a   Leave days do not need to be taken consecutively but must be used within a reasonable
       period following the qualiffing event, as determined by the municipal administration in
       consultation with the employee.
   a   Employees must notifu their supervisor as soon as practicable and provide any required
       documentation to verifu eligibility, such as a medical certification or other evidence of
       the miscarriage or stillbirth.
   a   This leave is in addition to any other applicable leave entitlements under municipal
       policy or state/federal law and does not count toward overtime calculations.
   a   If additional time off is needed, employees may request to use accrued paid time off
       (PTO), vacation, or other available leave, subject to approval by the municipal
       administration.

Section 4: Application and Enforcement
This policy applies to all full-time and part-time employees of the Emigration Canyon, including
elective and appointive offrcers, and shall be administered by the municipal administration or
designee in a manner consistent with Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1103. The City Council may
amend this policy as needed to maintain compliance with state law.

Section 5: This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon adoption.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Emigration Canyon City Council
on this LTthday of March 2026.

                              * * * Signatures on Following Page* * *
EMIGRATION CANYON COUNCIL




By:       Brems, Mayor




ATTEST:


Diana Baun, City Recorder


Voting:
Mayor Brems                 voting   Ary
Council Member Griffrth     voting C\0
Council Member Hawkes       voting
Council Member Harris       voting _W
Council Member Pinon        voting _q+_
