                                 EMIGRATION CANYON

ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0.-03                                               DATE: April2l,2026

        AN ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 7. UTILITIES, CHAPTER 1_
       COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM TO THE EMIGRATION
                          CANYON CODE

       WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 4l l, codified at
Utah Code Ann. $$ 54-17-9Ol to -909 ("Act"), titled the "Community Renewable Energy Act";
and

       WHEREAS, in 2024, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill241 and Senate
Bill 214 which, collectively, renamed the Act the "Community Clean Energy Act" and
amended certain provisions of the Act; and

       WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Utah Public Service Commission ("Commission")
to establish a program ("Program") whereby towns, municipalities, and counties may
cooperate with qualified utilities to provide electric energy for participating customers from
clean energy resources; and

         WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by
the program ifthe town, municipality, or county ("Community") in which the customer resides
satisfies certain requirements, including:

       (a) the Community must enter into an agreement with a qualified utility ("Utility
       Agreement"):

           (i) stipulating to the payment to the qualified utility of the costs of:

               (A) third-party expertise contracted for by the Division of Public
       Utilities and the Office of Consumer Services, for assistance with activities
       associated with initial approval of the Program; and

               (B) providing notice to the Community's customers as provided in the Act;

            (ii) determining the obligation for the payment of any termination charges
        under the Act that are not paid by a participating customer and not included in
        participating customer rates; and

           (iii) identifying any initially proposed replaced asset;

        (b) the Community must, within ninety (90) days after the date of the
        Commission's order approving the Program, adopt a local ordinance that:

            (i) establishes participation in the Program; and

                                                                                                 I
           (ii) is consistent with the terms of the Utility Agreement; and

       (c) the Community must comply with any other terms or conditions required by the
       Commission;and

      WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act and the Commission has adopted such rules as set forth in Utah Administrative
Code R746-314-101 through -402 ("Rules"); and

        WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
resides also adopts an agreement ("Govemance Agreement") with other eligible Communities to
establish a cooperative decision-making process for Program design, resource solicitation,
resource acquisition, and other Program issues and provides a means of ensuring that eligible
Communities and those that become participating Communities will be able to reach a single joint
decision on any necessary Program issues; and

        WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Rules, the City of Emigration Canyon
("Emigration Canyon") entered into an agreement with other eligible Communities entitled the
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement Among Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable
Energy Program ("Governance Agreement"), thereby becoming a member of the Community
Renewable Energy Agency ("Agency"), which endeavors to make certain joint decisions about the
proposed Program on behalf of Communities as set forth in the Governance Agreement; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, Emigration Canyon executed a
       Agreement with Rocky Mountain Power, a qualified utility under the Ac! on
                          which addresses the issues required by the Act; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on January 24,2025, and June 4,
2025, Rocky Mountain Power filed an application with the Commission seeking approval of the
Program and the Commission opened Docket No. 25-035-06 to consider the application; and

       WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on March 4, 2026, the
Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06 ("Commission Order") approving the
Program; and

      WHEREAS, as contemplated in the Act, the Emigration Canyon City Council ("the
Council") desires to adopt this ordinance that satisfies the requirements of the Act; and




                                                                                                   2
        WHEREAS, the Council desires to take actions which it has determined promotes the
health, safety and welfare of Emigration Canyon's residents; and

      WHEREAS, the Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance will enhance the
economic well-being of Emigration Canyon and its residents through prudent management of
Emigration Canyon's financial resources; and

         WHEREAS, the Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance will help address
concerns related to poor air quality and other environmental concerns due in part to the use of
fossil fuels; and

      WHEREAS, the Council finds that energy sources utilized by and within Emigration
Canyon therefore can impact public health, safety and welfare; and

         WHEREAS, recent advances in energy technology have made certain clean energy
resources more economically viable than in the past and, in some cases, more cost-effective than
traditional energy sources; and

      WHEREAS, proximity to outdoor recreation is a key economic contributor to Emigration
Canyon and one *tri.t relies on preservation of the environment and protection of natural
resources; and

       WHEREAS, Emigration Canyon and its residents have shown an interest in environmental
stewardship through various initiatives and activities surrounding groMh and development; and

        WHEREAS, the Council believes that determining and undertaking further actions
designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately balancing financial stewardship and
prorioting economic gro6h is in important component of safeguarding public health, safety and
welfare;and

       WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on April 21,2026 to, among other things,
consider adopting the Program on behalf of Emigration Canyon electric customers; and

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Adoption. Emigration Canyon Code, Title 7 - UTILITIES, Chapter I - COMMLfNITY
Cf-eeN p,NERGY PROGRAM, which is published as a code in book form, is adopted in
accordance with Exhibit A herein, copies of which have been filed for use and examination in the
Office of the City Recorder (the "Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance").




                                                                                                    J
Section 2. Savings Clause. In the event one or more of the provisions of this Community Clean
Energy Program Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be unenforceable or invalid in any
respect under applicable laws, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not affect any other
provision; and in such an event, this Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall be
construed as ifsuch unenforceable or invalid provision had never been contained herein.

Section 3. Effective Date. This Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall take effect
immediately upon the date of its first publication.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Emigration Canyon Council on this 2lst day of
April2026.

EMIGRATION CANYON


W
 ATTEST:

   1)*a;bar,,,,-
 Diana Baun, City Recorder

Voting:
Mayor Brems                    votins ULa
Council Member Hawkes          voting t,/JNl
Council Member Harris          voting Cr,r#
Council Member Pinon           voting   ctttl
Council Member Griffith        voting  14e
   (C omplete as Applicable)
   Date                      was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code $ l0-3-
   7   tt:
   Effective     of




                                                                                                     4
                                               EXHIBIT A

                                           TITLE 7 - UTILITIES

                     CHAPTER I - COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM

                            COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM


SECTION 7.1 EMIGRATION CANYON'S COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM

      7.1.1 Emigration Canyon hereby establishes its participation in the Community Clean
Energy Program ("Program") as approved by the Public Service Commission of Utah
("Commission").

       7.1.2 On March 4,2026, the Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06
("Commission Order") approving the Program. The Commission Order is on file with the
Commission. The Program's rates, Rules, and requirements are governed by the Commission
Order, and may be modified from time to time by subsequent Rules and orders adopted by the
Commission. To the extent that the Commission Order or any subsequent rule or order adopted by
the Commission contradicts any portion of this Title, the Commission order or rule or order
adopted by the Commission shallgovern.

       7.1.3 ELIGIBLE CUSTOMERS. Pursuant to Utah Code $ 54-17-905(5), residential
customers participating in the net metering program under Utah Code Title 54, Chapter 15, Net
Metering of Electricity, Rocky Mountain Power Schedule 135, are not eligible to participate in the
Program. All other retail electric customers of Rocky Mountain Power within the current and
future boundaries of Emigration Canyon, including all residential, commercial, and industrial
customers, are eligible to participate in the Program ("Eligible Customer"). Eligible Customers
include rooftop solar customers on Rocky Mountain Power Schedules 136 and 137, which are
compensated through an export credit rather than a net metering credit.

        7.1.4 IMPLEMENTATION DATE. The Program shall be implemented on the date that
RMP sends out the first Notices identified in Section 2, below ("Program Implementation Date").
Eligible Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they receive the Notices and decline to opt
out of participation in the Program by the date set forth in the Notices. Consistent with the Act and
the Rules, the Notices shall be sent to each Eligible Customer before the commencement date that
applies to each such customer ("Customer Commencement Date"), as set forth in the Rules.


SECTION 7.2 CUSTOMERPARTICIPATION

      7.2.1 Each Eligible Customer shall be automatically enrolled in the Program unless the
customer opts out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement Date.

       7.2.2 NOTICES. As set forth in the Act and the Rules before any Eligible Customer
becomes a participant in the Program, Rocky Mountain Power first shall deliver to each Eligible
Customer certain notices (collectively, the "Notices") containing content and in the form, manner,

                                                                                                        5
and delivery method as required by the Act and Rules and other orders

       7.2.3 OPT-OUT. Each Eligible Customer may elect not to participate in the Program and
instead to pay applicable existing electric rates by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the
manner and within the time period set forth in the Notices.

               7.2.3.1FIRST OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a First
       Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer within
       Emigration Canyon, no earlier than sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30) days before
       the Customer Commencement Date applicable to each customer. The First Opt-Out Notice
       shall, in all material respects, use the form and content of the First Opt-Out Notice as
       approved by the Commission.

               7.2.3.2 SECOND OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a
       Second Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer
       within Emigration Canyon, at least fifteen (15) days after the First Opt-Out Notice was
       provided and at least seven (7) days before the Customer Commencement Date applicable
       to such customer. The Second Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form
       and content of the Second Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.

             7.2.3.3 Each Eligible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice and the
       Second Opt-Out Notice as described herein and declines to opt out of the Program by the
       customer's Customer Commencement Date will be enrolled in the Program.

        7.2.4 CUSTOMER OPTION TO OPT IN TO PROGRAM. An Eligible Customer
located within Emigration Canyon that is not enrolled in the Program may at any time elect to
participate in the Program by providing notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the form and content
approved by the Commission. Following such notice to opt in to the Program, the customer will
be enrolled in the Program starting with the billing period following the notice in which it is
reasonably practicable for Rocky Mountain Power to enroll such customer. The reasonably
practicable billing period shall be based on when the notice was received from the customer and
the customer's billing cycle. Following enrollment in the Program, the customer shall be subject
to all Program requirements.

      7.2.5 CUSTOMER OPTION TO EXIT PROGRAM. Customers enrolled in the Program
may exit the Program by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power.

SECTION 7.3 TERMINATION FEES

        7 .3.1 If a customer declines to opt out of the Program prior to the applicable Customer

Commencement Date, but subsequently exits the Program, the exiting customer may be required
to pay a termination fee, as set forth in this Section.
       7.3.2
       7.3.3 When applicable, the amount of the termination fee shall be based on the rate
schedule of the exiting customer as approved by the Commission and may be modified from time
to time by subsequent orders of the Commission.

       7.3.4 CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH TERMINATION FEE SHALL NOT APPLY: A
                                                                                                      6
Termination Fee shall not apply in the following circumstances:

                7 .3.3.1   Any customer that opts out of the Program within the "Cancellation Period"
                           applicable to that customer, as defined in the Rules.
                7.3.3.2
                7.3.3.3 Any customer that ceases to be an electric customer of Rocky Mountain
                        Power;

                7 .3.3.4 Any customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries
                           of a community that participates in the Program;

                7 .3.3.5   Any customer that seeks protection through bankruptcy proceedings;

                7.3.3.6 Any customer enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance ("Low-lncome Lifeline
                        Program").


SECTION 7.4 ACQUISITION OF CLEAN ENERGY RESOURCES

        7.4.1 For purposes of this section, "clean energy resource" shall have the definition set
forth in the Act.

         7.4.2 Rocky Mountain Power may adopt or procure one or more clean energy resources
to serve the needs and goals of the Program. The acquisition of any such clean energy resource
must follow solicitation application and evaluation criteria approved by the Commission.

       7.4.3 Any clean energy resource adopted or procured by Rocky Mountain Power to serve
the needs and goals of the Program must be approved by the Commission based on a finding the
same is reasonable and in the public interest.

       7.4.4 The Commission shall determine the method of cost recovery for any clean energy
resource acquired to meet Program needs and goals, and the Commission's determination
regarding cost recovery may affect Program rates.


SECTION 7.5 PROGRAM RATES AND RATE ADJUSTMENT FILINGS

         7.5.1 Program rates will be determined by the Commission.
         7.5.2 The initial Program rates were determined by the Commission in the Commission
Order.

        7.5.3 Program rates may be adjusted by the Commission from time to time, consistent
with the procedures approved by the Commission for adjusting Program rates.


SECTION 7.6 UTILITY BILLING FOR PARTICIPATING CUSTOMERS


                                                                                                        7
        7.6.1   Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a monthly basis
and shall:

                7.6.1.1 include information in its monthly bills to participating customers
                        identifying the Program cost; and

                7.6.1.2provide notice to participating customers of any change in rates for
                       participation in the Program.


SECTION 7.7 EMIGRATION CANYON PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM

        7.7.1 Through its membership in the Community Renewable Energy Agency, Emigration
Canyon participated in the design and approval of the Program and shall participate in future
decisions regarding clean energy resource solicitation, clean energy resource acquisition, and
certain other Program issues.

      7.7.2 Consistent with Utah Code $ 54-17-903(2)(a), Emigration Canyon entered into an
agreement with Rocky Mountain Power ("RMP") regarding the facilitation of the Program
("Utility Agreement"). Pursuant to the Utility Agreement, Emigration Canyon:

                7.7.2.1shall pay for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in connection
                       with the Program's development and initialapproval by the Commission;

                                    proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices
                7 .7 .2.2 shall pay its

                        to the Emigration Canyon customers as discussed in Section 2, above;

                7.7 .2.3 Termination charges not paid by a participating customer shall be included
                        in participating customer rates and shallnot be paid by Emigration Canyon;

                7 .7.2.4 There shall be no   initially proposed "Replaced Asset" as that term is defined
                        by Utah Code $ 54-17-902(15).

       7.7.3 Emigration Canyon has already approved the appropriation of funds and has
already paid those funds to the Agency for the Agency to make payments for the costs of third-
party expertise contracted for in connection with the Program's development and initial approval
by the Commission pursuant to the Governance Agreement.

       7.7.4 Emigration Canyon hereby approves the appropriation of funds to pay its
proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices to the Emigration Canyon's
customers as discussed in Section 2, above.

       7.7.5 Emigration Canyon shall not be obligated to pay any costs of the Program other
than those costs set forth herein and any costs that Emigration Canyon may bear as a utility
customer that participates in the Program, if applicable.




                                                                                                           8
                              SUMMARY OF
                        EMIGRATION CANYON CITY
                       ORDINANCE NO. ZPUo -o - 07

On    ftpr'\ Ll,lPZtct             the Emigration Canyon Council enacted Ordinance No.
                 z                       dtnance-          cf1     nt\a I -
               Clna        t-           rn4l1          V1                       hA
                       rtitOv:r           o




By: David Brems, Mayor



ATTEST



Diana Baun, Recorder




Voting:

Mayor Brems               voting
                                   49
Council Member Hawkes     voting   qL
Council Member Griffith   voting 0,LQ
Council Member Harris     voting   U!
Council Member Pinon      voting   U*

A complete copy of Ordinance No. TnUe-O- Ol is available in the office of the
Emigration Canyon Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300 Taylorsville, UT 84123.
