                  EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH

                                                                                    2017

A ORDINANCE RECOGNIZING THE TOWNSHIP'S PARTICIPATION IN THE SALT
LAKE COUNTY BOARD OF HEALTH AND ADOPTING BY REFERENCE THE
APPLICABLE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF HEALTH

                                           RECITALS

       A.      Utah State Code section 26A- l-l 03 provides that the governing body of each
county shall establish and maintain a health department which includes and serves all
incorporated and unincorporated areas in the County.

        B.     Utah State Code section I 0-7-3 provides that each municipality shall participate
in and cooperate with the local health department operating in the county in which the
municipality is located and that the municipality shall cooperate with the board of health in the
adoption of ordinances necessary for the protection of public health.

        C.     The Emigration Metro Township is defined as a municipality under Utah law with
the power to adopt ordinances and regulation regarding the health safety and welfare of its
residents.

                                          ORDINANCE

      NOW, THEREFORE,           IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:

I. The following is hereby adopted to establish the health department and related health
regulations for the Township:

        Section ------            Board Of Health Established.

       The Salt Lake Valley health department is designated as th(
       Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

       Section ------            Powers and Duties Of The Boar
                                                                     ,':;u cf::7t5Y1
               A. Emigration Canyon Metro Township may cont             1\JJJ\7t\aeJ
       health department on such terms and conditions as the parti
       provisions of this title and such other ordinances of the Tov
       require action or impose any duty on the board of health.
                                                                      f\ \\Q_OtG1£f
               B. The board of health shall review and approve all applications for permits to
       operate any business or engage in any construction for which a permit is required from
       the board of health pursuant to any ordinances or regulations of Emigration Canyon
       Metro Township.

                C. The board of health shall recommend to the Township Council such health
       rules, regulations and ordinances as it deems necessary for the health of the persons,
       residents and legal entities within Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

       Section ------            Health Director Position Created.

       The health director of the Salt Lake Valley health department is designated as the health
       director of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

       Section ------            Powers and Duties of The Director.

               A. The health director may appoint or designate any qualified person to act as
       his/her assistant for the purpose of enforcing the applicable ordinances of the Emigration
       Canyon Metro Township.

               B. Subject to the terms and conditions of the contract with the Salt Lake Valley
       health department, Emigration Canyon Metro Township may enforce all ordinances
       relating to health department regulations as referenced and adopted as set forth below.

       Section ______            Salt Lake Valley Health Regulations Adopted.

               A. The applicable and duly adopted regulations of the Salt Lake Valley health
       department are adopted by this reference as Township ordinances insofar as they are
       consistent with other effective ordinance provisions not adopted by reference. This
       adoption by reference includes any such regulations or amendments thereof adopted by
       the Salt Lake Valley health department after the effective date of this ordinance, unless
       repealed by further ordinance.

       Section ------            Air Pollution Control:

       The Salt Lake County air pollution control code, set forth in title 9, chapter 76 of the Salt
       Lake County code, as currently adopted and as hereinafter amended, is adopted as the
       "air pollution control code" of the Township.


II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code
10-3-711.
III. The Salt Lake County Clerk acting for the Township and municipal recorder/clerk pursuant
to Utah Code l 0-3c-20 I (I )(a)(ii) is hereby authorized to provide appropriate title, chapter, part,
and section numbers for the provision of this ordinance and pursuant to Utah Code 10-3-713
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, this ordinance, along with all
ordinances passed by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

IV. The recorder/clerk shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not
already so done.

V. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder/clerk shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required.

       APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah, this~day of Arv·,I , 2017.




AfTEST:




                                               Voting:
                                               Council Member Raile            ¥-
                                               Council Member Smolka      Ace
                                               Council Member Hawkes      &y,e,
                                               Council Member Brems       Jf.Jf:_
                                               Council Member Christensen      ¥
