EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
ORDINANCE No. [97 \ 2-2] December |4,2018
A ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2 OF THE CURRENT APPLICABLE CODE
CONCERNING ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL IN THE TOWNSHIP
RECITALS

A. Utah State Code section 10-2a-414 provides that when a metro township is
incorporated that each county ordinance that is in effect on the day that metro township is
incorporated will remain in effect as a metro township ordinance until the metro township
council amends or repeals the ordinance.

B. The current code applicable in the Township establishes procedures and processes
regarding the administration and personnel management in the Township.

C. The Township Council desires to amend the provisions to fit the form of government
in the Township.

ORDINANCE

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:
I. The current code Title 2- Administration and Personnel is amended to read as shown in
Exhibit A hereto with the exception that Chapter 2.56 - COMMUNITY GREATER SALT
LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICTS AND COMMUNITY COUNCILS shall remain
in force and effect until modified.
II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code 10-3-
711.
II. The Salt Lake County Clerk acting for the Township and municipal recorder/clerk pursuant
to Utah Code 10-3c-201(1)(a)(ii) is hereby authorized to provide appropriate title, chapter, part,
and section numbers for the provision of this ordinance and pursuant to Utah Code 10-3-713
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, this ordinance, along with all
ordinances passed by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

1

IV. The recorder shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not already so
done.
V. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting, as required.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah, this ]}9__ day of Deceynber, 2018.
MAYOR
/ y a= | / 2

ATTEST: Joe Smolka

Voting:

Council Member Paine te

Council Member Smolka #t©

Council Member Hawkes ks te

Council Member Brems Me

Council Member Bowen Ate

2

EXHIBIT A

TITLE 2—ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL

Chapter 2.04 - EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

2.04.010 - Eligibility—Number of members.

2.04.020 - Term of office.

2.04.030 - Vacancy filling.

2.04.040 - Powers and duties.

2.04.050 - Election of chairman and vice-chairman—Appointment of staff—

Administrative matters.

2.04.060 — Clerk — Act as Emigration Canyon Metro Township Recorder—Minutes.

2.04.070 - Council meetings.

2.04.075 - Work meetings.

2.04.080 - Regular meetings.

2.04.090 - Special meetings.

2.04.100 - Closed meetings.

2.04.110 - Emergency meetings.

2.04.130 - Additional committees.

2.04.140 - Agenda.

2.04.150 - Public hearings.

2.04.160 - Form of action.

2.04.170 - Quorum.

2.04.180 - Rules of order—General.

2.04.210 - Appointment duties.

2.04.010 - Eligibility—Number of members.

The Emigration Canyon Metro Township council shall consist of five members, elected

at-large. Each of the-members shall have been an elector of the Emigration Canyon

Metro Township for at least one year immediately preceding the general election, and

have been an elector of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township for at least one year
3

immediately preceding the general election, and elected by the qualified electors of the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

2.04.020 - Term of office.

Emigration Canyon Metro Township council members shall be elected at the municipal
election next preceding the expiration of the term of office of incumbents, the council
members shall be elected for four year. Each shall hold office for the term for which
elected and until a successor is elected and has qualified.

2.04.030 - Vacancy filling.

When a vacancy occurs in the council, through ineligibility, resignation or death of an
incumbent or of an officer-elect before qualifying, or refusal to act, or for any other
reason, the vacancy shall be filled as provided in state statute.

2.04.040 - Powers and duties.
The council shall be the governing body of Emigration Canyon Metro Township
government, and may exercise those powers and authorities and be bound by those
duties and responsibilities set out in state statute and in Township ordinances.
2.04.050 - Election of Mayor and vice-chair—Appointment of staff—Administrative
matters.
A. .At its first meeting in January of each year following a municipal election, the council
shall elect one council member as Mayor of the Township and chair of the council and
another council member as vice-chair. The term of the Mayor and vice-chair shall be
two years.

4

B. The council may make such staff appointments as are necessary for the proper
conduct of its business.
C. The council may, from time to time, determine a method or order for the selection of
a council member to act as a temporary Mayor in the absence of the Mayor and vice-
chair, and take such action as may be reasonable and necessary for the conduct of
council activities and the fulfilling of council functions and responsibilities.
D. The Mayor, vice-chair or temporary Mayor; as the case may be, shall be responsible
for the conduct of all meetings, preparation of the agenda for all meetings, and meeting
the needs of the council between meetings, including the providing of assistance and
the gathering of information for the council and the performance of duties assigned by
the council or by ordinance, the plan or by law.
E. In case of the Mayor and vice-chair's absence or inability to act, the members
present must, by an order entered in their minutes, select one of the members to act as
Mayor temporarily.
F. Any member of the council may administer oaths to any person when necessary in
the performance of official duties.
2.04.060 — Clerk — Act as Emigration Canyon Metro Township Recorder—Minutes.
A. The Salt Lake County Clerk, or designee, shall serve as Emigration Canyon Metro
Township recorder and clerk to the council at all meetings.
B. the Salt Lake County Clerk, or designee, shall provide copies of the minutes of all
meetings of the council to council members in a manner and within the times as
established by the council and agreed upon by the clerk.

5

C. In accordance with state statute, the books, records and accounts of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township council must be maintained at the office of the clerk and open
at all times during usual business hours for public inspection.
D. The records and minutes of the council must be signed by the Mayor and the clerk.
2.04.070 - Council meetings.
A. All meetings of the council must be public except as provided in this chapter and by
state law. Official action may be taken by the council only in open public meetings
unless otherwise permitted by state statute.
B. The council shall conduct its business in accordance with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act, Chapter 4 of Title 52. Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, as it now
exists or as it may hereinafter be amended, with respect to open and public meetings.
C. The council conducts the following types of meetings:
1. Regular meetings
2. Special meetings
3. Closed meetings
4. Work and other meetings
5. Emergency meetings
D. The council shall give public written notice at least once each year of its annual
meeting schedule for regular meetings. The public notice shall specify the date, time
and place of such meetings.

6

G. The council, by majority vote of the members present, may direct the removal of any
person who willfully disrupts a council meeting to the extent that orderly conduct is
seriously compromised.
H. The attorney and auditor or their designees may attend and assist the council at all
meetings, but shall attend and assist the council at all meetings when requested.
2.04.075 - Work meetings.
A. The council conducts a regular work session at the place, hour and place designated
by the Mayor.
B. Work meetings shall be scheduled or cancelled as the public business requires and
shall consist of discussion, review, testimony, requests and information from Emigration
Canyon Metro Township and county officers and employees, presentations by the
public, review of regular meeting agendas, preparation for regular meetings, and such
other matters and activities as may be necessary or scheduled by the Mayor.
C. Work meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state statute and public
notice shall be given of all meetings in the same manner as required for regular
meetings.
D. Official actions, including council votes, may be undertaken in work meetings.
E.A quorum of council members is necessary to conduct work meetings.
2.04.080 - Regular meetings.
A. Regular meetings shall be held; provided, regular meetings may be cancelled as
provided in ordinance or by the action of the council at a previous meeting.

7

B. If approved by council vote, the council may hold occasional meetings outside the
normal meeting location as the public business requires.
C. Public notice of each meeting shall be given in accordance with state law.
D. Unless determined otherwise by a majority vote of council members present, the
order of business for regular meetings shall be as follows:
1. Call to order;
2. Invocation, reading or thought and pledge of allegiance:
3. Citizen public input;
4. Report of Mayor;
5. Council members' reports;
6. County and Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District representatives’ reports;
7. Pending business, including resolutions and ordinances, financial matters, public
notices and hearings, and such other matters and business as may be necessary:
8. Walk-on matters and other business, as provided by law;
9. Adjourn.
2.04.090 - Special meetings.
A. If, at any time, the business of the council requires a special meeting of the council:
such meeting may be ordered by two members of the council or by the Mayor.
8

B. The order setting a special meeting must be in writing and signed by the council
members or Mayor calling such meeting, be entered in the minutes of the council and
state the purposes and proposed agenda for the meeting.
C. Except in emergency situations, at least twenty-four hours' written notice of any
special meeting must be given to council members and the mayor and must be
published as directed in the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Section 52-4-202,
Utah Code Ann. (1953, as amended).
D. No business may be transacted at such special meetings except as specified in the
order setting the special meeting.
E. Special meetings may be conducted at places other than the normal meeting
location: provided however, that proper notice shall be given of the time and place of the
special meeting in accordance with law.
2.04.100 - Closed meetings.
A. A closed meeting of the council may be held upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
the members present at an open meeting for which notice has been given in
accordance with state statute; provided, however, that a quorum must be present.
B. No closed meeting is allowed except as to matters exempted from open meetings
under the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Section 52-4-204. Utah Code Ann.
(1953, as amended).
C. No official action may be taken at a closed meeting.
D. The reason or reasons for holding a closed meeting and the vote thereon shall be
entered in the minutes of the meeting.

9

2.04.110 - Emergency meetings.
When, because of unforeseen circumstances, it is necessary for the council to hold an
emergency meeting to consider matters of an emergency or urgent nature, the normal
notice requirements for a meeting may be disregarded and the best notice practicable
given to the council members and the public. No such emergency meeting of the council
shall be held unless an attempt has been made to notify all council members and a
majority of the council votes in the affirmative to hold the meeting. Action may not be
taken at an emergency meeting unless a quorum is present. A record shall be kept of
the means utilized to contact the members and the number voting and names of the
members voting to hold the meeting.
2.04.130 - Additional committees.
A. The council may establish additional committees as it deems appropriate and may
convene committee meetings at any time for the purpose of study, discussion,
investigation, formal hearings or inquiries, workshops, training, or presentations by or
responses from citizens or other interested persons or groups.
B. No official action may be taken in committee meetings other than the adoption of
non-binding recommendations to the council.
C. Committee meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state statute and
public notice shall be given of all committee meetings in the same manner as required
for regular meetings.

10

2.04.140 - Agenda.
A. An agenda shall be prepared by the Mayor or the vice-chair in the Mayor's absence
or the temporary Mayor, in the absence of both the Mayor and vice-chair, in advance of
each meeting, including emergency meetings to the extent possible. The agenda shall
be published as provided by state statute at least twenty-four hours in advance of the
meeting.
B. Matters received from any two or more council members, or the Mayor, shall be
placed on the agenda. Requests for matters to be placed upon the agenda by persons
other than council members or Mayor shall be placed on the agenda at the discretion of
the Mayor.
C. The council, for its regular, special and committee meetings, shall announce and
post its agenda and provide copies thereof to local news media, in accordance with the
provisions of state law, at least twenty-four hours prior to the convening of the council
meeting and posted on the Utah Public Notice Website. Written notice of the agenda
and meeting shall be posted at the office of the council at the regular meeting place of
the council and such other places as may be determined by the council. In the event of
an emergency meeting, public notice and notice to the news media shall be given as
may be practical under the circumstances.
D. The agenda may be changed by a majority vote of the council, but no action may be
taken on new matters introduced to the agenda unless twenty-four hours notice has
been duly given to the public or unless the matter is of an emergency nature, as
approved by a separate majority vote of council members present.

11

E. All agenda items pertaining to pending or proposed actions shall be considered as
proposals for adoption. In the absence of a motion to adopt, postpone, or table pending
or proposed actions, the Mayor shall, upon the conclusion of discussion on the matter,
declare that the proposal fails adoption or, at the Mayor's discretion, declare the matter
to be held over for a subsequent meeting.
2.04.150 - Public hearings.
A. Public hearings shall be deemed to include only those hearings specifically noticed
and required to be conducted by the council by state statute or otherwise for the
purposes of providing opportunities for the general public to comment upon and make
inquiries or presentations with respect to specific proposals or matters under
consideration by the council including, but not limited to, planning and zoning,
ordinances, budget hearings, hearings on the proposed issuance of bonds or debt, or
other matters of significant public interest. The council at its discretion may schedule
public hearings for other matters under consideration.
B. Public hearings may be held as part of a regular special, committee, emergency or
other meeting of the council. The decision to conduct a public hearing shall be made by
the council at a regular, special or emergency meeting.
C. Schedules for public hearings shall be announced by the Mayor and public notice
shall be given in the manner required for any public meeting of the council as required
by law and this chapter. The notice shall include the specific subject matter of the public
hearing as well as the time, date and place thereof.

12

D. At the beginning of any public hearing, the Mayor may publicly state the rules of
conduct for such public meetings including any time limits on speakers' presentations,
any requirement of submitting materials in writing with sufficient copies for all council
members and the clerk, and such other rules as may be reasonably necessary for the
proper and expeditious conduct of the public hearing.
E. Public hearings shall be opened upon the declaration of the Mayor that the council is
at that time in a public hearing and the Mayor shall state the specific purpose of that
public hearing. Upon the conclusion of the public hearing and a motion duly made,
seconded, and carried by a majority of the council, the Mayor shall declare the public
hearing concluded or continued to another date, if permitted by law. The Mayor shall
state the conditions of any continuance.
F. Where permitted by law, the council may rehear any matter decided after a public
hearing where an aggrieved person files a written request for rehearing that includes
new evidence which the council determines to justify reconsideration of its decisions. A
request for rehearing shall be filed within ten days from the date of the original decision.
If a request for rehearing is granted by the council, the rehearing shall follow the same
procedures as the original hearing. No rehearing shall be allowed on any matter where
a rehearing would be contrary to state law.
2.04.160 - Form of action.
The council may take action in the form of ordinances, policies, resolutions, motions
upon requests or memorials.
A. Ordinances.

13

1. The council, except as expressly limited by statute, may adopt any ordinance to
regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activities, business, conduct,
or condition.
2. All ordinances must be in written form before a vote is taken.
3. Except for ordinances for the codification or general revision of Emigration Canyon
Metro Township ordinances, no ordinance shall be passed containing more than one
subject.
4. Any ordinance passed by the council shall contain and be in substantially the
following order and form:
a. Ordinance number and date;
b. A short title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the ordinance;
c. A long title stating the need or reason for the ordinance and summarizing its contents:
d. An ordaining clause which states "The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council
ordains as follows:”
e. The body or subject of the ordinance;
f. When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of the ordinance;
g. Astatement indicating the effective date of the ordinance;
h. A signature line for the Mayor or acting Mayor and for the County Clerk;
i. An ordinance history indicating the approval or disapproval of the council members
and an ordinance summary as required by statute.

14

5. Except in exigent circumstances, or when directed by a majority of council members
present, all ordinances, including ordinances relating to planning and zoning matters,
shall be introduced in writing and read or described to the council at least one meeting
prior to the council's consideration for adoption of the ordinance. Copies of the proposed
ordinance shall be provided to the news media and posted in public places, along with
the agenda for the meeting at which the ordinance is to be considered.
6. Upon adoption, each ordinance shall be signed as required within five days.
B. Resolutions.
1. Resolutions shall be considered and adopted in those matters required by law or
otherwise and may be used for policy declarations and proposals not appropriately
addressed by ordinance and may be used to exercise council authority in matters of
statements of policy and communication.
2. Resolutions shall be in a form and contain sections substantially similar to that
prescribed for ordinances.
C. Memorials.
1. Memorials shall be adopted in the form of resolutions or motions, as may be deemed
appropriate, and shall be used as a statement of policy to respond to or commend
persons or groups for notable activities which have been called to the attention of the
council.
2. Memorials may be considered and adopted at the same meeting in which they have
been proposed and in all events shall be recorded in the minutes.
D. Policies, Procedures, Rules and Regulations.

15

1. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be considered and adopted in those
matters determined to be appropriate by the council and not prohibited by statute.
2. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be presented, considered and given
notice in the same manner as prescribed for ordinances and shall be in such form as
directed by the council.
E. All resolutions, policies, procedures, rules, regulations and ordinances shall be
numbered, recorded and maintained in accordance with provisions of state law.
2.04.170 - Quorum.
A.A quorum shall consist of three council members including the mayor, unless some
other quorum is required by state statute. No action may be taken without a quorum of
council members present.
B. All council action shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of council members,
unless some other requirement is established by state statute.
2.04.180 - Rules of order—General.
A. Procedural rules not specifically provided herein or by state law, county ordinance or
the plan, may be regulated, interpreted and construed in accordance with Robert's
Rules of Order.
B.As circumstances may reasonably require, the council may, upon a two-thirds vote of
the members present, temporarily suspend the rules with respect to the specific matter
before it.

16

2.04.210 - Appointment duties.
Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of these ordinances, of the
plan, and of the laws of the state, the appointment and reappointment of members of
boards within the jurisdiction and under the appointment or consent power of the council
shall be as herein provided.
A. For boards whose members hold terms of three years or less, board members may
be reappointed to a consecutive term on their respective boards with the consent of a
majority of the council.
B. For boards whose members hold terms of longer than three years, no board member
shall be reappointed to a consecutive term on the same board unless, for good cause
shown and to prevent significant disruption of current board activities, the council
approves such reappointment.
C. The restrictions upon the reappointment of board members, as provided under this
section, shall be limited to the extent that this section may be in direct conflict with
federal or state law and where the appointment of board members is set out by or
limited under the laws of the United States or the state of Utah.
Chapter 2.06A — Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor
2.06A.010 - Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor.
2.06A.020 - Powers and duties.
2.06A.010 - Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor.
A. The chief executive officer of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township is the Mayor
of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

17

B. At its first meeting in January of each year following a municipal election, the council
shall elect one council member as Mayor of the Township and chair of the council and
another council member as vice-chair. The term of the Mayor and vice-chair shall be
two years.
C. When a vacancy occurs in the office of Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor,
through ineligibility, resignation or death of an incumbent; or for any other reason, the
vacancy shall be filled from among the members of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township council by majority vote of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council.
2.06A.020 - Powers and duties.
A. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor shall be the chief executive officer
of Emigration Canyon Metro Township_government and shall have such powers and
duties as are prescribed by statute and by these ordinances, and shall serve as a
voting member and chair of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council.
B. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor shall serve as the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township’s representative on the board of directors of the Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Services Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and, as such,
shall exercise those powers and duties relative to the management of the Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Services Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District as are provided
by law.
C. The Emigration Canyon Metro Township Mayor shall exercise those executive
branch powers and duties set out by state statute, which have not been expressly
vested, by state statute or Township ordinances, in another elected official.

18

Chapter 2.07 - EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP ETHICS CODE
2.07.010 - Ethics statement.
2.07.020 - Employee training.
2.07.030 - Government in the sunshine.
2.07.201 - Conflict of interest.
2.07.202 - Emigration Canyon Metro Township endorsements.
2.07.203 - Definitions.
2.07.204 - Gifts.
2.07.205 - Gifts and the procurement process.
2.07.206 - Honoraria.
2.07.207 - Exceptions.
2.07.208 - Restrictions on post-county employment.
2.07.209 - Nepotism.
2.07.401 - Political activities of employees.
2.07.402 - Prohibitions on political use of Emigration Canyon Metro Township
resources.
2.07.010 - Ethics statement.
All persons holding office or in the employment of Emigration Canyon Metro Township,
before commencing the duties of their respective offices, shall read and review the
following ethics statement:
Employees of Emigration Canyon Metro Township support, obey and defend the
Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of the
State of Utah, and the ordinances of Emigration Canyon Metro Township, to the best of
their abilities and will always strive to meet the highest ethical standards implicit in their
employment and in the furtherance of the best public interest.

19

2.07.020 - Employee training.
All Emigration Canyon Metro Township elected officials and employees shall attend
ethics training every two years regarding their ethical duties and responsibilities as
established by state statute and by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Ethics
Code. This training shall be conducted based on a specific curriculum approved by the
council. Attendance at ethics training is mandatory.
2.07.030 - Government in the sunshine.
A. Emigration Canyon Metro Township is considered an open records and open
meetings government and all elected officials, officers and employees are directed to
observe, with exactness, all applicable provisions of state statue and Emigration
Canyon Metro Township ordinance regarding open records and open meetings
including, but not limited to, the Government Records Access and Management Act
(GRAMA), the Open Meetings Act (ACT) and Emigration Canyon Metro Township
ordinances and policies regarding those state statutes.
1. In the interests of maintaining openness and transparency in Emigration Canyon
Metro Township records, Emigration Canyon Metro Township officers and employees
are directed to give strong consideration to the application of an impartial balancing test
established by GRAMA when determining whether a record should be released.
Officers and employees shall seek to achieve GRAMA's express goals of openness
while also giving due consideration to individual privacy rights. Where justified, in

20

accordance with GRAMA, and all other considerations being equal, access should be
balanced in favor of openness and transparency.
2. a. As technology presents new developments in the means of communication,
including electronic messaging and the "social media," employees and officers are
directed to apply GRAMA standards of openness or confidentiality based on the content
of a record, regardless of the medium used.
b. Whereas many modern forums of electronic media, such as the so-called "social
media,” reduce or eliminate the Emigration Canyon Metro Township’s ability to retain,
store, retrieve and copy such communications, officers and employees are encouraged
to seek appropriate and cost effective solutions to make government records which are
transmitted in electronic media and are classified as public more available for public
review and distribution.
B. All meetings of any deliberative board, committee, or agency covered by the Open
Meetings Act, including boards or committees conducting quasi-judicial administrative
hearings, are directed to conduct all aspects of their decision making process, including
both the gathering of evidence and deliberations regarding a decision, in an open and
public meeting, with appropriate notice and minutes, unless the nature of the hearing
permits closure to the public under the exceptions provided in the Act.
1. Under rare circumstances, where a deliberative body has good cause to close only
its deliberation sessions, and is within the provisions and intent of Utah law, the body
may conduct only its deliberative process in private, in accordance with the standards
established by applicable decisions of the Utah Supreme Court.

21

2. All other provisions of state statute and the Open Meetings Act shall be otherwise
applicable to bodies and meetings as defined in the law and to those exceptions in
statute which permit closed meetings, under the circumstances and in accordance with
the provisions of Section 52-4-205 of the Act.
2.07.201 - Conflict of interest.
A. For the purposes of this section only, the following definitions control:
1. "Compensation" or "compensated" means anything of economic value, however
designated, which is paid, loaned, granted, given, donated, or transferred to any person
or business entity for or in consideration of personal services, materials, property, or
any other thing whatsoever.
2. "Employee" means a person who is employed on a full-time, part-time, or contract
basis by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township. “Employee” shall include elected and
appointed officers of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
3. "Financial interest" means, but may not be limited to, any employment by or
compensated representation as an agent of any individual, corporation, business entity,
organization, or committee. A financial interest also includes any beneficial ownership of
one percent or more of a corporation or other business entity.
4. "Governmental action” means any official action on the part of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township, including, but not limited to:
a. Any decision, determination, finding, ruling, or order, or discussions thereof:
b. Any grant, payment, award, license, contract, subcontract, transaction, decision,
sanction, or approval, or the denial thereof, or the failure to act in respect thereto; or

22

c. Any legislative, administrative, appointive, or discretionary act of any public servant or
volunteer public servant.
5. "Representative" means any authorized agent of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township. Representative shall include any appointed person, other than an employee,
serving on a special, regular, or full-time committee, commission, authority, agency, or
board of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township, who is not paid a salary or an hourly
wage by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township for his or her services thereon.
6. "Restricted conflict of interest" means any financial interest held by the employee or
representative of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township, or by members of an
employee's or representative's household, or those providing regular financial support to
the employee or representative.
7. "Unrestricted conflict" or "unrestricted conflict of interest" means any and all other
interests including political, family, fraternal, social, and other interests or associations
which may reasonably create the appearance or the actuality of a conflict of interest
between an employee's or representative's outside interest and his or her Emigration
Canyon Metro Township responsibilities. "Unrestricted conflict" or "unrestricted conflict
of interest" also means other conflicts as defined by state statute, and any campaign
contribution made to the officer, employee, or representative, or to any member of his or
her household, of more than five hundred dollars during the prior calendar year.
B. General prohibitions.

23

1. Emigration Canyon Metro Township employees are governed by the Municipal

Officer’s and Employee’s Ethics Act (10-3-1301, et seq.) regarding outside interests and

conflicts that are prohibited or that require disclosure.

2. Officers and Employees and representatives are prohibited from using non-public

information in a manner that could provide themselves or another a gain or benefit.

3. Officers and Employees and representatives shall not use or attempt to use their

position in a manner that could secure special privileges or exemptions for themselves

or others.

4. Employees and representatives are prohibited from engaging in any outside activity,

or financial investment which constitutes a restricted conflict of interest where such

conflict could impair their judgment regarding the faithful performance of Emigration

Canyon Metro Township responsibilities.

C. Restricted conflicts of interest.

1. Employees and representatives are required to fully and publicly disclose any

restricted conflict of interest and shall recuse themselves from, and have no

involvement in, any governmental action in which they have a restricted conflict of

interest.

2. If an employee or representative is not aware of the financial interest, he or she must

disclose the financial interest and recuse as soon as he or she learns of the financial

interest.

3. Any action, vote, contract, or other governmental action which has been undertaken

by an officer, employee, or representative who has a restricted conflict of interest shall
24

be terminable by the body that took the action, or by the Emigration Canyon Metro

Township officer with authority to void or terminate the action. That body or Emigration

Canyon Metro Township officer may also ratify any prior governmental action that was

taken in violation of this section.

D. Unrestricted conflicts of interest.

1. Employees and representatives must publicly disclose any and all unrestricted

conflicts of interest at any meeting, hearing, or deliberation where the employee or

representative is present and the unrestricted conflict of interest could impair the

judgment of the employee or representative.

2. Employees or representatives who have unrestricted conflicts are not required to

recuse themselves but may do so.

E. Disclosure.

1. Employees and representatives are required to comply with all legal requirements

setting a responsibility to disclose restricted and unrestricted conflicts of interests

between their public duties and private activities. In particular, officials and employees

are bound by the requirements of the Municipal Officer's and Employee’s Ethics Act

(10-3-1301, et seq.).

2. Oral or written disclosures must be made in accordance with state statute, other

sources of the law, and this section.

3. Officers and Employees are required to file written disclosures in accordance with

the provisions of state statute and Emigration Canyon Metro Township ordinance. All
25

written disclosures must be kept current and are filed both with the officer or employee's
immediate chain of command and with the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council.
F. Contractual representatives.
1. Individuals and business entities who contract to represent the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township interests shall disclose to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township the
names of other clients they represent and those clients' respective issues and interests
that are relevant to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township interests. Unless they
receive written permission from the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council, such
individuals or business entities are prohibited from representing other clients about the
same or substantially same issues and interests as covered by the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township representation.
2. Individuals and business entities who contract to represent the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township’s interests by lobbying the State Legislature or any other municipal,
county, state or federal office or agency are prohibited from engaging in any lobbying of
Emigration Canyon Metro Township officers, employees, agencies or offices, as defined
in Section 2.73.010 of this title.
2.07.202 - Emigration Canyon Metro Township endorsements.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
or an Emigration Canyon Metro Township official may encourage support from a public
or private individual or institution, whether in financial contributions or by other means,
on behalf of an organization or activity that benefits the community.
2.07.203 - Definitions.

26

The terms defined in this section shall have the following meaning:
"Gifts" means anything of value including a loan at a rate that is substantially less than a
prevalent commercial rate, compensation for goods or services exceeding fair market
value, goods or services provided for less than fair market value, gratuity,
entertainment, hospitality or forbearance, unless consideration of equal or greater value
is received.
“Honoraria" means the offering or acceptance of perquisite, gift or anything of value for
speaking, writing or participating in a meeting, convention, social event, meal or like
gathering.
"Purchasing official" means any officer or employee who recommends for final action,
prepares specifications, or approves or rejects any part of a specific procurement or
disposal of goods, services, or real property or any specific contract related to a
procurement of goods or services or disposal of property.
2.07.204 - Gifts.
Officers and employees of the Township shall not knowingly accept or solicit any gift for
themselves, family members or organizations of the officer or employee or others,
except as permitted in Section 2.07.207.
2.07.205 - Gifts and the procurement process. .
A. Without exception, receipt or solicitation of any gift or a request for employment by a
purchasing official from any person including a vendor of goods, seller or buyer of real
property, or service provider is illegal and punishable as provided by statute.

27

B. It is unlawful and punishable as provided by statute for any payment, gift or offer of
employment to be offered or made by any person to a public officer or employee or
contractor of the Township to obtain a specific procurement, disposal, contract or
subcontract.
C. Contracts entered into resulting from a violation of this section are voidable and any
payments made on these contracts shall be recoverable to the Township.
2.07.206 - Honoraria.
Officers and employees of the Township shall not accept honoraria in regard to
activities related to their Township duties or purpose except as provided in Section
2.07.207.
2.07.207 - Exceptions.
The following are exceptions to the gifts and honoraria requirements of this chapter
except as provided in Section 2.07.205:
A. The gift is a political contribution authorized by law and reported as part of the
campaign disclosure requirements of the Township or any other governmental entity;
B. Token items of nominal value, including but not limited to, educational materials, t-
shirts, coffee mugs, parking validations or other commemorative or similar souvenir
items;
C. Snacks, beverages or educational or informational materials provided at meetings or
other functions;
D. Transportation to and attendance at conventions, seminars, or events of a primarily
educational nature, including meals and entertainment that are part of the required

28

registration, and any associated educational or informational materials directly related to
the official duties of the officer or employee;
E. Gifts not related to the activities of the officer and employee with the Township:
F. Awards publicly made for public service;
G. Food or a beverage given at a widely attended reception, meal, or meeting by an
organization before whom the recipient appears to represent the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township, make a speech, answer questions or participate in part of a program;
H. Attendance at political events that are primarily sponsored by a political party or
political candidate;
|. Flowers, plants, balloons or similar tokens which are given to express condolences,
congratulations, or sympathy for ill health, or to commemorate holiday or special
occasions;
J. Township sponsored programs activities or work;
K. Gifts for the Township that become the property of the Township;
L. Gifts to Township officers, employees or agencies from other Township officers,
employees or agencies;
M. Death transfers including bequests and inheritances; and
N. Gifts to blind trusts related to legal defense funds for imminent or pending litigation
against officers or employees (related to their official duties).
2.07.208 - Restrictions on post-Township employment. (RESERVED)
2.07.209 - Nepotism.

29

A. No Township officer or employee shall employ, appoint or attempt to influence the
appointment or hiring of a relative to any Township position or employment paid out of
Township funds, except for temporary or seasonal employment or positions.
Brno Township officer or employee shall directly or indirectly supervise a relative in any
Township position or employment paid out of Township funds.
Cano officer or employee may be involved in any way in an evaluation of a relative for
purposes of pay, benefits, promotion, or discipline.
D. In situations where a merit employee who is a relative of a superior occupies an
appointment that occurred before the officer assumed his or her supervisory position or
occurred before the effective date of this ordinance, steps shall be taken to establish
alternative lines of supervision and evaluation and to remove anything that may indicate
or appear to indicate nepotistic behavior.
E. In this section, "relative" means parent, spouse, child, sibling, uncle, aunt, nephew,
niece, first cousin, parent-in-law, child-in-law, sibling-in-law, or household member.
2.07.401 - Political activities of employees. (Reserved)
2.07.402 - Prohibitions on political use of Township resources.
No officer or employee shall use any property or resources of the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township, including time, other Township employees, equipment, material,
Township Seal, buildings or facilities in connection with any political activity, except in
accordance with established Township policy regarding scheduling and use of public
meeting rooms.

30

Chapter 2.08 - ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
Sections:
2.08.030 - Ordinance requirements.
2.08.040 - Policies and procedures defined.
2.08.050 - Council initiated policies and procedures.
2.08.080 - Policies and procedures—Adoption.
2.08.090 - Policies and procedures—Recordkeeping and distribution.
2.08.100 - Conflict between policies and state statutes.
2.08.110 - Discrimination prohibited.
2.08.030 - Ordinance requirements.
A. The function of proposing, considering, reviewing, approving and enacting
ordinances is a legislative process which lies solely within the power, authority and
discretion of the council pursuant to law. The council may, at its discretion, provide for
the limited delegation of certain powers and activities to other committees, persons or
entities to assist in the preparation of proposed Emigration Canyon Metro Township
ordinances.
1. Upon review, approval and adoption by the council, the proposed ordinance shall
become legally effective upon the date indicated in the ordinance and being signed by
the Mayor, attested by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township recorder, and posted
or published as required by State statute. .
B. Ordinances which in the opinion of the council are necessary for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health or safety of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township
and the inhabitants thereof may, if so provided in the ordinance, take effect
immediately upon publication or posting as required is State statute.

31

2.08.040 - Policies and procedures defined.
As used in this code, "Emigration Canyon Metro Township policy and procedure"
means a written statement formally adopted by the council providing for the
implementation of council's ordinances, powers and duties and Emigration Canyon
Metro Township governance and administration.
2.08.050 - Council initiated policies and procedures.
Whenever a policy or procedure is suggested by a majority of the council, the Mayor
shall refer the matter for adoption in accordance with Section 2.04.160.
2.08.080 - Policies and procedures—Adoption.
All policies and procedures adopted by the council must bear the signatures of the
Mayor and recorder.
2.08.090 - Policies and procedures—Recordkeeping and distribution.
It shall be the responsibility of the council to keep a current record of all council-
approved policies and procedures.
2.08.100 - Conflict between policies and state statutes.
Whenever a policy and procedure is in conflict with a state statute or an ordinance of
the Emigration Canyon Metro Township, the statute supersedes the ordinance and the
policy and procedure. An ordinance supersedes a policy and procedure.
2.08.110 - Discrimination prohibited.

32

Discrimination in Emigration Canyon Metro Township government services based on
age, marital status, color, disability, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, race or religion is prohibited. Individuals shall be assured of equal access,
opportunity and protection in all areas of Emigration Canyon Metro Township
government services. This section is not intended to expand the services of
Emigration Canyon Metro Township government beyond those required by state or
federal law.
Chapter 2.09 - TOWNSHIP LITIGATION
Sections:
2.09.010 — Litigation—Control and direction.
2.09.010 - Litigation—Control! and direction.
Any litigation involving or against the Emigration Canyon Metro Township is governed
by the provisions of state statute and applicable case law precedents.
Chapter 2.10 - MUTUAL COMMITMENT REGISTRIES (RESERVED)

33

Chapter 2.12 - EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP OFFICERS AND
EMPLOYEES
Sections:
2.12.050 - Bonds.
2.12.080 - Salaries.
2.12.090 - Recordkeeping.
2.12.110 - Termination of office.
2.12.120 - Interfering with officers or employees prohibited.
2.12.130 - Impersonation of officers or employees prohibited.
2.12.050 - Bonds.
A. Every Emigration Canyon Metro Township council member shall, before entering
upon the discharge of his respective office, execute, as required by law, official bonds
running to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township. The bonds are to be in the amount
of at least $500 for the Mayor r and in the amount of $500 for other council members
and for the purpose of conditioning the faithful performance of all duties imposed by
law.
2.12.080 - Salaries.
All Emigration Canyon Metro Township council members and other Emigration
Canyon Metro Township employees shall receive such annual salaries as are fixed by
the council.
2.12.090 - Recordkeeping.
All records, kept by any council member_or employee of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township shail be open to inspection by any member of the council at all reasonable
times and upon reasonable notice.

34

2.12.110 - Termination of office.

Every council member of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township, upon the expiration

of his term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his successor all property, books

and records that may be the property of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township; and

if no successor has been appointed within one week after the termination of office,

such property shall be delivered to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township recorder.

2.12.120 - Interfering with officers or employees prohibited.

It is unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the Emigration

Canyon Metro Township while the officer or employee is engaged in the duties of

office or employment.

2.12.130 - Impersonation of officers or employees prohibited.

It is unlawful for any person to impersonate any Emigration Canyon Metro Township

officer or employee with intent to deceive another. Violation of this section is a Class B

misdemeanor.

Chapter 2.24 - ESTABLISHING FEES

Sections:

2.24.060 - Fee requirements and limitations.

2.24.070 - Fee establishment process.

2.24.080 - Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council powers—Fees.

2.24.060 - Fee requirements and limitations.

The Emigration Canyon Metro Township may impose fees for providing government

services in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance and as may be required or
35

permitted by law. Fees shall be calculated and imposed in an amount that will
reimburse the Emigration Canyon Metro Township for its expenses in enforcing
regulations or providing services or benefits and may not be imposed in an amount
which significantly exceeds those costs.
2.24.070 - Fee establishment process.
A. A fee shall be initiated by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council.
B. In establishing the amount of a fee, costs and elements may be considered,
including but not limited to:
1. Emigration Canyon Metro Township and County employee expenses, including full
compensation costs of all employees normally required to provide the services;
2. All direct costs:
a. For internal division costs, in accordance with accepted accounting standards; and
b. For Emigration Canyon Metro Township indirect costs, in amounts established by
the county auditor's office;
3. Any expenditure the Emigration Canyon Metro Township is required to make to
other government entities, private contractors or other third parties;
4. Reserves for liability, asset replacement, and capital improvements; and
5. Costs and materials of other direct operational expenses.
C. Fees shall be finally determined, approved and adopted by the Emigration Canyon
Metro Township council.

36

D. Fees shall be posted and available to the public either electronically or by physical
posting at the Emigration Canyon Metro Township offices or work place.
E. Fees may be amended at times other than during budget approval by submitting a
letter requesting a fee amendment to the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council
for its review and approval.
2.24.080 - Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council powers—Fees.
A. The council shall review and approve a schedule of all fees imposed by the
Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
B. The council may waive or adjust fees, in accordance with the following standards
and procedures:
1. A fee may be waived or adjusted by the council unless that fee is specifically
established by ordinance or by state statute or regulation. Fees established by
ordinance may only be waived by the council and fees established by state law may
only be waived in accordance with state law.
2. Waiver shall be upon good cause shown and in the public interest. Any waiver shall
be in writing.
3. Fees such as late fees or service charges may also be waived, based on the
standards and processes established in this ordinance.
Chapter 2.39 - VOLUNTEER SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD (RESERVED)
Chapter 2.48 - CRITERIA AND PROCESSES FOR
THE NAMING OF PUBLIC PLACES AND FACILITIES (RESERVED)

37

Chapter 2.49 - STREET ADDRESSING AND PROPERTY IDENTIFICATION
(RESERVED)
Chapter 2.70 - QUASI-JUDICIAL FUNCTIONS STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
Sections:
2.70.010 - Purpose.
2.70.020 - Definitions.
2.70.030 - Conflict of interest.
2.70.040 - Gifts and favors.
2.70.050 - Ex-parte communication.
2.70.060 - Other provisions applicable.
2.70.010 - Purpose.
The Emigration Canyon Metro Township council recognizes the importance of
guaranteeing both the reality and perception that all individuals appearing before
quasi-judicial officials or bodies in the Emigration Canyon Metro Township are
afforded a full, fair and impartial hearing on the merits. The council finds it in the best
interests of the citizens of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township to provide uniform
standards of conduct for all members of quasi-judicial bodies. To that end, the council
hereby provides uniform standards of conduct for individuals performing quasi-judicial
functions in the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.
2.70.020 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively described to them below:
A "conflict of interest" exists when:

38

A. A quasi-judicial official has a direct or indirect financial interest which will be or is
reasonably likely to be affected by the outcome of the matter currently pending before
the official; or Resolution of the matter before the official will or is reasonably likely to
create a material personal gain or provide a gain or advantage to relatives, friends,
agents, business associates, or to groups and associations which hold some share of
the official's loyalty. Membership in a group or association alone shall not be
considered a conflict of interest with respect to any matter affecting such group or
association unless a reasonable and informed person would conclude that such
membership in itself would prevent an objective quasi-judicial consideration of the
matter.
“Ex-parte contact or communication" means contact by one side only of a matter
before an individual, board or council when said individual, board or council is acting in
a quasi-judicial capacity and the contact is outside of the hearing or official
proceedings in the matter.
"Interested party” in a quasi-judicial proceeding means any applicant, party,
representative or agent of an applicant or party, any person or entity whose may claim
to be adversely affected by the resolution of a matter or any issue of fact or law related
to a matter, and any person or entity who claims a substantial property interest which
could be adversely affected by the resolution of a matter or an issue of fact or law
related to a matter.
"Legislative capacity" means activity by a board or council when involved with the
framing and enactment of ordinances and policies for the Township Included without
limitation in such category is the adoption of or amendment to the code of ordinances,
39

policies and procedures or administrative rules of the Emigration Canyon Metro
Township. "Quasi-judicial capacity" means the role of an individual, board, or council
acting to investigate facts and draw conclusions therefrom as a basis for its official
actions and the exercise of discretion of a judicial nature is a matter which is currently
before the individual, board or council, or which would come under the individual's,
board's or council's jurisdiction pursuant to an appeal of an administrative
determination, including the Emigration Canyon Metro Township council. In
determining whether the individual or entity is quasi-judicial in nature, the nature of the
activity engaged in shall control over the title of the individual or entity or the other
duties assigned to or otherwise engaged in by the individual or entity.
2.70.030 - Conflict of interest.
A. Any official acting in a quasi-judicial capacity with or reasonably likely to have a
conflict of interest with regard to an applicant or its agent who has a matter before the
official, must declare his or her conflict of interest and the nature of the interest giving
rise to the conflict publicly prior to discussion of the matter and enter the same upon
the record of the proceeding. The official must abstain from deliberating or voting on
the matter and may not discuss the matter either publicly or privately with any other
official participating in the proceeding. The vote of an official experiencing a conflict of
interest who fails to disqualify himself shall be disallowed.
B. A conflict of interest may exist under this section although an official may not
believe that an actual conflict exists. Therefore, any official who has a question as to
whether a conflict of interest exists under this section with respect to his or her
participation or the participation of another official participating in the proceeding

40
