                  EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH

oRDINANcE       No.   \7- ~ -o\                                     /rfr1   I+     2017

A ORDINANCE CREATING A TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION AND
ESTABLISHING THE NUMBER OF ITS MEMBERS, TERMS OF OFFICE, AND
AUTHORITY

                                           RECITALS
        A.     Utah State Code section 10-2a-414 provides that when a metro township is
incorporated that each county ordinance that is in effect on the day that metro township is
incorporated will remain in effect as a metro township ordinance until the metro township
council amends or repeals the ordinance.

        B.     Utah State Code section 10-3a-504(3) provides that in a metro township that is in
a municipal service district that the township council shall adopt by ordinance provision
regulating the manner in which a subdivision is approved, disapproved, or otherwise regulated.

        C.      Utah State Code section 10-3c-203(4) provides that a metro township may
establish a planning commission and appeal authority as provided for in the Municipal Land Use
Development and Management Act.

        D.       The Municipal Land Use Development and Management Act provided that a Utah
municipality, including a metro township, may adopt general plans and land use regulation only
after establishing a planning commission to provide recommendations to the township council


                                         ORDINANCE

      NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:

I. The following shall be adopted as the governing ordinance and provisions for the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission:

                                 PLANNING COMMISSION

       Planning Commission established and authority.
              Pursuant to Utah Code 10-3c-203(4) and Utah Code 10-9a-301 there is
       hereby established a Emigration Canyon Metro Township Planning Commission
       which shall have the authority as set forth in Utah Code 10-9a-301; this
       ordinance; and the ordinances of Salt Lake County that pursuant to Utah Code 10-
       2a-414(3) remain in effect in the Township until amended or repealed by the
       Township Council.
Appointment-Term.
     The Planning Commission for the Township shall consist of seven (7)
members and up to ·two (2) alternate members appointed by the Chair of the
Township Council with the advice and consent of the Council. Members shall
serve four-year terms or longer until successors are appointed. Upon initial
appointment of the members of the first Planning Commission for the Township,
the Council shall assign each new member with an initial term of office of one to
four years. Terms shall commence on March 1st of each year. Terms of at least
one member, and not more than two, shall expire each year. In the event a term of
a member shall expire before a successor is appointed, the member shall continue
to serve until a successor is appointed. The members and alternate members of the
Planning Commission shall be registered voters residing in the Township
 Vacancy-Removal.
     Any vacancy occurring on the Planning Commission by reason of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled by the Chair of the
Township Council with the advice and consent of the Council for the unexpired
term of such member. The Chair of the Township Council may remove a member
of the Planning Commission for cause after filing written charges against the
member. The member shall be provided with a hearing before the Township
Council on the charges if requested.
 Organization-Procedures.
     The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson from its members who
shall serve a one-year term. The Planning Commission may create and fill any
other necessary offices it deems necessary and may adopt policies and procedures
for the conduct of its meetings, the processing of applications, and for any other
purpose the Planning Commission considers necessary for its proper function.
The Planning Commission shall comply with the provisions of the Utah Open and
Public Meetings Act.
Powers and duties.
      The Planning Commission shall:
A.   Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general
     plan to the Township Council;
B.   Recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning
     ordinances and maps to the Township Council;
C.   Recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances
     to the Township Council;
D.   Recommend approval or denial of subdivision applications to the
     Township Council;
E.   Approve or deny conditional use permits;
F.   Advise the Township Council on matters that the Council directs;
G.   Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the
     Township Council.
     .,

\
 .
                  Policies and Procedures
                  The Township Council, in conjunction with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
                  Services District, shall:
                  A.       adopt such policies and procedures as it deems necessary to provide for:
                  B.      The location , scheduling, and conduct of Township Planning Commission
                          meetings;
                  C.      The processing of applications;
                  D.      The provision of Planning support staff;
                  E.      The funding of necessary and reasonable expenses of the Township
                          Planning Commission; and
                  F.      For any other purposes considered necessary for the functioning of the
                          Township Planning Commission.


          II. This ordinance shall take effect upon publication and posting as required in Utah Code 10-3-
          711.

          III. The Salt Lake County Clerk acting for the Township and municipal recorder/clerk pursuant
          to Utah Code 10-3c-201(1)(a)(ii) is hereby authorized to provide appropriate title, chapter , part ,
          and section numbers for the provision of this ordinance and pursuant to Utah Code 10-3-713
          shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, this ordinance, along with all
          ordinances passed by the Emigration Canyon Metro Township.

          IV. The recorder shall give this ordinance a number, if the Township Council has not already so
          done.

          V. Immediately following this ordinance, the recorder shall make or cause to be made a
          certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or posting , as required.

                 APPRO VE D AND ADOPT ED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township , Salt Lake
          County, Utah, this_:l:_ day of hfrl \ , 2017.

                                                           (,,.o-CHAIRPERSON
                                                              ~-                       l--for
                                                                                           11k--P
                                                                                              _~
          ATTEST:                                                ~k--R:ai-le    J-e h h i ~ ~ l~~-o s·
          ~Lv
                                                          Voting :
                                                          Council Member Raile       ~
                                                          Council Member Smola       frlt,
                                                          Council Member Hawkes      ~
                                                          Council Member Brems       ~
                                                          Council Member Christensen h""te-
