EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
RESOLUTION No. \4~ 02-0) ferruay ZB 2019
| A RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL OF EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
TOWNSHIP ADOPTING RULES OF PROCEDURE TO GOVERN THE CONDUCT OF
ITS MEETINGS.
RECITALS

A. Utah Code 10-3-606 requires all municipal councils to adopt rules of meeting
procedure and conduct.

B. The Metro Township council has previously adopted Roberts Rules of Order to
govern its procedures and now wishes to adopt a less formal set of meeting rules that represents
the procedures the council has customarily followed.

RESOLUTION

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED, by the Council of the Emigration
Canyon Metro Township:

1. The attached Exhibit A is hereby adopted as the meeting rules of procedure for the
meetings of the Emigration Canyon Metro Township Council

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Salt Lake
County, Utah, this 2® day of Felruary 2019.

CHAIRPERSO

Sa + a Ae

ATTEST: Joe Smolka
Ly ee eS

Voting:
Council Member Paine bA&
Council Member Smolka  Ay®
Council Member Hawkes A-fe
Council Member Brems hye
Council Member Bowen hae

EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
RULES OF PROCEDURE and ORDER

Pursuant to Utah Code 10-3-606 Emigration Canyon Metro Township hereby adopts the
following rules of order and procedure to govern the meetings of the Council.
RULE NO. 1.

Emigration Canyon Metro Township shall comply with the all required procedures
contained in Utah Code including the following Sections:

10-3-502. Regular and special council meetings.

(1) The council of each municipality shall:

(a) by ordinance prescribe the time and place for holding its regular meeting, subject
to Subsection (1)(b); and

(b) hold a regular meeting at least once each month.

(2) (a) The mayor of a municipality or two council members may order the convening
of a special meeting of the council.

(b) Each order convening a special meeting of the council shall:

(i) be entered in the minutes of the council; and ~

(11) provide at least three hours’ notice of the special meeting.

(c) The municipal recorder or clerk shall serve notice of the special meeting on each
council member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or by
leaving it at the member's usual place of abode.

(d) The personal appearance by a council member at a special meeting of the council
constitutes a waiver of the notice required under Subsection (2)(c).

10-3-504. Quorum defined.

The number of council members necessary to constitute a quorum is:

(1) in a municipality with a seven-member council, four;

(2) in a municipality with a five-member council, three; and

(3) in a municipality operating under a six-member council form of government, three,
excluding the mayor.

10-3-505. Compelling attendance at meetings of legislative body.

The legislative body of a municipality may compel the attendance of its own members
at its meetings and provide penalties it considers necessary for the failure to comply with
an exercise of the authority to compel attendance.

10-3-506. How the vote is taken.
A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all ordinances, resolutions, and any

action which would create a liability against the municipality and in any other case at the

request of any member of the governing body by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be

recorded. Every resolution or ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken.
10-3-507. Minimum vote required.

(1) The minimum number of yes votes required to pass any ordinance or resolution, or
to take any action by the council, unless otherwise prescribed by law, is a majority of the
voting members of the council, without considering any vacancy in the council.

(2) (a) Any ordinance, resolution, or motion of the council having fewer favorable
votes than required in this section is defeated and invalid.

(b) Notwithstanding Subsection (2)(a), a council meeting may be adjourned to a
specific time by a majority vote of the council even though the majority vote is less than
that required in this section.

(3) A majority of the council members, regardless of number, may fill any vacancy in
the council as provided under Section 20A-1-510.

10-3-508. Reconsideration.

Any action taken by the governing body may not be reconsidered or rescinded at any
special meeting unless the number of members of the governing body present at the
special meeting is equal to or greater than the number of members present at the meeting
when the action was approved.

10-3-601. Business of governing body conducted only in open meeting.

All meetings of the governing body of each municipality shall be held in compliance

| with the provisions of Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
10-3-607. Rules of conduct for members of the governing body.

The governing body of each municipality may fine or expel any member for

disorderly conduct on a two-thirds vote of the members of the governing body.
10-3-608. Rules of conduct for the public.

The governing body on a two-thirds vote may expel any person who is disorderly
during the meeting of the governing body. This section or any action taken by the
governing body pursuant hereto does not preclude prosecution under any other provision
of law.

RULE NO. 2.
The agenda for the meeting will be the guide to the meeting. Items may only be placed
on the agenda by either the mayor or any two council members. While matters not on the agenda

may at times come up for discussion, no final action can be taken on any matter not on the
agenda.
RULE NO. 3

The mayor shall open and introduce an item on the agenda in order, unless the mayor
feels like there is a good reason to go out of order. If the item is one that requires discussion the
council members can consider the item in a polite, civil, free-for- all type exchange of ideas for
as long as they feel necessary. The mayor may or may not, at his or her discretion, allow
members of the public or staff to participate in the discussion. When the mayor thinks the
discussion has gone on long enough, and the item is one that requires a decision of the council,
the mayor can ask for vote on the matter.

Any council-member who has had enough of the discussion, can at any time also ask the
mayor to either move on to the next item or call for a vote on the item. If a majority of the others
on the council agree, the mayor shall call for a vote or move on to the next item as appropriate.
No formal motions or seconds are required or necessary.

RULE NO. 4.

The mayor and council members shall treat each with respect and act at all times during
the meeting and in a civil and courteous manner to each other and the public.

RULE NO. 5. The mayor and council members shall comply with the Utah Municipal Officers
and Employees Ethics Act as found in Utah Code 10-3-1301 et seq.

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR MUNICIPAL COUNCIL AND MAYOR INCLUDES:

e Remarks should apply to the question under debate.

e Shall avoid references to personalities, and refrain from questioning motives of other
members or staff personnel.

e Demonstrate courtesy and shall not disrupt proceedings.

e Shall not use their positions to secure privileges or personal gains and shall avoid
situations which could cause anyone to believe that they may have brought bias or
partiality to a question before the Municipal Council.

e Shall be dedicated to the principles of representative democracy by recognizing that the
chief function of local government is to serve the best interests of the public at large
while respecting individual rights.

e Shall be dedicated to the effective use of the Municipality’s available resources.

e Shall refrain from any activity that would hinder their ability to be objective and
impartial.

¢ Municipal business shall be discussed in open, well-publicized meetings, except in rare
situations in which Executive Sessions are authorized.

RESIDENTS’ RIGHT TO BE HEARD:

It is recognized that residents may from time to time believe it is necessary to speak to
Municipal Council on matters of concern. Accordingly, the Municipal Council expects any
person presenting to the municipal council to speak in a civil manner, with due respect for the
decorum of the meeting, and with due respect for all persons attending.

¢ No member of the public shall be heard until recognized by the Mayor.

e Public comments will only be heard during the Public Comment portion of the meeting
unless the issue is a Public Hearing or a member of the public is asked to speak on a
matter by the mayor.

e Speakers must state their name and address for the record.

e Any resident requesting to speak shall limit himself or herself to matters of fact regarding
the issue of concern.

e Comments should be limited to three (3) minutes unless prior approval by the Mayor.

¢ Ifa representative is elected to speak for a group, the Mayor may approve an increased
time allotment.

¢ Personal attacks made publicly toward any person or Municipal employee are not
allowed. Speakers are encouraged to bring their complaints regarding employee
performance through the supervisory chain of command in accordance with the
Municipality’s Personnel Policies.

e Any member of the public interrupting Municipal Council proceedings, approaching the
dais without permission, otherwise creating a disturbance, or failing to abide by these
rules of procedure in addressing Municipal Council, shall be deemed to have disrupted a
public meeting and, at the direction of the Mayor, shall be removed from Council
chambers by Police Department personnel or other agent designated by Municipal
Council.
