> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-10-13
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2020 
 
 
20 - 1 
 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday, October 13, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to the Chair’s determination 
and Salt Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 In Attendance: Council Members Chris Wharton, James Rogers, Amy 
Fowler, Analia Valdemoros, Daniel Dugan, and Darin Mano. 
 Absent: Councilmember Andrew Johnston. 
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine 
Lewis, City Attorney; Lisa Shaffer, Mayor’s Chief Administrative 
Officer; David Litvack, Mayor’s Senior Advisor; Lorna Vogt, Public 
Services Director; Mike Brown, Police Chief; Mary Beth Thompson, 
Chief Financial Officer; Benjamin Luedtke, Council Policy Analyst; 
Lehua Weaver, Council Associate Deputy Director; Amanda Lau, 
Council Staff Assistant; Vicki Bennett, Sustainability Environment 
Director; Lani Eggertsen-Goff, Housing and Neighborhood 
Development Director; Bill Wyatt, Airport Director; Brian Butler, 
Airport Finance/Accounting Director; Tony Milner, Housing and 
Neighborhood Development Policy/Program Manager; Jennifer 
Schumann, Housing and Neighborhood Development Deputy Director; 
Blake Thomas, Community and Neighborhoods; Sam Owen, Council 
Policy Analyst; Jonathan Larsen, Transportation Director; and 
Scott Crandall, Deputy City Recorder. 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:04 p.m. 2:04:07 PM 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1. 2:05:16 PM Informational: Updates Relating to Mayor’s Proclamations Declaring Local Emergencies for COVID-19, March Earthquake, and Windstorm 
The Council will receive an update from the Administration 
about the Mayor’s emergency declarations relating to COVID-19 
(coronavirus), the March 18th earthquake in the Salt Lake Valley, 
and the September 8th windstorm. As part of the update, the Council 
may discuss public health and other public safety, policy and 
budget issues stemming from the emergency declarations. The 
Council may also receive information or updates from organizations 
or experts related to the emergency responses and coordination, 
including but not limited to earthquake damage to the City, the

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2020 
 
 
20 - 2 
 
functioning of the Emergency Operations Center (EOC), City 
response and aid, and the status of City buildings. 
 Erin Mendenhall, Rachel Otto, Lisa Shaffer and Lorna Vogt 
briefed the Council. Comments included increasing the City’s 
restriction level to orange, total re-work of the color system 
(for transmission levels), currently operating in the moderate 
restriction level, required mask mandate (in most places in the 
state), transitioning Streets crews away from debris removal (back 
to normal duties), release of the Utah National Guard, coordinating 
with the State/County to assist Public Utilities with clearing 
trees from streams (to prevent flooding problems), sidewalk 
repairs due to stumps in the right-of-way/, information submitted 
to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) (no response yet), 
and no significant injuries/accidents reported. 
 Lisa Shaffer informed the Council they would be briefed about 
Budget Amendment No. 3 which included preliminary damage 
assessment numbers totaling almost $6 million related to the 
windstorm (based on contractor estimates). She explained this was 
not the final tally and reminded the Council of her last update 
with estimated costs of around $11 million. 
 
Discussion was held regarding the parking enforcement 
moratorium (emergency proclamations effecting parking). 
 
Council Members requested the following item from Staff: 
• Provide total numbers on tonnage of tree/debris removal. 
 #2. 2:15:45 PM Informational: Updates on Relieving the Condition of People Experiencing Homelessness 
The Council will hear updates and discuss issues pertaining 
to relieving the condition of people experiencing homelessness in 
neighborhoods throughout Salt Lake City. 
 Mayor Mendenhall, Rachel Otto, and Lisa Shaffer briefed the 
Council regarding week two of phase II of the Community Commitment 
Program focused on the 700 South area (resource center) including 
outreach (3 weeks of daily efforts) and determining needed/wanted 
services. She stated the Saint Vincent DePaul overflow facility 
was set to open Wednesday night. 
 
 Discussion was held regarding the Health Department 
beginning to abate encampment activity on 700 South (October 23,

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2020 
 
 
20 - 3 
 
2020) and adequate notice being provided to the encampments in 
advance of abatement activities. 
 #3. 2:26:22 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and Policing 
The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts on 
various projects City staff are working on related to racial equity 
and policing in the City. The conversation may include issues of 
community concern about race, equity, and justice in relation to 
law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and ordinances. 
Discussion may include: 
• An update or report on the newly created Commission on Racial 
Equity in Policing; and 
• Other project updates or discussion. 
 Councilmember Wharton stated discussion of this item would be 
combined with Item 5 (Budget Amendment No. 3). 
 #4. 2:27:30 PM Ordinance: Police Officer Body-worn Cameras 
The Council will discuss options for a new ordinance for the 
Police Department’s use of body-worn cameras. The Police 
Department has policies for body-worn camera use and there have 
been executive orders relating to footage release. Currently, 
however, there is not a City ordinance that standardizes the policy 
direction. This is part of a multifaceted approach the City is 
taking to examine internal systems and identify paths toward better 
accountability and equity. View Attachment Jennifer Bruno, Cindy Gust-Jenson, Katherine Lewis, Mayor Mendenhall, and Mike Brown briefed the Council with attachments. 
Comments included constituent feedback (public interest to 
maintain/expand body-worn camera use), updating the ordinance to 
reflect the statute of limitations retention schedule (4 years), 
outline of the draft ordinance (define officer involved critical 
incidents (including K-9), keeping record of instances when a body-
worn camera was deactivated (how the record would be 
audited/provided to elected officials), adding a placeholder for 
further discussion/understanding of what “valid law enforcement 
purposes” meant, and monthly random audits to ensure officers were 
complying with State law/City code/Police Department policy. 
 
Discussion was held regarding reasons why an officer would 
turn off a body-worn camera, potential of additional staff to 
handle auditing functions, number of audits being considered (five

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2020 
 
 
20 - 4 
 
per month), retention/data storage options/costs, whether the 
Civilian Review Board Administrator (with current work load) was 
the appropriate person to perform audits, and timeline to release 
footage of body-worn cameras to the Council (two versus five 
business days). 
 Unanimous Straw Poll: Support to have the ordinance state 
that body-worn camera footage should be provided as soon as 
practicable but within no more than five business days to the 
Council. All Council Members present were in favor; Councilmember 
Valdemoros and Johnston were absent for the vote. 
 
 Council Members requested the following items from Staff: 
• Provide the cons of triggering an Officer Involved Critical 
Incident (OICI), including K-9 bites. 
• Consider more staff to perform work being done by the Civil 
Service Commission and pricing of the auditing functions (who 
reviews/how provided). 
 #5. 3:34:25 PM Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 3 for Fiscal Year 2020-2021 
The Council will receive a briefing about an ordinance that 
would amend the final budget of Salt Lake City, including the 
employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 2020-21. Budget 
amendments happen several times each year to reflect adjustments 
to the City’s budgets, including proposed project additions and 
modifications. The proposed amendment includes funding for Airport 
Projects, Racial Equity in Policing Commission operating costs and 
windstorm expenses, among other items. View Attachment Benjamin Luedtke, Mary Beth Thompson, Bill Wyatt, Brian Butler, Lorna Vogt, David Litvack, and Jennifer Bruno briefed the 
Council with attachments. Comments included revenues update 
(projected deficits), Fund Balance update, expenses in response to 
the September 8, 2020 windstorm (working with Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (FEMA)/Insurance for reimbursement), General 
Fund update, and review of Administrative/Council added/requested 
budget items. 
 
Discussion was held regarding the use of Coronavirus Aid, 
Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act Funding (could not be 
used to off-set revenues), anticipated/predicted deficits, excess 
of Fund Balance, projected/actual revenues, Sales and Use Tax 
revenue (line items), FEMA reimbursement (18-24 months), use of

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2020 
 
 
20 - 5 
 
Police Impact Fees, Fire/Parks Impact Fees proposed/eligible 
expenses/spending, Item A-1 Airport Hardstand: examples of 
additional scopes of work that would benefit from the requested 
larger budget adjustment, how Airport passenger comfort would be 
addressed (moving from a bus to the plane during inclement 
weather), Item A-2 Windstorm Damage Cost Estimates: explanation of 
contracting an Archeologist, expenses for plot damages at the 
Cemetery, responsibility of concrete repairs damaged from fallen 
tree stumps (in parking strips), plot owners covering costs of 
damaged headstones, Item A-3 Racial Equity in Policing Commission: 
ongoing versus onetime costs of additional City employees to 
address the continual workload of the Racial Equity in Policing 
Commission, Racial Equity in Policing Committee Facilitator 
activities, Commission Members stipend determination/ potential of 
increase, Committee recommendation procedures, and potential of 
funding through the Police Department (rather than the General 
Fund). 
 
Council Members requested the following item from Staff: 
• Provide actual revenues through the end of September. 
 #6. 4:35:21 PM Tentative Break 
 #7. 4:53:36 PM Resolution: Update to the City’s 2020-24 Consolidated Plan Guiding Use of U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Securities (CARES) Act Funds 
The Council will receive a briefing about updating the City’s 
2020-24 Consolidated Plan as required by the U.S. Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The City expects to receive 
approx. $7.1 million in HUD CARES Act funding and must amend the 
Consolidated Plan and associated 2020-21 Annual Action Plan to 
utilize those funds. The Consolidated Plan details the City’s goals 
and objectives to build healthy and sustainable communities 
through four federal grants: Community Development Block Grants 
(CDBG), Emergency Solutions Grants (ESG), Home Investment 
Partnerships, and Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 
(HOPWA). View Attachment 
 Benjamin Luedtke, Lani Eggertsen-Goff, Tony Milner, Jennifer Schumann, and Blake Thomas briefed the Council with attachments. 
Comments included Budget Amendment No. 4 being crucial to the 
implementation of the CARES HUD-CV funding, CARES HUD-CV 
funding/process, and timelines/deadlines.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2020 
 
 
20 - 6 
 
Discussion was held regarding clarification on why Housing 
Stability was not implicated, process of targeting Small Business 
Grants, Emergency Solutions Grant (ESG-CV) funding use timeline, 
funding categories meeting the needs the Council receives feedback 
on from the community, and funding determination (what/when). 
 
Council Members requested the following item from Staff: 
• Provide quarterly reports of funding recipients for 
information purposes and to keep the community informed that 
funds were being used properly. 
 #8. 5:42:00 PM Ordinance: Dockless Shared Mobility Devices (Electric Scooters) Follow-up 
The Council will receive a follow-up briefing about a proposed 
ordinance that would regulate the use of electric scooters and 
other dockless, shared mobility devices in the City. The Council 
would also consider amending the Consolidated Fee Schedule as part 
of the dockless shared mobility device ordinance. Currently, 
dockless scooter companies operate under temporary operating 
agreements until an ordinance is passed. The latest version of a 
draft ordinance was sent to the Council in March 2020. The updated 
ordinance incorporates some feedback and concerns including 
additional requirements for safety features, insurance requirement 
changes, and language to better differentiate between scooters and 
devices - motorized or otherwise – used by individuals with reduced 
or specialized mobility, among other changes. View Attachment 
 Sam Owen, Blake Thomas, and Jonathan Larsen briefed the 
Council with attachments. Comments included cost justification 
analysis, financial components, policy consideration, fee 
structure, and request for proposal (RFP) selection process. 
 
Council Members thanked Staff and Administration for their 
hard work on this project and said they hoped to vote on this item 
before the end of the year. 
 #9. 5:56:00 PM Informational: Final Status of Sustainability Projects for the Fiscal Year 2020 Budget 
The Council will receive a written briefing about the final 
status of Sustainability Projects approved in the Fiscal Year 2020 
budget. View Attachment 
 Vicki Bennett and Mayor Mendenhall briefed the Council.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2020 
 
 
20 - 7 
 
Discussion was held regarding the Call2Haul program. No new 
information was available; however, work had continued and a hybrid 
system (balanced approach between old/new system) was being 
considered. 
 STANDING ITEMS 
 #10. 5:58:01 PM REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR. 
 
No discussion was held. 
 #11. 5:58:11 PM REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. 
Report of the Executive Director, including a review of 
Council information items and announcements. The Council may give 
feedback or staff direction on any item related to City Council 
business, including but not limited to scheduling items. 
 
See File M 20-5 for announcements. 
 #12. 6:00:42 PM CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE. 
 Item not held. 
 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 6:01 p.m. 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
October 13, 2020. 
 
Minutes Approved on June 8, 2021 
 
sc/ks 
Chris Wharton (Jul 13, 2021 16:41 MDT)
Cindy Trishman (Jul 13, 2021 20:45 MDT)

10-13-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes
(approved 06-08-21)
Final Audit Report 2021-07-14
Created:2021-06-23
By:Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAg3kt-GZ81XKypl9uRkZWwK48cpEJ_kyY
"10-13-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes (approved 06-08-21)" 
History
Document created by Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
2021-06-23 - 5:35:41 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-06-23 - 5:36:29 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-07-13 - 10:41:15 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-13 - 10:41:26 PM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-07-13 - 10:41:28 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-07-14 - 2:45:32 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2021-07-14 - 2:45:32 AM GMT
