PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
October 18, 2021

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the City Council of Park City, Utah will hold its special City Council
meeting at the Marsac Municipal Building, City Council Chambers, 445 Marsac Avenue, Park City, Utah 84060
for the purposes and at the times as described below on Monday, October 18, 2021. To participate virtually,
follow the public meeting information at www.parkcity.org.

      NOTICE OF ELECTRONIC MEETING AND HOW TO COMMENT VIRTUALLY:
      This meeting will be an electronic meeting based on the Mayor’s Determination: As Mayor, I hereby
      determine that conducting the Park City Council meeting at an anchor location presents a substantial
      risk to the health and safety of those who may be present. This is a precautionary change in the meeting
      format for the safety of the public and City employees. It is based on evolving circumstances and the
      latest reports from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. Public comments can be accepted
      virtually. To comment virtually, use eComment or raise your hand on Zoom. Written comments submitted
      before or during the meeting will be entered into the public record, but will not be read aloud. For more
      information on participating virtually and to listen live, please go to www.parkcity.org.

      SPECIAL MEETING - 3:30 p.m.

      ROLL CALL

      NEW BUSINESS

                Consideration to Accept or Deny the Southeast Quinn's Junction Annexation Petition,
                Proposing Annexation of Approximately 1,200 Acres in the Richardson Flat and Clark
                Ranch Area
                (A) Public Input

      ADJOURNMENT

A majority of City Council members may meet socially after the meeting. If so, the location will be announced
by the Mayor. City business will not be conducted. Pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals
needing special accommodations during the meeting should notify the City Recorder at 435-615-5007 at least
24 hours prior to the meeting. Public comments can be accepted virtually. To comment virtually, use
eComment or raise your hand on Zoom. Written comments submitted before or during the meeting will be
entered into the public record, but will not be read aloud. For more information on participating virtually and to
listen live, please go to www.parkcity.org.

*Parking is available at no charge for Council meeting attendees who park in the China Bridge parking
structure.
