PARK CITY COUNCIL MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
November 16, 2021

PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the City Council of Park City, Utah will hold its special City Council
meeting at the Marsac Municipal Building, City Council Chambers, 445 Marsac Avenue, Park City, Utah 84060
for the purposes and at the times as described below on Tuesday, November 16, 2021. To participate virtually,
follow the public meeting information at www.parkcity.org.

       NOTICE OF ELECTRONIC MEETING
       As Mayor, I hereby determine that conducting a public meeting at an anchor location presents a
       substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may be present. This determination is based on the
       number and rolling average of positive COVID-19 cases in Utah over the past week as well as the rolling
       average percent positivity rate throughout Utah during that time. To view this meeting electronically,
       please go to https://www.parkcity.org/government/city-council/city-council-meetings/current-public-
       meeting-info-listen-live

       SPECIAL MEETING - 4:00 p.m.

I.     ROLL CALL

II.    BOARD OF CANVASSERS

       1.       Consideration to Adopt Resolution 27-2021, a Resolution of the Board of Canvassers
                Certifying the Official Canvassers’ Report from the November 2, 2021, Municipal General
                Election for Park City, Utah
                (A) Action

III.   ADJOURNMENT

A majority of City Council members may meet socially after the meeting. If so, the location will be announced
by the Mayor. City business will not be conducted. Pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals
needing special accommodations during the meeting should notify the City Recorder at 435-615-5007 at least
24 hours prior to the meeting. Public comments can be accepted virtually. To comment virtually, use
eComment or raise your hand on Zoom. Written comments submitted before or during the meeting will be
entered into the public record, but will not be read aloud. For more information on participating virtually and to
listen live, please go to www.parkcity.org.

*Parking is available at no charge for Council meeting attendees who park in the China Bridge parking
structure.
