PARK CITY HISTORIC PRESERVATION BOARD MEETING
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH
January 5, 2022

The Chair issued a written determination that because of the public health emergency, conducting a meeting
with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may attend in person.
This determination is based on the ongoing risks and infection rates statewide and in Summit County. For
these reasons, this meeting will be an electronic meeting without an anchor location.

Historic Preservation Board members will connect electronically. Public comments will be accepted virtually. To
comment virtually, use eComment or raise your hand on Zoom. Written comments submitted before or during
the meeting will be entered into the public record but will not be read aloud. For more information on attending
virtually and to listen live, please go to www.parkcity.org.

MEETING CALLED TO ORDER AT 5:00 PM.
    The Chair issued a written determination that because of the public health emergency, conducting a
    meeting with an anchor location presents a substantial risk to the health and safety of those who may
    attend in person. This determination is based on the ongoing risks and infection rates statewide and in
    Summit County. For these reasons, this meeting will be an electronic meeting without an anchor
    location.

      Historic Preservation Board members will connect electronically. Public comments will be accepted
      virtually. To comment virtually, use eComment or raise your hand on Zoom. Written comments submitted
      before or during the meeting will be entered into the public record but will not be read aloud. For more
      information on attending virtually and to listen live, please go to www.parkcity.org.

1.ROLL CALL

2.MINUTES APPROVAL

       2.A.     Consideration to Approve the Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from October 10, 2021.
                Consideration to Approve the Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from November 3, 2021.

3.PUBLIC COMMUNICATIONS

4.STAFF AND BOARD COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCLOSURES

CONSENT AGENDA

                Adoption of 2022 meeting dates.
5.WORK SESSION

      5.A.     2022 Annual Cindy Matsumoto Historic Preservation Award Work Session -- Staff
               recommends that the Historic Preservation Board choose up to five nominees for the
               2022 Annual Cindy Matsumoto Historic Preservation Award and select three members to
               form an Artist Selection Committee. GI-21-00481

6.REGULAR AGENDA

      6.A.     Open and Public Meetings Act Training

7.ADJOURN

Pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations during the
meeting should notify the Planning Department at 435-615-5060 or planning@parkcity.org at least 24 hours
prior to the meeting.




Park City                                  Page 2
