CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 22-22

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, STATE OF
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:  That certain map or maps entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Woodruff Neighborhood and as specifically identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Neighborhood
Center (NC)

SECTION 2:  This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

        PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, _________
THIS DAY OF ______________, 2022.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

                                        ______________________________
                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair

ATTEST:
______________________________
Teresa Harris, City Recorder


                        PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

        The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the ____ day of ______________, 2022.

                                        ______________________________
                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair

                        MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

        The foregoing ordinance is hereby __________________ this ___ day of ____________,
2022.

                                        ______________________________
                                        Holly H. Daines, Mayor

===== PAGE 2 =====

EXHIBIT A

[map/plat page 2 — no text]
Aerial map title block: "Fairway Lofts / 391 South 400 West"
Labels: MR-12, NC, PUB, REC, REC
"Subject Property Proposed Zoning = NC"
Street labels: 450 W, 500 W, 400 W, 385 W, RODEO, 365 S, 360 S, 400 S
Caption: "Proposed Zoning   October 27, 2022"

===== PAGE 3 =====

[LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE — COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

DATE:       November 7, 2022
FROM:       Russ Holley, Senior Planner
SUBJECT:    Ordinance #22-22 Fairway Lofts

Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                                   The Watermark Rezone
Request:                                        Zoning Map Amendment to NC
Project Address:                                391 South 400 West
Recommendation of the Planning Commission:      Approval

On October 27, 2022 the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the
rezone.

Planning Commissioners vote (6-0):
Motion:  Croshaw
Second: Petersen

Vote to recommend approval to City Council:
Yea: Lucero, Lewis, Petersen, Croshaw, Doutre, Guth
Nay: None
Abstain: None

Attachments:
Ordinance #22-22
Staff Report & Project Slides
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes

===== PAGE 4 =====

[LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE — COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

Project #22-061
Fairway Lofts
Located at approximately 391 South 400 West

REPORT SUMMARY...
Project Name:               Fairway Lofts
Proponent / Owner:          Tony Johnson / Alliance Acquisitions LLC
Project Address:            391 South 400 West
Request:                    Rezone, Design Review & Conditional Use Permit
Current Zoning:             Mixed Residential Low (MR-12)
Type of Action:             Legislative & Quasi-Judicial
Hearing Date                October 27, 2022
Submitted By:               Russ Holley, Senior Planner

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend approval for a Rezone from
Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Neighborhood Center (NC) and conditionally approve a
Design Review and Conditional Use Permit for project #22-061, Fairway Lofts, in the Mixed
Residential Low (MR-12) zone located at approximately 391 South 400 West, TIN #002-038-
0001.

Current Land use adjoining the subject property
North:  MR-12: Residential Uses        East:   MR-12: Residential Uses
South:  REC: County Fairgrounds        West:   MR-12: Residential Uses

Project Proposal
This proposal is for a rezone from MR-12 to NC, a Design Review and Conditional Use Permit
for a new 1,000 SF corner market, two residential dwelling units, detached garage, drive-thru
lane, patio, parking and landscaping areas on a 0.26 acre corner lot at the intersection of 400
South and 400 West. One of the dwelling units (Old Victorian Home) is being proposed as a
short-term rental. The property currently has a home, built in 1911, and the old, abandoned
Fairway Market corner building (built circa 1940's). The existing home is being proposed to be
remodeled and new modern-designed tiny-home placed directly adjacent for a total of two (2)
residential dwelling units. The site is located directly north of the Cache County Fairgrounds, a
block from the Logan Aquatic Center and approximately two blocks from Logan High School.

Figure 1 shows the proposed Corner Market with detached garage to the right and two residential units behind.

- 1 -

===== PAGE 5 =====

Rezone
The MR-12 zone (existing zoning designation) allows for lower density multi-family residential
developments at 12 units per acre. Building heights are set at 35 feet tall and front setbacks are
10 feet. The NC zone (proposed zone) is both a commercial and residential zone intended to
serve neighborhood populations. Commercial square footages are limited to 5,000 SF and land
uses are limited to minimize commercial impacts to surrounding residents. Residential units are
limited to 9 units per acre and building height is set at 35 feet tall.

The Future Land Use Plan (FLUP) shows this property as Mixed Residential (MR) and does not
distinguish between MR 9-30 for MR zoning districts. The FLUP shows only four areas as
Neighborhood Commercial (NC), all of which are on the east side of the city. The NC zone is
intended, as per Logan City General Plan, to be implemented in areas for a modest level of
convenience-oriented commercial services. The NC zone could be considered a small-scale
floating zone (spot zone), as it is atypical to see larger areas grouped and zoned NC, which is
the way other zoning districts are typically applied. The NC zone should be pedestrian oriented
and should not compromise neighborhood character.

Land Use
The Land Development Code (LDC) Table 17.08.040 permits and conditionally permits
residential uses, food service, retail sales and office land use in the NC zone. With a conditional
use permit in residential zones, a short-term rental can be legally established. The applicant is
requesting approvals for a corner-market (food service), standard residential use and one short-
term rental, all of which comply with code allowances.

Figure 2 shows the proposed site plan.
[site plan rendering — labels: 400 West, 400 South]

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 2 -

===== PAGE 6 =====

Short Term Rentals
The purpose of LDC 17.37.130 is to regulate short term rentals (STR) to ensure compatibility
within residential neighborhoods and that they won't unreasonably reduce long-term housing
opportunities. The general requirements are:
    • Occupied less than 30 continuous days.
    • Business license required.
    • Conditional Use Permit (CUP) required.
    • Meet minimum neighborhood density by being located at least 500' from another STR.
    • The number of STR's citywide is limited to 3 STR's per every 1,000 of total population.

The specific operational standards for STR's are as follows:
    • Maximum occupancy is two (occupants) per bedroom plus two additional occupants.
    • Parking shall be located on-site at one space per bedroom with a minimum of two
      parking spaces per STR required.
    • Current residential appearance or character cannot change because of the STR.
    • No more than one STR per residential structure (multi-family structures).
    • STR's are subject to City's nuisance ordinances. Repeated failure to comply will result in
      loss of CUP and Business License.
    • STR's shall comply with all current applicable building, fire, health, safety, maintenance
      codes.
    • Signage is limited to two square feet and only located on the building wall.

Conditional Use Permit
The CUP process provides a system for discretionary consideration for applications that are not
typically associated with zoning district uses. CUP approvals should preserve and enhance
neighborhood character and provide conditions to mitigate any potential impacts. Land
Development Code (LDC) §17.37.130 requires a CUP for STR's in all residential zones. Section
17.42.050 in the LDC governs the approval criteria for Conditional Uses.

§17.42.050    Planning Commission Action
        The Commission may approve or conditionally approve a conditional use permit only upon
        substantiating the following findings:
A.  The maximum established density has not been exceeded, unless a density bonus has been
    approved in conformance with General Plan policy and City ordinance.
B.  The proposed use conforms to the requirements of Title 17 of the Logan Municipal Code and is
    listed as a conditional use in the Use Table.
C.  The use is compatible with surrounding land uses and will not interfere with the use and
    enjoyment of adjoining or area properties.
D.  The streets providing access and other infrastructure to the subject property have adequate
    capacities or a suitable level of service for the conditional use.
E.  The proposed use is compatible with neighborhood uses and character while preserving and
    enhancing the character of the neighborhood.
F.  Access to adjoining streets is designed to be constructed in conformance with City standards and
    specifications. Where adjoining streets are regulated by the Utah Department of Transportation,
    access to street(s) shall conform to the requirements of the Cache Access Management Plan.
G.  The proposed use provides adequate off-street parking in conformance with this Title.
H.  The project provides open space and landscaping in conformance with this Title.

When approving a CUP, the Planning Commission must substantiate the above lists of criteria
for the specific application. CUP approvals include substantiating the "preservation and
enhancement of neighborhood character" and "compatibility and interference with use and
enjoyment of neighboring properties". These discretionary issues need to be reviewed to ensure
a proposed STR is compatible within the project site and within the surrounding neighborhood.

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 3 -

===== PAGE 7 =====

Design Review Permit
Design Review Permits are required for new commercial and multi-family developments in the
city. The site is partially developed but has abandoned all previously legally established
entitlements. The corner market and two-unit residential structure and accompanying site
improvements are all subject to design review and code requirements.

Setbacks
The Land Development Code (LDC) requirements for setbacks in the NC zone are as follows
(as measured from property lines):
Front:                  10-25'
Corner:                 10-25'
Side:                   8'
Rear:                   10'

The following setbacks are proposed for the building(s) (as measured from the exterior property
lines of the project site, at closest points):

Proposed New Residential Unit
Front (south):          80+'
Corner (east):          55'
Side (west):            14'
Rear (north):           12'

Existing Residential Home (grandfathered structure)
Front (south):          49'
Corner (east):          50'
Side (west):            14'
Rear (north):           24'

Existing Corner Market Building (grandfathered structure)
Front (south):          0'
Corner (east):          0'
Side (west):            60'
Rear (north):           80'

Proposed New Detached Garage
Front (east):           0'
Side (north)            14'
Side (south):           60'
Rear (north):           80'

As proposed, the project does not meet the 10-foot setback for the proposed detached garage
along 400 West. The corner market and existing home are grandfathered structures and are not
subject to new setback regulations (unless willingly demolished). The new "tiny home"
placement will be regulated by the building code for minimum separation from the existing home
as no new property lines are proposed through the center of the site. As conditioned with
setback compliance, the project meets the requirements for the zone.

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 4 -

===== PAGE 8 =====

Figure 3 shows the two residential units in the rear (one being proposed as a short-term rental)
[building rendering]

Lot Coverage
The LDC 17.10.060 establishes a maximum lot coverage of 60% (building(s) footprint) in the NC
zone. The proposed 3,300 SF building(s) on the 0.26-acre (11,325 SF) equals a lot coverage of
approximately 30%. As submitted, the proposed lot coverage complies with the maximum
allowance in the LDC.

Building Design
The LDC 17.12.020 requires new buildings to be high-quality and aesthetically pleasing. Four-
sided architecture is required, and blank walls should be minimized. The building height is
limited to 35' and minimum transparencies on the ground floors for commercial buildings are set
at 50%. Residential building design standards default to the residential sections of the code, not
the NC commercial standards.

The existing corner store building is a grandfathered structure from a setback standpoint, but
modifications are being proposed to the façade design. All street facing facades will need to
have 50% transparency to comply with the current LDC. The detached garage is subject to
façade design requirements and will be required 50% transparency if associated with the corner
store. As conditioned with additional transparency, the building design is compliant with the
requirements in the LDC.

Parking Requirements
The LDC requires two parking stalls per residential dwelling unit, one parking stall per bedroom
in the short-term rental (minimum two stalls) and one parking stall per 250 square feet for corner
store commercial space. The code does not allow parking stalls to be located between the
street and the structure in the NC zone. Being a site with multiple structures, location of parking
stalls will be based on which building they are assigned to. If the detached garage is associated
with the homes, it will need to move so that it is not located between the street and the primary
structure. Drive-thru lanes associated with commercial uses (food) are required to have 8-car
stacking measured from the window. The proposed project shows a total of 9 parking stalls and
8-car stacking in the drive-thru lane. Three of the parking stalls are located in areas that are
between the structure and the street or inside minimum setback areas. Based on the LDC and
the size of the commercial building, 4 stalls are required for the commercial building, 2 stalls for
the home and 2 stalls for the short-term rental for a total of 8 parking stalls required for this
project. As conditioned by Logan City Engineering, the proposed six driveways are not allowed,

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 5 -

===== PAGE 9 =====

only two driveways will be permitted in this situation. As conditioned with full parking and
driveway compliance, the project meets the parking requirements in the LDC.

Open Space and Landscaping
The LDC 17.07.120 requires open space and landscaping to buffer neighborhood center
buildings and uses from adjacent properties. The LDC 17.32 requires minimum landscaping for
overall visual aesthetics, ecological reasons, visual screening, shading purposes, and
enhancement of the outdoor experience. The LDC requires a minimum of 20 trees and a
combination of 50 shrubs, flowers, and ornamental grasses per acre of land for
commercial/multi-family projects. At 0.26-acres, 5 trees and 13 shrubs, perennials and
ornamental grasses are required as per the LDC.  As conditioned with minimum landscaping
numbers placed in areas that ensure buffering of neighboring properties, the project complies
with the LDC.

Lighting
The LDC 17.37.090 requires adequate lighting that adds aesthetic quality and improves safety
while mitigating unnecessary glare, sky glow and light trespass. The LDC limits freestanding
pole height to 32 feet and luminaire fixtures on buildings and canopies to be concealed source,
down-cast and shielded from neighboring properties. Light measurements are required to range
between 0.5 – 4.0-foot candles, so areas are sufficiently safe, but not excessively bright. As
submitted, no exterior lighting has been shown.  As conditioned, the project meets the
requirements of the LDC.

Summary
The rezone is the most pivotal decision with this project request as all else depends on that
result. Being an old, abandoned corner store, near the fairgrounds, aquatic center and High
School, one could argue that this is a good location for NC zoning. The west side of the city is
under-served from a corner store or small-scale neighborhood center commercial services
standpoint (east side has the Island Market, Fredrico's Area, 1000 North and 700 East, etc...).
Staff is concerned about the drive-thru and character of the neighborhood. Drive thru lanes are
not appropriate in NC developments. All the other NC zoned areas in the city do not have a
drive-thru lane. Drive-thru lanes do not, according to staff, meet the intent of the NC zone
description. The LDC and General Plan both describe NC areas as being pedestrian oriented
and preserving neighborhood character. The proposed design with 6 driveways, a drive-thru
lane and up to 15 cars placed in highly visible areas on about a quarter of an acre is not
consistent with surrounding residential character and not permitted by the Engineering
Department. Unlike the drive-thru lane, the building setbacks, parking locations and landscaping
issues can be re-designed in a manner that does not negatively impact the neighborhood
character.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
Comments were solicited from the following departments or agencies:
    • Environmental        • Water
    • Engineering          • Light and Power

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of
this report, no comments have been received.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 10/10/22, posted on the City's website
and the Utah Public Meeting website on 10/17/22, and mailed to property owners within 300 feet
on 10/10/22 and a quarter page ad published in the Herald Journal 10/13/22.

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 6 -

===== PAGE 10 =====

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
This project is subject to the proponent or property owner agreeing to comply with the following
conditions as written, or as may be amended by the Planning Commission.
    1.  All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Design Review and are
        available in the Community Development Department.
    2.  The drive-thru lane is not compatible with the neighborhood character and cannot be
        allowed in the NC zone.
    3.  This Conditional Use Permit authorizes a one (2) bedroom short term rental occupying
        the entire old Victorian single-family home.
    4.  This Conditional Use Permit authorizes two (2) people per bedroom with two (2)
        additional individuals for a maximum of six (6) occupants within the STR and entire tiny
        home.
    5.  A minimum of two (2) parking stalls are required for the STR. Parking areas shall be
        located on-site, off-street and outside of the front yard 25' setback. All parking stalls
        shall be paved, 9'x18' along with a minimum 12-foot-wide driveway for access. Parking
        shall be outside of setbacks and fully verified, installed and approved prior to the
        issuance of the business license.
    6.  Parking of recreational vehicles, trailers, boats, ATVs or similar vehicles associated
        with the STR shall be legally parked on-site and are not permitted to be parked on-
        street.
    7.  Rental contracts for the STR shall be for 30 days or less.
    8.  Rental contracts shall not be offered to the same individual, group, or party for more
        than two consecutive rental contracts in a six (6) month period. The owner shall
        maintain rental records available for review and inspection by Logan City.
    9.  Quiet times shall comply with the City noise ordinance of 10 pm to 8am.
    10. A Logan City building/fire inspection is required which may result in building
        remodeling and building permits prior to the issuance of a business license.
    11. A Logan City business license is required before a rental contract can be issued.
    12. The STR shall comply with local and state Building, Health, Fire, Safety, Maintenance
        and Nuisance Codes prior to operating.
    13. The corner store shall provide four (4) parking stalls and a bike rack and and tiny home
        shall provide two (2) parking stalls. All stalls must meet setback and location standards
        and may require additional landscaping to buffer views and impacts.
    14. The detached garage structure shall meet a front setback of at least 10 feet.
    15. The corner store shall have at least 50% transparency on both street facing facades.
        The detached garage, if associated with the corner store, shall have 50%
        transparency.
    16. The detached garage must be moved to a located that is not in between the street and
        the primary structure.
    17. Landscaping shall be placed along the north and west border to sufficiently buffer the
        neighboring residential properties and contain at least 5 trees and 13 shrubs. Street
        trees are required, in addition to on-site trees, in the park-strip along the project
        frontage.
    18. All dumpsters shall be visually screened or buffered from public streets by using
        fencing, walls and landscaping.
    19. Rooftop mechanical and/or building wall mechanical equipment shall be placed out of
        view from the street or screen from view from the street.
    20. Exterior lighting shall be concealed source, down-cast and shall not illuminate or cast
        light onto adjacent properties.
    21. No signs are approved with this Design Review Permit. All signage shall be approved
        and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    22. No fences are approved with this Design Review Permit. All fences shall be approved
        and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    23. Surface storm-water retention and detention facilities shall not be located in front yard
        areas unless landscaped in a manner that entirely screens and buffers the pond areas. If

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 7 -

===== PAGE 11 =====

located in rear-yard or areas out of view from the public, landscaping and buffering is not
necessary.
    24. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the Director of Community Development shall
        receive a written memorandum from each of the following departments or agencies
        indicating that their requirements have been satisfied:
        a. Environmental— contact 716-9760
    • Minimum 60 ft. straight on access required. Approach must be level, no down or uphill
      slopes.
    • Minimum inside measurement for a double enclosure is 24 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
      Minimum inside measurement for a single enclosure is 12 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
    • Place bollards in the back of the enclosure to protect walls.
    • Gates are not required, however if desired, they must be designed to stay open during
      the collection process.
    • Barrel hinges are suggested for the gates. We need the full 12 ft. clearance so
      gates must be designed to open completely.
        b. Engineering — contact 716-9160
    • Provide water shares or in-lieu fee for all new water demand from the development to
      the City system.
    • Area is less than 1 acre so compliance with State Storm Water Permit is not required.
      Development shall comply with Logan City design standards in regards to meeting
      storm water management and detention/retention requirements.  Development shall
      also provide a sediment and erosion control plan for all construction activities.
    • There is no reference in the application to pursue a subdivision plat for this parcel.
      Comments are therefore provided assuming that the property will not be subdivided.  If
      subdivision of the property is pursued, additional requirements will apply, and the
      development will need to resubmit for Planning Commission approval.
    • Per section 17.29.070 only one driveway is permitted for commercial lots unless the
      Director of Public Works approves a second driveway.  A second driveway will be
      permitted if the driveways are located on the west 30 feet of the 400 S frontage and the
      north 30 feet of the 400 W frontage.  Driveways shall be subject to non-residential
      driveway width dimensions as specified in 17.29.060.C.
    • There is currently one existing water meter and one sewer service to the lot.  Two
      additional water meters and two sewer services shall be provided for to service the
      three structures.
    • All infrastructure shall be installed, maintained, and repaired/replaced in accordance
      with Logan City Standards.
    • Sidewalks through the drive approaches to this development shall be a minimum of 6
      inches thick per City standards.  Remove and replace sidewalk as adjacent to the
      driveways as needed to comply with this requirement.  Any existing sidewalk that is
      broken or damaged by construction activities shall be removed and replaced prior to
      acceptance of the project.
    • The site shall construct concrete curb and gutter in accordance with approved City
      standards on 400 W and 400 S along the length of the frontage.  The development
      shall also improve the park strip along the two frontages including the provision of
      permanent irrigation lines and appurtenances.
        c. Light and Power —contact 716-9722
    • Logan City Light and Power; Requires 1-Line Diagram, A Logan City Load Data
      Sheet, A Digital Site Plan In Auto CAD (DWG) Format and PUE's Public Utility
      Easement 10' Easement On All Property Lines That Face A Road Way, And A 5'
      Easement On All Other Property Lines. Contact Light and Power for Power
      Location and a meet on site.
        d. Water —contact 716-9627
    • 1The buildings water main needs to have a RP (ASSE1013) installed and tested on the
      water main after the water meter, as it enters the building before any branch offs or

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 8 -

===== PAGE 12 =====

possible connections inside or outside of building. Properly sized drain required to serve
the backflow assemblies dump port.
    • Refer to Utah State Amendment # 608.1.1,608.1.2,608.1.2.1 for installation criteria.
    • All landscape irrigation system's fed from Logan City water must have a high hazard
      rated backflow assembly installed and tested.  All backflow assemblies must be tested
      within 10 days of turning in water to them and annually thereafter.
    • Fire suppression systems that are connected to Logan City water (with no added
      chemicals) must have a minimum DC (ASSE1015) installed and tested. Fire risers and
      B/F assemblies must be installed as per Logan City standards.
    • All points of use of water must comply with the 2018 IPC and State of Utah
      Amendments and the Utah Admin Code 309-105-12 during and after construction.
      (Cooling, heating, processing, treating, chemicals and irrigating etc.) Project shall
      comply with all current plumbing codes, Utah State Amendments, Utah Division of
      Drinking Water rules and regulations including, but not limited to, those pertaining to
      backflow protection and cross connection prevention.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL FOR THE REZONE, DESIGN REVIEW AND
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
The Planning Commission bases its decisions on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
    1.  The NC zoning district is intended to be neighborhood serving, pedestrian oriented and in
        locations that do not compromise neighborhood character.
    2.  As conditioned without the drive-thru lane, the reconfigured parking that better screens and
        buffers cars, the project meets the intent of the NC zoning district.
    3.  The proposed project is compatible with surrounding land uses and will not interfere with
        the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties because of the conditioned building design,
        site layout, materials, and circulation.
    4.  The proposed project provides required off-street parking as per the LDC.
    5.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land Development Code
        and the Municipal Code.
    6.  400 South and 400 West provides access and are adequate in size and design to
        sufficiently handle all traffic modes and infrastructure related to the land use.

[Boxed disclaimer:]
This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents, standard city development practices, and available information.  The report is to be
used to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting.  Additional information may be revealed by
participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development
reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional information at the Planning Commission meeting.

Project #22-061 Fairway Lofts        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Oct. 27th 2022
- 9 -

===== PAGE 13 =====

[Title slide]
LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE
PC #22-058
Fairway Lofts
Rezone & Design Review & Conditional Use Permit
391 S 400 W

===== PAGE 14 =====

[map/plat page 14 — no text]
Aerial slide title block: "Fairway Lofts / 391 South 400 West"
Label: "Subject Property 0.26 acres"
Street labels: 450 W, 500 W, 400 W, 385 W, RODEO, 365 S, 360 S, 400 S
Caption: "October 27, 2022"

===== PAGE 15 =====

[map/plat page 15 — no text]
Aerial zoning slide title block: "Fairway Lofts / 391 South 400 West"
Labels: MR-12, MR-12, MR-12, PUB, REC, REC
"Subject Property Existing Zoning"
Street labels: 450 W, 500 W, 400 W, 385 W, RODEO, 365 S, 360 S, 400 S
Caption: "Existing Zoning   October 27, 2022"

===== PAGE 16 =====

[map/plat page 16 — no text]
Aerial zoning slide title block: "Fairway Lofts / 391 South 400 West"
Labels: MR-12, NC, MR-12, PUB, REC, REC
"Subject Property Proposed Zoning = NC"
Street labels: 450 W, 500 W, 400 W, 385 W, RODEO, 365 S, 360 S, 400 S
Caption: "Proposed Zoning   October 27, 2022"

===== PAGE 17 =====

[map/plat page 17 — no text]
Aerial FLUP slide title block: "Fairway Lofts / 391 South 400 West"
Labels: MR, MR, MR, PUB, REC
"Subject Property FLUP = MR"
Street labels: 450 W, 500 W, 400 W, 385 W, RODEO, 365 S, 360 S, 400 S
Caption: "FLUP   October 27, 2022"

===== PAGE 18 =====

[map/plat page 18 — no text]
Close aerial slide title block: "Fairway Lofts / 391 South 400 West"
Street labels: 400 W, 400 S
Caption: "October 27, 2022"

===== PAGE 19 =====

[map/plat page 19 — no text]
Close aerial slide (with site plan overlay) title block: "Fairway Lofts / 391 South 400 West"
Street labels: 400 W, 400 S
Caption: "October 27, 2022"

===== PAGE 20 =====

[map/plat page 20 — no text]
Street-level photograph of the existing corner-store site (rotated sideways); no legible text.
[photo page 21 — no text]

[photo page 22 — no text]

[rendering page 23 — no text]

[rendering page 24 — no text; title-block labels:]
1
10
Existing House 3D View
9/17/2022 3:18:49 PM
10
Fair Grounds House
MAS  MANSFIELD ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES
STEVEN R. MANSFIELD    ARCHITECT
435-512-6249    steven.mansfield@usu.edu
445 EAST 275 NORTH, HYDE PARK, UTAH  84318

[rendering page 25 — no text; title-block labels:]
1
16
axon
9/17/2022 4:09:10 PM
16
Fair Grounds - Small House
MAS  MANSFIELD ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES
STEVEN R. MANSFIELD    ARCHITECT
435-512-6249    steven.mansfield@usu.edu
445 EAST 275 NORTH, HYDE PARK, UTAH  84318

[rendering page 26 — no text; title-block labels:]
1
22
Axon
9/17/2022 4:57:41 PM
22
Fair Ground Market
MAS  MANSFIELD ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES
STEVEN R. MANSFIELD    ARCHITECT
435-512-6249    steven.mansfield@usu.edu
445 EAST 275 NORTH, HYDE PARK, UTAH  84318

[rendering page 27 — no text; title-block labels:]
9/17/2022 9:03:05 PM
23
Fair Grounds Lofts
MAS  MANSFIELD ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES
STEVEN R. MANSFIELD    ARCHITECT
435-512-6249    steven.mansfield@usu.edu
445 EAST 275 NORTH, HYDE PARK, UTAH  84318

[rendering page 28 — no text; title-block labels:]
9/17/2022 9:03:26 PM
25
Fair Grounds Lofts
MAS  MANSFIELD ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES
STEVEN R. MANSFIELD    ARCHITECT
435-512-6249    steven.mansfield@usu.edu
445 EAST 275 NORTH, HYDE PARK, UTAH  84318

--- page 29 ---

PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES
Meeting of October 27, 2022

LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

Logan City Council Chambers (290 N 100 W Logan, UT 84321) www.loganutah.org

Minutes of the meeting for the Logan City Planning Commission convened in regular session Thursday, October 27, 2022, Commissioner Lucero called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Commissioners Present: Jessica Lucero, Roylan Croshaw, Jordy Guth, David Lewis, Eldon Peterson, Sara Doutre

Commissioners Excused: Ken Heare

Staff Present: Russ Holley, Tanya Rice, Mike DeSimone, Amanda Pearce, Mohammed Abdullahi Darren Farar, Jeannie Simmonds (City Council)

Commissioner Doutre moved to approve the minutes from the October 13, 2022 meeting as submitted.  Motion seconded by Commissioner Croshaw.  The motion was approved unanimously.

PUBLIC HEARING:

PC 22-056 Mountainside Estates Amendment -Requesting continuance to the November 17th meeting. [Subdivision Permit] Brent Lawyer/Capstone Consulting LLC & Shree Giriraj Ji Inc, authorized agent/owner are requesting a Subdivision Permit to modify their existing subdivision plat by adding 4 building lots.  The subdivision is located at approximately 1200 East 1400 North in the Suburban Neighborhood Residential NR-4) zone; TIN 05-011-0006 (Hillcrest Neighborhood)

MOTION: Commissioner Peterson moved to continue PC 22-056 to the November 17, 2022 meeting. Motion seconded by Commissioner Guth.  The motion was approved unanimously.

PC 22-058 The Watermark [Zone Change & Design Review Permit] Joshua Low/Watermark Project LLC, authorized agent/owner are requesting a zone change of 11.13 acres from Commercial (COM) to Mixed Residential High (MR-30) to construct 28 townhomes and 204 multi-family condominiums for a total of 232 residential units located at approximately 1262 West 2200 South in the Commercial (COM) zone; TIN 03-007-0010; -0011; -0023 (Woodruff Neighborhood).

STAFF: Russ Holley, Senior Planner, reviewed the request for a Rezone of approximately 11.13-acres (three parcels) from Commercial (COM) to Mixed Residential High (MR-30), and a Design Review Permit to develop a new multi-family housing project containing 232 units.  The Design Review Permit is contingent on the outcome of the zone change.

R. Holley reviewed the surrounding zones and housing types.  Nibley City borders this project to the south and east.  Thomas Edison Charter school is located directly to the south in Nibley City.

The property is identified on the Future Land Use Plan (FLUP) as COM and considering its proximity to the highway, commercial land use could be considered a viable long-term solution. The South Highway Overlay anticipated this area to be developed commercial with larger setbacks and in a nodal manner associated with the new 1000 West traffic light.  There will only be two additional traffic lights installed along the highway, one near 3200 south and one possibly near 2600 south. The FLUP

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        1 | P a g e

--- page 30 ---

has already identified numerous acres in this area as MR that are currently in the process of being developed into multi-family and townhome developments.  Commercial use would be ideal for this site, whereas living near a high-speed highway is not ideal (noise, pollution, and safety). The rezone request is not consistent with the FLUP and has not been anticipated by both the surrounding Logan and Nibley neighborhoods.  Staff is recommending denial of the zone change.

There have been 85 comments received on this project.  The main concern addressed in all of the comments was the nearby elementary school and the safety of the children who attend.

Commissioner Croshaw asked what the density difference is between COM and MR-30 zones.  R. Holley stated the maximum height is lower in the COM zone, but the density is the same.

Commissioner Doutre asked if utilities are available for this property.  R. Holley said that utilities are available water is available across the highway and sewer is available to the north and the west.

PROPONENT: Josh Low talked about his client and an alternate plan they will be proposing, that includes commercial space if the current proposal does not get approved.

PUBLIC:  Wayne McKay spoke about his concern for the safety of the children at the neighboring elementary school.  With a four-story apartment building next to the school, there is no way to know who is living in these units that can watch over the schoolyard.  He also spoke about issues with the traffic getting onto 1000 West.

Alyssha Jenson spoke about the noticing for this project, the safety of her children that attend the neighboring school, and the developer that is not familiar with the area

David Bair said that there is already enough high density in this area and there is already too much traffic.

Kent Smith spoke about the students, families, traffic concerns, and flooding in the area.  He stated that it is unfair to consider a zone change when the area is already planned for commercial.

J. Bingham said that there is no room for any more students at Ridgeline or Logan High School.

Brent Speth owns storage sheds across 1000 West.  Spoke about how the area next to the highway should remain commercial and residential should be back off the highway.

Frank Scheabel a retired geologist spoke about the wetlands in this area, the high water table in this area, and where all the water is going to go if the area is developed.

Mark Oakey talked about the open space proposition on the ballets and how this is the exact opposite, and the animals that live in the open spaces.

Stephanie Winkler talked about the school being a commuter school that already brings in additional traffic.  The children do not need four-story buildings right next to where they play outside

Dr. Christopher L. spoke about this project changing the culture, nature, and environment of the valley negatively.

Holly Weston said that the public notice should be mailed to a larger area than 300 feet around the project property.  She read a portion of the comment she submitted.

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        2 | P a g e

--- page 31 ---

Luke Dickey asked if there were any plans to widen the roads.

Mickey Duke spoke about how there is already too much density in this area and is amazed that this project would even be considered.

Jordan Schvaneveldt spoke about the school having enough challenges as is and there should not be any added.

Tyler Cady spoke about the traffic concerns, stormwater, and the water table.

COMMISSION: Lucero asked Russ Holley to address the public about the public noticing.  R. Holley stated that Utah's notification requirements were followed for this project. Public Notices were mailed to all property owners that are within a 300-foot radius of the property.  A notice was published in the Herald Journal on October 10th and 13th.  Notice was posted on the City's website as well as the Utah State Public Notice site on October 17th. There is also a notice posted on the City's Facebook Page.

Commissioner Lucero asked Russ to address the comments made regarding the stormwater and the roads.  R. Holley said that projects are submitted for review at about 30% complete. A lot of the technical engineering is completed during the building permit phase.  All building plans submitted for review have to meet state and local code requirements to be issued a building permit.  A portion of the frontage street (center of the road to the project site) is required to be developed along with the property.

Commissioner Peterson said he does not see a need for the rezone.  Commissioner Guth agreed and asked what the neighboring zones are in Nibley and that it would be nice to have a transition between the neighboring properties and this development.  R. Holley said it is a mixture of single-family homes to the southeast, townhomes to the south, just past the school, and some commercial and warehouses to the west and southwest.

The Commissioners agreed that this is a nice project that offers different housing types, this is just not the right location.

MOTION - Zone Change: Commissioner Doutre moved to forward a Recommendation of Denial to the Municipal Council on a Zone Change for PC 22-058 with findings for denial as listed below. Commissioner Peterson seconded the motion.

Commissioner Guth moved to continue the Design Review Permit to January 12, 2023, depending on the outcome of the zone change.  Commissioner Doutre seconded the motion.

FINDINGS FOR DENIAL OF REZONE
1.  The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as COM.
2.  This area is positioned along Highway 89/91 with commercial uses to the north and the neighboring properties are not anticipating MR-30 land uses.
3.  Design incompatibility may be an issue with surrounding properties because they are not anticipating MR-30 land uses.
4.  MR-30 and other higher density developments should be planned and located near services and transit for better walkability and less car dependance.

Moved: S. Doutre          Seconded: E. Peterson                    Approved: 6-0

Yea: Lucero, Croshaw, Lewis, Guth, Peterson, Doutre     Nay:        Abstain:

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        3 | P a g e

--- page 32 ---

MOTION – Design Review: Commissioner Guth moved to Continue PC 22-058 for the Design Review Permit to the January 12, 2023 meeting pending the Municipal Council's decision on the zone change.  Commissioner Doutre seconded the motion.

Moved: J Guth.          Seconded: S. Doutre                    Approved: 6-0

Yea: Lucero, Croshaw, Lewis, Guth, Peterson, Doutre     Nay:        Abstain:

PC 22-061 Fairway Lofts [Zone Change, Design Review, Conditional Use Permit] Tony Johnson/Alliance Acquisitions LLC are requesting a Zone Change of a 0.26-acre parcel from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Neighborhood Center (NC) and a Design Review and Conditional Use Permit to construct approximately 1,000 SF of commercial space, one residential unit, and one short term rental, located at 391 South 400 West in the Mixed Residential (MR-12) zone; TIN 02-038-0001 (Woodruff Neighborhood).

STAFF: Russ Holley, Senior Planner reviewed the request for a Zone Change, Design Review, and Conditional Use Permit to remodel a vacant corner store on the property into an operational commercial service building, remodel the existing home and add a second residential unit.  The first step in this project is the zone change from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Neighborhood Center (NC).  The NC zone is the smallest scale commercial zone in the city, similar to the Island Market and Herms Inn, it is designed to be neighborhood and pedestrian-oriented, where the commercial space is less than 3,000 square feet.  This is a good location as there are not any NC zones on the west side of town.  Where This is a historic corner store, Fairway Market, built in 1951, and the west side of town is underserved, staff is recommending approval of the zone change.

The proposed site plan includes renovating the corner store into a drive-through, a new residential tiny home, and the renovation of the existing Victorian home for short-term rental use.  Staff's concern is with the drive-through and it not being appropriate to the character of the neighborhood. there are also six driveways being proposed, the Land Development Code (LDC) allows two driveways.  Staff is recommending denial of the drive-through and a redesign submitted for two driveways.

Commissioner Doutre asked if there is any other zone that would allow this development.  R. Holley said that the Commercial Center (CC) zone allows for a cluster of commercial uses and doesn't put a cap on the building size.  The NC zone is the least intensive zone that would allow for what the applicant is proposing.

PROPONENT: Tony Johnson, the developer on this project said their main focus is on the preservation of existing buildings.  With this project, they are trying to make sure the corner commercial space is a viable location.  Most of the businesses they have spoken to about using the space have requested the drive-through. Tony gave several operating options they could incorporate to keep the drive-through.  He also suggested that they try the drive-through for a year and then revisit to see if there are any issues and/or neighborhood complaints.

PUBLIC:  Jeannie Simmonds asked if residential space is included in the total square footage allowed in the NC zone.  R. Holley said that only the commercial space is limited to 3,000 square feet.  The number of residential units is based on the size of the lot, which in this case is .25 acre, they are allowed two residential units.

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        4 | P a g e

--- page 33 ---

COMMISSION: Commissioner Doutre said this project makes sense, this is a great area for the proposed zone and use.  The proponent has done a great job of cleaning up this property.

Commissioner Lucero asked if the drive-through concern is a neighborhood compatibility issue, or is it a restriction in the LDC.  R. Holley said that it is a neighborhood compatibility issue.

Commissioner Doutre asked how the six driveways are determined and asked if the proposed drive-through entrance, garage entrance, and parking entrance on the east side should be considered one driveway cut.

Darren Farar, Logan City Engineer stated that Logan City allows one driveway per lot, or per 300 feet of frontage.  There is approximately 120 feet of frontage total for this development, so they are allowed one driveway.  The Public Works director can approve a second driveway.  After looking at this site it was determined that it is a good location for a second driveway.  Additional driveways would cause issues with the intersection, especially if there is a drive-through.

Commissioner Croshaw asked what the driveway cuts can be for this location.  R. Holley said that driveway cuts typically mirror the adjacent street, this project would be for a two-lane, 24-foot wide access.  The parking lots need to have at least a 24-foot wide driveway cut to allow for cars to enter and exit at the same time.

Commissioner Guth stated that a drive-through is not appropriate in a residential area it would create a real safety concern.  R. Holley stated that a drive-through is not prohibited in the LDC for the NC zone, but staff does feel that it is not compatible with the neighborhood zones, and this will be addressed in a future code amendment.

There was a discussion on the commission needing to see a redesign of the drive-through and driveways.  Commissioner Peterson stated that these concerns are covered in the conditions, so conditional approval would be sufficient. The Design Review Permit is contingent upon the City Council approving the rezone request.

MOTION: Commissioner Croshaw moved to forward a Recommendation of Approval to the Municipal council on a Zone Change for PC 22-064 with the recommended findings for approval as listed below, and to Conditionally Approve a Design Review and Conditional Use Permit with the conditions of approval and findings for approval as listed below. Commissioner Peterson seconded the motion.

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
1.  All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Design Review and are available in the Community Development Department.
2.  The drive-thru lane is not compatible with the neighborhood character and cannot be allowed in the NC zone.
3.  This Conditional Use Permit authorizes a one (2) bedroom short term rental occupying the entire old Victorian single-family home.
4.  This Conditional Use Permit authorizes two (2) people per bedroom with two (2) additional individuals for a maximum of six (6) occupants within the STR and entire tiny home.
5.  A minimum of two (2) parking stalls are required for the STR. Parking areas shall be located on-site, off-street and outside of the front yard 25' setback. All parking stalls shall be paved, 9'x18' along with a minimum 12-foot-wide driveway for access. Parking shall be outside of setbacks and fully verified, installed and approved prior to the issuance of the business license.
6.  Parking of recreational vehicles, trailers, boats, ATVs or similar vehicles associated with the STR shall be legally parked on-site and are not permitted to be parked on-street.

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        5 | P a g e

--- page 34 ---

7.  Rental contracts for the STR shall be for 30 days or less.
8.  Rental contracts shall not be offered to the same individual, group, or party for more than two consecutive rental contracts in a six (6) month period. The owner shall maintain rental records available for review and inspection by Logan City.
9.  Quiet times shall comply with the City noise ordinance of 10 pm to 8am.
10. A Logan City building/fire inspection is required which may result in building remodeling and building permits prior to the issuance of a business license.
11. A Logan City business license is required before a rental contract can be issued.
12. The STR shall comply with local and state Building, Health, Fire, Safety, Maintenance and Nuisance Codes prior to operating.
13. The corner store shall provide four (4) parking stalls and a bike rack and tiny home shall provide two (2) parking stalls. All stalls must meet setback and location standards and may require additional landscaping to buffer views and impacts.
14. The detached garage structure shall meet a front setback of at least 10 feet.
15. The corner store shall have at least 50% transparency on both street facing facades. The detached garage, if associated with the corner store, shall have 50% transparency.
16. The detached garage must be moved to a located that is not in between the street and the primary structure.
17. Landscaping shall be placed along the north and west border to sufficiently buffer the neighboring residential properties and contain at least 5 trees and 13 shrubs. Street trees are required, in addition to on-site trees, in the park-strip along the project frontage.
18. All dumpsters shall be visually screened or buffered from public streets by using fencing, walls and landscaping.
19. Rooftop mechanical and/or building wall mechanical equipment shall be placed out of view from the street or screen from view from the street.
20. Exterior lighting shall be concealed source, down-cast and shall not illuminate or cast light onto adjacent properties.
21. No signs are approved with this Design Review Permit. All signage shall be approved and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
22. No fences are approved with this Design Review Permit. All fences shall be approved and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
23. Surface storm-water retention and detention facilities shall not be located in front yard areas unless landscaped in a manner that entirely screens and buffers the pond areas. If located in rear-yard or areas out of view from the public, landscaping and buffering is not necessary.
24. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the Director of Community Development shall receive a written memorandum from each of the following departments or agencies indicating that their requirements have been satisfied:
    a. Environmental— contact 716-9760
    •  Minimum 60 ft. straight on access required. Approach must be level, no down or uphill slopes.
    •  Minimum inside measurement for a double enclosure is 24 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep. Minimum inside measurement for a single enclosure is 12 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
    •  Place bollards in the back of the enclosure to protect walls.
    •  Gates are not required, however if desired, they must be designed to stay open during the collection process.
    •  Barrel hinges are suggested for the gates. We need the full 12 ft. clearance so gates must be designed to open completely.
    b. Engineering — contact 716-9160
    •  Provide water shares or in-lieu fee for all new water demand from the development to the City system.
    •  Area is less than 1 acre so compliance with State Storm Water Permit is not required. Development shall comply with Logan City design standards in regards to meeting storm water

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        6 | P a g e

--- page 35 ---

    management and detention/retention requirements.  Development shall also provide a sediment and erosion control plan for all construction activities.
    •  There is no reference in the application to pursue a subdivision plat for this parcel.  Comments are therefore provided assuming that the property will not be subdivided.  If subdivision of the property is pursued, additional requirements will apply, and the development will need to resubmit for Planning Commission approval.
    •  Per section 17.29.070 only one driveway is permitted for commercial lots unless the Director of Public Works approves a second driveway.  A second driveway will be permitted if the driveways are located on the west 30 feet of the 400 S frontage and the north 30 feet of the 400 W frontage. Driveways shall be subject to non-residential driveway width dimensions as specified in 17.29.060.C.
    •  There is currently one existing water meter and one sewer service to the lot.  Two additional water meters and two sewer services shall be provided for to service the three structures.
    •  All infrastructure shall be installed, maintained, and repaired/replaced in accordance with Logan City Standards..
    •  Sidewalks through the drive approaches to this development shall be a minimum of 6 inches thick per City standards.  Remove and replace sidewalk as adjacent to the driveways as needed to comply with this requirement.  Any existing sidewalk that is broken or damaged by construction activities shall be removed and replaced prior to acceptance of the project.
    •  The site shall construct concrete curb and gutter in accordance with approved City standards on 400 W and 400 S along the length of the frontage.  The development shall also improve the park strip along the two frontages including the provision of permanent irrigation lines and appurtenances.
    c. Light and Power —contact 716-9722
    •  Logan City Light and Power; Requires 1-Line Diagram, A Logan City Load Data Sheet, A Digital Site Plan In Auto CAD (DWG) Format and PUE's Public Utility Easement 10' Easement On All Property Lines That Face A Road Way, And A 5' Easement On All Other Property Lines. Contact Light and Power for Power Location and a meet on site.
    d. Water —contact 716-9627
    •  The buildings water main needs to have a RP (ASSE1013) installed and tested on the water main after the water meter, as it enters the building before any branch offs or possible connections inside or outside of building. Properly sized drain required to serve the backflow assemblies dump port.
    •  Refer to Utah State Amendment # 608.1.1,608.1.2,608.1.2.1 for installation criteria.
    •  All landscape irrigation system's fed from Logan City water must have a high hazard rated backflow assembly installed and tested.  All backflow assemblies must be tested within 10 days of turning in water to them and annually thereafter.
    •  Fire suppression systems that are connected to Logan City water (with no added chemicals) must have a minimum DC (ASSE1015) installed and tested. Fire risers and B/F assemblies must be installed as per Logan City standards.
    •  All points of use of water must comply with the 2018 IPC and State of Utah Amendments and the Utah Admin Code 309-105-12 during and after construction. (Cooling, heating, processing, treating, chemicals and irrigating etc.) Project shall comply with all current plumbing codes, Utah State Amendments, Utah Division of Drinking Water rules and regulations including, but not limited to, those pertaining to backflow protection and cross connection prevention.

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1.  The NC zoning district is intended to be neighborhood serving, pedestrian oriented and in locations that do not compromise neighborhood character.
2.  As conditioned without the drive-thru lane, the reconfigured parking that better screens and buffers cars, the project meets the intent of the NC zoning district.

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        7 | P a g e

--- page 36 ---

3.  The proposed project is compatible with surrounding land uses and will not interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties because of the conditioned building design, site layout, materials, and circulation.
4.  The proposed project provides required off-street parking as per the LDC.
5.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land Development Code and the Municipal Code.
6.  400 South and 400 West provides access and are adequate in size and design to sufficiently handle all traffic modes and infrastructure related to the land use.

Moved: R. Croshaw          Seconded: E. Peterson                    Approved: 6-0

Yea: Lucero, Croshaw, Lewis, Guth, Peterson, Doutre     Nay:        Abstain:

PC 22-057 The Logan Silos [Design Review Permit] Tim Rodebush/Logan Silos LLC, authorized agent/owner are requesting a Design Review Permit to repurpose the existing site and structures. Phase one includes outdoor event space and two, two-story mixed-use buildings that will contain approximately 7,000 square feet of commercial space on the main floors and residential units on the 2nd floors located at 280 West 300 South in the Mixed Use (MU) zone; TIN 02-050-0012; -0007 (Woodruff Neighborhood).

STAFF: Tanya Rice, City Planner reviewed the request for a Design Review Permit to repurpose the structures at the vacant IFA Mill site, approximately 2 acres located at 280 West 300 South.  Phase one includes the repurposing of the two existing one-story buildings.  The 'Farmhouse' (A on the site plan) on the west side of the property will be remodeled to have two floors with commercial use on the main floor and two residential units on the 2nd floor.  The 'Barn' (E on the site plan) on the east side of the property will be remodeled to have two floors with commercial use on the main floor and six residential units on the 2nd floor.  There are also two existing and two proposed train cars (T) that will be repurposed for a mix of commercial and residential use which has not been designated yet.  Outdoor event space (G on the site plan) is being proposed surrounding the buildings and parking areas.

Using the max density allowed for this side, 44 parking stalls are required and 52 are proposed.  The site plan conforms with frontage and access, the existing structures do not meet the current setbacks but are considered to be grandfathered structures as long as the footprints of the buildings are not expanded with the development.  Any new structures will have to follow current setbacks.

The proposed site layout does not show pedestrian circulation and needs further development to show pedestrian connections throughout the development site, connection to future phases of development and pedestrian access points to 300 South and the city sidewalk.  Bike parking stalls will need to be added to the site plan as well.

The project site does not have existing landscaping, nor was there a landscape plan provided with the proposal. The site plan identifies 'Outdoor Event Space' (G on the site plan) which is shown in a drive aisle and parking area, and as such, does not count towards meeting the minimum open space requirements.  Staff is recommending that an overall performance landscape plan is submitted prior to

[site plan image — no text; labels: T1, T2, T1, A, Farmhouse, G, E, Barn, G, G]

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        8 | P a g e

--- page 37 ---

the first building permit specifically identifying open space, landscape plantings, usable outdoor areas, and public gathering areas.

The north and east facades of the single-story portion of the Farmhouse are visible from 300 South.  These façades show about 10% transparency.  As this is intended for retail space, staff recommends that the ground floor frontage transparency meet the 50% minimum requirement for the north elevation and 20% on the east.

There is little variation in color or materials throughout the exterior of the Barn building except for the floor-to-ceiling windows covering the former open bays.  Additional windows are added on the north elevation at about 25% transparency. As this is intended for commercial uses and the north side of the Barn is proposed as outdoor event space, staff recommends that the ground floor frontage transparency meet the 50% minimum requirement.  The east-facing ground level is proposed as a 100-foot solid wall that can be seen from 300 South. Staff recommends an additional 20% fenestration as required for exposed side elevations and to break up the 100-foot wall.

PROPONENT: Tim Rodebush said that all parking stalls could be located in the empty lot (phase 2) to the east of the proposed site so the open space could be located where the parking is currently proposed.  He is still waiting on engineering to determine if they can build on top of the existing structures.

PUBLIC:  Jeanie Simmonds asked about the proposed barn being a fertilizer shed and if there are any environmental concerns.  Asked if you can legally expand a non-conforming building and have it maintain its legal non-conforming status.  Mike DeSimone, Community Development Director said that a non-conforming structure can grow inward or upward without increasing the degree of non-conformity and therefore remain a legally existing non-conforming structure.

COMMISSION: Lucero said she is excited about this project and it's nice to see this historic site be repurposed.

The commission discussed continuing the project to see a pedestrian pathway plan.

MOTION: Commissioner Guth moved to Continue PC 22-057 to November 17, 2022. To review the requested pedestrian pathway plan.  Commissioner Doutre seconded the motion.

Moved: J. Guth          Seconded: S. Doutre                    Approved: 6-0

Yea: Lucero, Croshaw, Lewis, Guth, Peterson, Doutre     Nay:        Abstain:

PC 22-062 Zollinger Annexation [Annexation] Lance Zollinger & Guy Marker/Global Property 2000 LLC, authorized agent/owner are requesting the annexation of 18.93 acres, county parcels 04-076-0010 & 04-076-0011, located at approximately 1000 West 2000 North, into Logan City and are requesting that the zoning be Industrial Park (IP).

STAFF: Mike DeSimone, Community Development Director reviewed the annexation request for two parcels totaling 18.93 acres located at 1000 West 2000 North into logan, requesting to be part of the Industrial Park (IP) Zone.  The Future Land Use Plan (FLUP) shows this area as IP and the surrounding zones are IP.

PROPONENT: Guy Marker said that the intent for this property is Industrial, Commercial, and Warehousing.

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        9 | P a g e

--- page 38 ---

PUBLIC:  No public comments were made.

MOTION: Commissioner Peterson moved to forward a Recommendation of Approval to the Municipal Council for the annexation of PC 22-062 with the recommended findings for approval as listed below.  Commissioner Doutre seconded the motion.

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1.  The proposed Global Property Annexation request is a logical extension of Logan City boundaries.
2.  The annexation petition is consistent with the Logan General Plan.
3.  The annexation and future development of this site is compatible with neighboring land uses. The request to annex into Logan City as Industrial zoned property in this location is consistent with the General Plan and adjacent land uses.
4.  The site has access to municipal services and the City has the capacity available to serve this site.
5.  Any comments received from Affected Entities have been considered in the preparation of this annexation review and recommendation.
6.  All minimum public notification requirements established by Utah State Law have been met.

Moved: E. Peterson          Seconded: S. Doutre                    Approved: 6-0

Yea: Lucero, Croshaw, Lewis, Guth, Peterson, Doutre     Nay:        Abstain:

PC 22-060 Logan City 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan [Plan Amendment] Mike DeSimone/Logan City are requesting to amend the Logan General Plan to comply with UCA 10-9A-401 & 10-9A-403 by adopting the Logan City 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan.

STAFF/ PROPONENT: Mike DeSimone, Community Development Director reviewed the proposed Moderate Income Housing Plan that was presented at the October 13th workshop and reviewed the eight strategies recommended by the commission and the goals and timeline associated with those strategies.

PUBLIC:  No public comments were made.

COMMISSION: Doutre said that this is a great steppingstone for the general plan and it will be exciting to see what strategies are selected to be implemented.

MOTION: Commissioner Doutre moved to forward a Recommendation of Approval to the Municipal Council on PC 22-060, for the 2022 Moderate Income Housing Plan strategies goals and timelines.  Commissioner Croshaw seconded the motion.

Moved: S. Doutre          Seconded: R. Croshaw                    Approved: 6-0

Yea: Lucero, Croshaw, Lewis, Guth, Peterson, Doutre     Nay:        Abstain:

Meeting adjourned at 8:23 p.m

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        10 | P a g e

--- page 39 ---

Minutes approved as written and digitally recorded for the Logan City Planning Commission meeting on October 27, 2022.


_______________________________          _______________________________
Michael A. DeSimone                       Jessica Lucero
Community Development Director             Planning Commission Chairman


_______________________________
Amanda Pearce
Administrative Assistant

Planning Commission Minutes – October 27, 2022                                        11 | P a g e
