                                   CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 22-13

        AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
        LOGAN CITY, UTAH

        BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN,
        STATE OF UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

        SECTION 1: That certain code entitled "Land Development Code, City of Logan, Utah"
        Chapters 17.53 "Annexations" are amended as attached hereto as Exhibit A.

        SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.


        PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, _ __
        THIS DAY OF            , 2022.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

                                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair

ATTEST:



Teresa Harris, City Recorder



                               PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

       The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the _ _ day of                  , 2022.



                                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


                        MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

        The foregoing ordinance is hereby _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ this _       day of _ _ _ __
2022.


                                                        Holly H. Daines, Mayor
EXHIBIT A
CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                                                  June I, 2022 • Page 53-1

                                                                                    DRAFT 17.53: Annexations

                                 Chapter 17.53: Annexations
§17.53.010   Purpose
             The annexation requirements specified in this Chapter are intended to protect the general
             interests and character of the community; ensure orderly growth and expansion of Logan
             City; ensure the orderly and logical provision of public services and utilities to new
             development; protect the public health, safety and welfare; and ensure that annexations are
             approved consistent with the Logan City General Plan, the Logan City Annexation Policy
             Plan, and Utah State Law.

§17.53.020   General Requirements
             The following specific requirements are hereby established for annexation into Logan City.
             A. Property under consideration for annexation must be considered a logical extension of
                City boundaries.
             B. Annexation of property must be consistent with this Chapter, the Logan General Plan,
                and the Logan City Annexation Policy Plan.
             C. The piecemeal annexation of individual small properties shall be discouraged if larger
                contiguous parcels are avai lable for annexation within a reasonable timeframe to avoid
                repetitious annexations.
             D. The proposed annexation shall not create or leave islands of county jurisdiction, while
                peninsulas and irregular boundaries shall be avoided.
             E. Annexations shall generally follow existing roads, utilities, and property lines to
                minimize the public expense for extending main or service lines and streets.
             F. Annexation requests for parcels located along roadways shall include, at a minimum,
                the land to the centerline of the public roadway.
             G. If feasible and practical, public utilities shall be extended to the annexed area as soon as
                practicable after annexation. Expenses associated with such extension shall be the
                responsibility of the proponent. The City shall determine timing and capacity of
                 extending utilities and services as necessary for safe, reliable, and efficient provision of
                new services.
             H. The proponent shall include a disclosure of the anticipated needs of public utilities and
                 services and a timeline for new development.

§17.53.030   Property Owner Initiation of Annexation
             Logan City's policy is to allow property owners contiguous to City boundaries, absent
             some reasonable public interest, to be and remain in control of both the discretion as to
             whether to be annexed into the City, and the timing in conjunction with such annexation.
             When initiated by the property owner, the process for annexation shall be as follows:
             A. The property owner or owners shall submit to the City a petition for annexation in a
                form established by the City and in compliance with State Law. Said petition shall
                contain signatures of property owners representing a majority of the land area and at
                least one third (1/3) of the value ofreal property within the area proposed for
                annexation.
             B. The petition for annexation shall include a survey of the property to be annexed that is
                prepared by a surveyor licensed to practice in Utah. The annexation plat shall
                accurately describe the existing City boundaries, each individual ownership petitioning
                for annexation, and shall include an accurate legal description of the property to be
                annexed.
             C. There shall be attached to the annexation petition a statement as to the anticipated
                timetable for development of the property being annexed.
CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                                                June I, 2022 • Page 53-2

                                                                                  DRAFT 17.53 : Annexations

             D. Annexation petitions with a zoning request for any zone other than Resource
                Conservation (RC) are subject to review by the Planning Commission who will make a
                recommendation on the proposed zoning designation(s) to the City Council. The final
                zoning shall be the responsibility of the City Council and determined concurrently with
                the public hearing on the proposed annexation.

§17.53.040   Procedures for Annexation Petitions and Annexation Plats
             In addition to the procedures for processing annexation petitions set forth in Utah Code, the
             following procedures shall apply:
             A. After the City Recorder certifies the annexation petitions and prior to final City Council
                 action on the annexation petition, the annexation petition shall be referred to the
                 Director of Community Development for the following:
                  1. City Department Review. The annexation petition and annexation plat shall be
                      referred to the City Departments and their respective divisions for review.
                 2. Affected Entities Review. The annexation petition and annexation plat shall be
                      referred to the Logan School District, Bear River Health Department, Logan Cache
                      County Airport, Cache Metropolitan Planning Organization, Logan Downtown
                      Alliance, Cache County Assessor, Cache County Recorder, Cache County Clerk,
                      Cache County Development Services, Cache County Boundary Commission,
                      Cache County Fire District, Cache County School District, Cache Valley Transit
                      District, Cache Mosquito Abatement District, and any adjacent City potentially
                      affected by this petition for review.
                   3. Planning Commission. The annexation petition and annexation plat shall be
                      referred to the Planning Commission for review and consideration. The Planning
                      Commission shall hold a public hearing and make a recommendation on the
                      proposed zoning to the City Council.
                 4. Staff Recommendation. The Director of Community Development shall prepare a
                      staff recommendation for the City Council on the proposed annexation that
                      includes the following:
                      a. An accurate map of the proposed annexation area showing the boundaries,
                          property ownership, and significant critical lands;
                      b. Current and potential population of the annexation area;
                      c. Current and potential residential densities of the annexation area and the
                          immediate neighborhoods;
                      d. Existing land uses and development character of adjoining properties and
                          neighborhoods;
                      e. Current and proposed Future Land Use Plan Map designations;
                      f. Current and proposed zoning designations of immediate area and proposed
                          annexation area;
                      g. Statement as to how the proposed annexation area, and its proposed land uses,
                          would contribute to the achievement of the goals and policies of the Logan City
                          General Plan;
                      h. Assessed valuation of the current prope1ties;
                      1.  Anticipated demand for municipal services for the proposed annexation area;
                           1. Distances from existing utilities to property;
                           2. Distances to public schools, parks, commercial areas;
                           3. Traffic generated by expected land uses at buildout;
                           4. Assessment of service and capacity demands;
                           5. Any special requirements due to the presence of environmentally sensitive
                               areas.
CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                                            June I, 2022 • Page 53-3

                                                                              DRAFT 17 .53: Annexations
                  J.   Effect the annexation will have upon City boundaries and whether the
                       annexation will ultimately create a potential for islands, undesirable
                       boundaries, and difficult service areas;
                   k. A specific timetable for extending services to the area and how these services
                       would be financed;
                   I. Potential revenue generated by the proposal versus service costs;
                   m. An estimate of the tax consequences to residents of the annexation area;
                   n. Planning Commission recommendation;
                   o. Recommended zoning for the areas under consideration;
                   p. Recommendations or comments from City Departments or Affected Entities;
                   q. Findings substantiating whether the proposed annexation petition and
                       annexation plat comply with the requirements of this Chapter, Utah Code, and
                       the Logan City Annexation Policy Plan;
           B . After receipt of the recommendations from both the Director and the Planning
               Commission, and after giving notice pursuant to Section 10-2-406 of the Utah Code,
               the City Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed annexation. The City
               Council may either grant or deny the annexation petition.
