                                  CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 22-11

        AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
                             LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, STATE OF
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: That certain map or maps entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Ellis Neighborhood and as specifically identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Commercial (COM) & Commercial Service (CS) to
Mixed Use (MU)

SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

      PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UT AH, -                    -   -   -
THIS DAY OF             , 2022.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

                                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


ATTEST:

Teresa Harris, City Recorder


                               PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

       The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the _ _ day of                  , 2022.



                                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


                        MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

         The foregoing ordinance is hereby _ _ _ _ __ _ _ this_ day of _ _ _ __
2022.



                                                         Holly H. Daines, Mayor
EXHIBIT A
                                                           ~
                                        L@GAN  C ITY u N I T E D I N s E R V I C E
                                               COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

                                   PLANNING COMMISSION
                                          Meeting of July 14, 2022
  City Hall Municipal Council Chambers* 290 North 100 West* Logan, UT 84321 * www.loganutah.org


                                                  AGENDA
4:30 p.m. Bus Tour of Agenda Sites

5:30 p.m.

 I. WELCOME

11. APPROVAL OF MINUTES from the meeting of June 23, 2022

Ill. PUBLIC HEARING The following items are scheduled for a public hearing before the Commission.
    The order of the meeting is for the Chair to read the agenda item. Staff will summarize its report to the
    Commission. The proponent of the project can make a presentation. Public comment is encouraged.
    The Commission will close the public hearing and deliberate prior to a decision.


PC 22-033 Madden Short Term Rental -Continued from the June 23rd meeting [Conditional Use
Permit] Gregory & Carrie Madden are requesting a Conditional Use Permit to rent out a portion of
their home as a short-term rental located at 120 North 200 West in the Traditional Neighborhood
Residential (NR-6) zone ; TIN 06-021-0011 (Ellis Neighborhood).

PC 22-037 West Pointe Subdivision Amendment [Subd ivision Permit] Jeremy Raymond/Julie
Stoddard are requesting a Subdivision Permit for a five-lot subdivision to amend the current plat of the
West Pointe Condominiums. This project is located at 310 West 1400 North on 1.36 acres in the
Mixed Residential Medium (MR-20) zone; TIN 05-089-0001 ; -0002; -0003 ; -0004 ; -0005; -COMM
(Bridger Neighborhood).

PC 22-038 Land Development Code Amendment-Mixed Use, Chapters 17.10 & 17.34 [Code
Amendment] Mike DeSimone/Logan City are requesting a Code Amendment to the Land
Development Code to Chapter 17 .10.100 Mixed-Use Development Standards and Chapter 17 .34
Residential Density and Height Bonuses. The changes modify specific density, design &
development standards for projects in the mixed-use zones as well as establish a density bonus
program for mixed-use projects.

IV. UPCOMING AGENDA ITEMS

V. ADJOURN




            Notice displayed in the foyer of Logan City Hall, emailed to the Logan Herald Journal, and posted on the
            Logan City website www.loganutah.org and the State Public Meeting Notice website http://utah.gov/pmn
 In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations during this meeting should
                   notify the City Recorder, at 435-716-9002 , at least three working days prior to the meeting .
                                                  Agenda is subject to change




                                                      * * * * * * * *

 The Logan City Planning Commission is a quasi-judicial body established for purposes of reviewing applications for
 development as required by the Land Development Code. The Planning Commission is charged to carry out the
 growth and development policies of the Municipal Council as expressed in the General Plan and to implement the
 programs of the plan. The Commission functions as the approval body for certain planning and zoning matters, and
 reviews and recommends on legislative matters related to planning and zoning, in conformance with Utah law.
 As a quasi-judicial body, the decisions made by this body pertain only to matters proposed on the published agenda,
 upon consideration of facts, reports and testimony provided in evidence of a project. The Commission must rely on
 substantial evidence in determining whether a project complies with the law. Emotional pleas or personal opinions
 are not substantive evidence.
 Meetings are conducted at the discretion of the Commission, and we ask for your cooperation in maintaining the
 following:

     a)   Consideration of items will occur as indicated on the printed agenda, although the Commission reserves the
          right to alter the order if the need arises.
     b)   Those speaking are asked to keep comments relevant to the matter being considered.
     c)   Outbursts, including cheers, jeers, and applause are not appropriate as they may discourage those with
          opposing views from speaking.
     d)   Items involving a large number of people wishing to make comments, a time limit may be imposed.
     e)   Once the public comment portion for a particular item has been closed, no additional public comments are
          allowed, unless requested by the Commission.
     ~    Anyone wishing to speak is asked to sign in at the podium.
     g)   All public comment and questions will be made into the microphone at the podium to allow for recording of the
          proceeding.
     h)   The meeting is managed by the Chair. All questions/comments will be directed to the Commission.




           Notice displayed in the foyer of Logan City Hall, emailed to the Logan Herald Journal, and posted on the
           Logan City website www.loganutah.org and the State Public Meeting Notice website http://utah.gov/pmn
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing special accommodations during this meeting should
                  notify the City Recorder, at 435-716-9002, at least three working days prior to the meeting .
                               L®GAN  1
                                      \.   11 v1 uhllTED   N   ~ER.V1CE




                 MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
DATE:        April 21 , 2022
FROM :       Russ Holley , Senior Planner
SUBJECT:     Ordinance #22-11     1 oth West 2nd South Rezone



Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                               101h West 2 nd South Rezone
Request:                                    Map Amendment
Project Address:                            Northeast corner of 101h West 2 nd South
Recommendation of the Planning Commission : Approval

On April 14, 2022, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the
rezone.

Planning Commissioners vote (5-1 ):
Motion : Heare
Second : Peterson

Vote to recommend approval to City Council:
Yea : Guth, Heare, Lewis, Lucero , Peterson ,
Nay: Croshaw
Abstain : None

Attachments:
Ordinance #22-11
Staff Report & Project Slides
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
  PC 22-020 10th West and 2nd South Project - Rezone [Zone Change] Michael Jewell/Triiio
  QOZB II , LLC , authorized agent/owner, request a rezone of 31.39 acres from Commercial
  Services (CS) and Commercial (COM) to Mixed Use (MU) to create a multi-faceted development
  that will include townhomes, apartments , commercial , and retail space, located at approximately
  1000 West 200 South ; TIN 05-064-0013 ; -0028 , 06-002-0003 . (Ellis Neighborhood)


STAFF: R. Holley reviewed the request for a rezone of approximately 31 acres (three parcels) from
Commercial & Commercial Services to Mixed Use with the intent to develop a future mixed-use project.
All three properties are currently vacant and have historically been used for agricultural purposes. The
Future Land Use Plan shows this area as Mixed Use. The MU designation in the General Plan is
described as having high concentrations of commercial and residential uses. Structures would typically be
multi-story with projects laid out in a compact fashion that allows residents to work, play, and live all within
a walkable center.

The surround ing area currently has a wide range of commercial and industrial uses such as restaurants,
offices, light manufacturing , and storage . The Land Development Code (LDC) allows for up to 30
residential units per acre of land in the MU zone. It allows for a "horizontal" mixed-use pattern , which does
not require every building to contain ground floor commercial and upper-story residential but does
specifically require a minimum amount of commercial square footage . For 31 acres, a minimum of 7,500
SF of commercial space shall be provided. The MU zoning district permits a wide range of commercial
uses that include, but are not limited to , restaurants, offices , retail , hospitality, and personal commercial
services. The current zoning designation of COM & CS does not allow horizontal mixed-use buildings or
projects .

Given the proximity to existing single-family residential areas to the south and the light manufacturing
areas to the northeast, a mixed-use project may act as a transitional area or buffer between incompatible
land use areas . This location is adjacent to Logan City's gridded core , it offers better mobility and
transportation choices for future residents and puts less development pressure on the rural and
agricultural lands farther out into the valley .

When a commission or council contemplates a rezone, they need to evaluate the range of uses permitted
in that zone make sure they are comfortable with all options .

Commissioner Lucero asked if this area would be in the Ellis Elementary boundary. R. Holley said he
believes this area is in the Ellis Elementary boundary . It is in the Mt Logan Middle School , and Logan
High School Boundary.

Commissioner Lucero asked where the access to 1000 West would be . R. Holley said that UDOT will
allow an intersection every block (660 ft) onto 1000 West, so we can anticipate a stop sign intersection
onto 1000 West at Center Street and 130 South (to align with the existing 130 South street) . There will be
a stoplight intersection at 200 South and 1000 West.

PROPONENT: Michael Jewell talked about their vision and working with Urban Design Associates
to create a center that makes the neighborhood better, a walkable community that includes
residential , retail , restaurants, grocery stores , office space , parks , and open space .

PUBLIC: Jese Corbridge talked about the applicant's fantasy design proposal and how their proposed
connections to Center Street and 100 South are on adjacent property the applicant does not own .

COMMISSION: Commissioner Heare said he would like to look at the design review along with the zone
change to see where the connections would be. Commissioner Croshaw agreed . Commissioner Lucero
said that zone change should be looked at separately because a design could get approved but not get
completed , or the property sold , and a completely different design proposed .

M. DeSimone said that the accessibility is the same regardless of what zone it is. Any development that
goes in must account for what is next to it and must be able to connect to the future development to the
north .

Commissioner Heare stated that it is possible that after a rezone is approved this area could be
developed as all housing . That would add a huge burden on a neighborhood that is already burdened .

Commissioner Guth asked if there was a better zone option that would allow for mixed-use but have more
restrictions on residential. R. Holley said you could piecemeal this area with different zones, but that
would limit any master plan design options.

M. DeSimone said that you cannot rezone a property based on a project. You have to be comfortable
with all the allowed uses for that zone. The commission 's recommendation should be based on what is
allowed in the requested zoning , the surrounding zones , and the Future Land Use Plan . The General
Plan supports this rezone and that should be the biggest element that supports a decision of
recommending approval to the City Council.

The concern amongst the committee is the possibility of ending up with another residential development
like the one on 600 West and 200 North . There was also a discussion on changing the standards of the
Mixed-Use zone.

MOTION: Commissioner Heare moved to forward a recommendation of approval to the Municipal
Council on a Zone Change for PC 22-020 with the findings for approval as listed below. Commissioner
Peterson seconded the motion .

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1.     The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as MU .
2. This area is positioned along arterial streets with commercial uses and a mixed-use project will not
   negatively impact that character.
3.     Infrastructure and access are adequate to serve the future development of this property.
4.     Design incompatibles with surrounding areas can be mitigated through Design Review
   processes.
5.     The central location will better existing infrastructure and put less development pressure on
   surrounding rural areas.

Moved:         Seconded:             Approved: 5-1

Yea: Lucero, Guth , Lewis, Heare, Peterson        Nay: Croshaw             Abstain:
                            ~
LOGAN
    C! I~ U!'.'IT[G   t-4   HRII   ([
                                                    Project #22-020
                                              1oth West 2nd South Rezone
                                        Located at approx. 1000 West 200 South

REPORT SUMMARY ...
Project Name:                                101h West 2nd South Rezone
Proponent/Owner:                             Michael Jewell/ Triiio QOZB II, LLC
Project Address:                             Approx . 1000 West 200 South
Request:                                     Rezone from CS & COM to MU
Current Zoning:                              CS & COM
Date of Hearing:                             April 141h, 2022
Type of Action:                              Legislative
Submitted By:                                Russ Holley, Senior Planner

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend approval to the Municipal
Council for a rezone of approximately 31 .39 acres of property located at approximately 1000
West 200 South (TIN# 05-064-0013, 06-002-0003, 05-064-0028) from Commercial Service (CS)
and Commercial (COM) to Mixed Use (MU).


North:            COM : Vacant Land                      East:          CS : Commercial Uses
South:            NR-6: Residential Uses                 West:          CS: Commercial Uses

PROJECT
The proponent is requesting to rezone approximately 31-acres (three parcels) from COM & CS
to MU with the intent developing a future mixed-use project. All three properties are currently
vacant and have historically been used for agricultural purposes. The relatively flat land may
have critical land areas that could require further mitigation/assessment. The surrounding area
currently has a wide range of commercial and industrial uses such as restaurant, office, light
manufacturin , and stora e. Located to the southwest, sin le-famil nei hborhoods are found .




Figure 1 shows the approximate 31-acre site location northeast of 1000 West 200 South.
Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                           Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022
GENERAL PLAN
The Future Land Use Plan (FLUP), adopted in 2020, identifies all three properties as Mixed
Use. The MU designation in the General Plan is described as having high concentrations of
commercial and residential uses. Structures would typically be multi-story with projects laid-out
in a compact fashion that allows residents to work, play and live all within a walkable center.
The MU designation can be applied to encourage re-development, especially in areas that have
old or outdated one-story shopping centers.




LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
The Land Development Code (LDC) allows for up to 30 residential units per acre of land in the
MU zone. It allows for a "horizontal" mixed use pattern , which does not require every building to
contain ground floor commercial and upper story residential but does specifically require a
minimum amount of commercial square footage. For 31 acres, a minimum of 7,500 SF of
commercial space shall be provided . The Design Review process will ensure compliance and
proper placement of commercial square footages. The MU zoning district permits a wide range
of commercial uses that include, but are not limited , restaurants, offices, retail , hospitality, and
personal commercial services. The current zoning designation of COM & CS does not allow
horizontal mixed-use buildings or projects.

ZONING HISTORY
Annexed into Logan City in approximately 1983. 1983-1999 areas were zoned M 1
(Manufacturing). From 2000-2020, zoned COM (Commercial) . In 2020, approximately half of the
project site was zoned to CS (Commercial Service) for a commercial storage unit facility.




Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                  Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022

                                              2
    ,              ..     -         -   j


Figure 2 shows the current zoning in the area


SUMMARY
Given the proximity to existing single family residential areas to south and the light
manufacturing areas to the northeast, a mixed-use project may act as transitional area or buffer
between incompatible land use areas. A large comprehensive project on this site can be
designed in a better manner than that of smaller projects, and would result in improved layout
and traffic circulation , consolidated usable open space and strategic commercial/residential
interfacing. This location which is adjacent to Logan City's gridded core , offers better mobility
and transportation choices for future residents and puts less development pressure on the rural
and agricultural lands farther out into the valley . Being considered an infill project, infrastructure
and utilities can be more efficiently utilized as compared to outer fringe areas (sprawl) that
excessively burden the transportation and infrastructure networks with poor logistics, higher
vehicle miles driven, and lengthier pipes and utility lines.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
No comments .

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of
this report, one comment from Frank Schofield has been received .

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 04/02/22, posted on the City's website
and the Utah Public Meeting website on 04/04/22, and mailed to property owners within 300 feet
on 03/28/22. The quarter page ad was published on 3/31/22.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
The Planning Commission bases its decision on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
   1. The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as MU .
   2. This area is positioned along arterial streets with commercial uses and a mixed use
       project will not negatively impact that character.
   3. Infrastructure and access are adequate to serve the future development of this property.


Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                   Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022

                                                3
      4. Design incompatibles with surrounding areas can be mitigated through Design Review
         processes.
      5. The central location will better existing infrastructure and put less development pressure
         on surrounding rural areas .


  This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents. standard city development practices. and available information. The report is to be used
  to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting. Additional information may be revealed by
  participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development
  reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional information at the Planning Commission meeting.




Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                                                       Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022

                                                                              4
                1otl1    est 211d S011tl1 Rezo11e
                        -1000 ,vest 200 South




Planning Commission                       April Lt. 2022
                1otl1   est 211d S0t1tl1 Rezo11e
                        -1000 '1\Test 200 South




Planning Commission                               April 1..1. 202.2
                     1otl1 West 211d S0t1tl1 Rezo11e
                            -1000 \,\Test 200 South




Plan.n:ing Conm'li.s.sion                             }\pr il 4 . 2022
