                                                    ~
                                  L@GAN    IIYuNITED IN SERVICE

                                          COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

                   MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
DATE:          May 3, 2022
FROM:          Mike DeSimone, Director
SUBJECT:       Ordinance #22-08 (Logan Municipal Code Amendments - Chapter 5.15)



Included with this memo is Ordinance 22-08 which is the proposed amendments to the Logan Municipal
Code Chapter 5.15 regarding Short Term Rentals. The language in red reflects updates made in response
to questions at the workshop regarding the length of time for an owner of a short term rental to respond to
complaints or problems. I also included a provision that an owner of a short term rental shall provide
copies of the Conditional Use Permit, the short term rental license, and the designated local contact
information to both residents and landowners within 300' of the site. This shall occur within 10 days of
obtaining the final license and helps to inform neighboring residents (owners and renters) about the
presence of a short term rentals near them and who to call if they experience problems with noise, excess
parking , garbage, etc. , associated with the short term rental.

In summary , the proposed Chapter 5.15 in the Logan Municipal Code establishes the following :

    •   An annual business license is required to conduct a short term rental in the City
    •   Minimum license application requirements & submittals
    •   Licensing fees (Proposed $75.00 new/$50.00 renewal)
    •   Annual license renewal requirements
    •   Requires a designated local contact
    •   Requires posting of rental license in unit
    •   Limitation on total numbers of short term rental licenses- 3/1 ,000 population , annual adjustments,
        waiting lists, sales & transfer of property , new licenses
    •   Minimum requirements - meets building codes, CUP required , surrounding property notification
    •   Minimum inspections - one at time of application & as needed
    •   Penalties - 3 violations & loss of license

The effective date is June 1, 2022 for these changes which will give my staff time to get the application
materials put together.

Any questions, let me know.

Attachments:
Ordinance #22-08
  Attachment 1
Ordinance #22-08
                                 CITY OF LOGAN, UT AH
                                 ORDINANCE NO. 22-08


  AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS OF LOGAN MUNICIPAL CODE
              REGARDING SHORT TERM RENTALS


        WHEREAS, the state legislature has granted general welfare power to the City
Council, independent, apart from, and in addition to, its specific grants of legislative
authority, which enables the City of Logan to pass ordinances as are necessary and proper
to provide for the safety, promote the prosperity, improve the peace and good order,
comfort, and convenience of the city and its inhabitants, and for the protection of
property in the city; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-1-203, a municipality may license for
the purpose of regulation and revenue any business within the limits of the municipality
and may regulate that business by ordinance; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the following ordinance is in
the City's best interest;

     NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:


SECTION 1:

                                      Chapter 5 .15
                                  SHORT TERM RENTALS


5.15.010. Definitions.
5.15.020. Purpose.
5.15.030. License Required.
5.15.040. License Application.
5.15.050. License Fee.
5 .15. 060. License Renewal.
5.15.070: Local Property Manager Required.
5.15.080: Required Posting.
5.15 .090: Limitation on Total Number of Short Term Rental Licenses.
5.15.100: Minimum Requirements.
5.15.110. Inspections.
5.15.120. Penalties.


5.15.010: DEFINITIONS: In addition to the definitions set forth in section 5.02.020 of this title,
the following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings prescribed in this
chapter:
SHORT TERM RENTAL: Temporary lodging typically located in a residential dwelling for
charge or fee and for a rental period of less than 30 continuous days. A short term rental excludes
hotels, motels, or bed & breakfast establishments.

5.15.020: PURPOSE

The purpose of this chapter is to accomplish the following:

A.      To promote the public health, safety and welfare by requiring short-term rental to be safe
        and fit for human occupancy;

B.      To provide contact information, through licensing, for each short-term rental to allow
        problems to be resolved expeditiously; and

C.      To provide consistency with licensing of all other businesses in the city by requiring
        licensing of short-term rentals.

5.15.030: LICENSE REQUIRED

A.      It is unlawful for any person or firm to keep, conduct, operate or maintain a short-term
        rental within the city without a business license.

B.      A business license for a short-term rental is not transferable. Any owner holding a license
        shall give written notice within thirty (30) days to the business license official after
        having transferred or otherwise disposed of legal or equitable control of any short-term
        rental. Such notice of transferred interest shall include the name, address, and information
        regarding the person(s) or entity succeeding to the ownership or control thereof. The new
        owner shall obtain a business license within 30 days of the date of purchase and as
        required by this Chapter.

5.15.040: LICENSE APPLICATON

An application for a short term rental business license shall conform to the requirements of
Section 5.02.050 of this title and shall include the following additional information:

A.      A detailed floor plan drawn to scale with labels on rooms indicating uses or proposed
        uses;

B.      A detailed site plan identifying location and numbers of off-street parking spaces;

C.      A copy of the Utah State tax license number for remittance of transient lodging taxes;

D.      The name and contact information of the owner, and if applicable, the designated local
        contact, residing in the state of Utah, who is authorized by the owner for service of
        process.

E.      If located in a residential zone, a copy of the Conditional Use Permit issued by Logan
        City for the short term vacation rental.

5.15.050: LICENSE FEE

A.      The fee for a short-term rental license shall be as set forth in the consolidated fee
        schedule adopted by the municipal council.
B.      The business license shall be paid annually and shall be due and payable on or before the
        license expiration date of owner' s application for a business license. A license shall be
        delinquent if paid after said date in the year for which it is due.

5.15.060: LICENSE RENEW AL

A.      A renewal application for a business license shall conform to the requirements of Section
        5.02.050 of this title. The owner shall include with their renewal application evidence that
        minimum Utah State Sales Tax and Transient Taxes were submitted for the prior year.

B.      Failure to renew the business license within 30 days of the license expiration date may
        result in revocation of the license and subject the property to the license limitations in
        Section 5.15.090.

5.15.070: LOCAL CONTACT/PROPERTY MANAGER REQUIRED

. .,A,.,_._ _ All short-term rental properties shall have a designated local contact or property manager
              that resides within one (1) hour travel time of the property. The property owner shall
              provide the registered local contact person ' s contact information at the time of
              registration. A property owner may contract with a private security company that is
              licensed to conduct business with the City to act as the designated local contact. The local
              contact shall be available twenty-four (24) hours per day to respond to questions or
              concerns.

B.      Upon receipt of a notification regarding a complaint, the designated local contact shall
        contact the occupant of the short term rental and resolve the issue giving rise to the
        complaint. The designated local contact shall have 60 minutes from the time of
        notification of a complaint to resolve the problem giving rise to the complaint. Failure to
        resolve the problem within 60 minutes shall constitute a violation of this code unless the
        designated local contact can demonstrate that they contacted the occupant of the short
        term rental within 60 minutes and attempted to resolve the problem but were unable to do
        so. In that event, the designated local contact shall visit the short term rental property to
        address the problem and resolve the complaint ifreasonably possible within 60 minutes
        thereafter.

C.      Failure to resolve any complaints to the Department of Community Development as
        required in this Section, may be a violation of this Chapter and may be cause for the
        issuance of enforcement action, administrative fines and potential termination of
        licensing pursuant to Section 5.15.120. Violations of this Section shall be considered
        separate and independent from any violation of any other provision of Chapter 5.15 or of
        the Land Development Code. The City may take enforcement action against a short-term
        rental for any violation of this Section separately from and in addition to any enforcement
        action taken to address the violation underlying the complaint, if any.

5.15.080: REQUIRED POSTING

The following information must be posted in a clear, concise, and unambiguous manner in a
conspicuous location inside all short term rentals:

A.      A copy of the short term rental license.

B.      The name, address, and phone number of the owner and/or property manager.

C.      Emergency exit plan and the location of all fire extinguishers.
D.      A list of all rules applicable to short term rentals.

E.      The maximum occupancy of the short term rental, the maximum number of vehicles
        allowed, and the location of all parking stalls.

5.15.090: LIMITATION ON TOTAL NUMBER OF SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSES

The total number of short term rental licenses issued shall be limited in accordance with the
following:

A.      The maximum number of short term rental licenses issued citywide shall be proportionate
        to the total population of the City and is limited to three (3) licenses for every 1,000 of
        total population.

B.      The total number of licenses available each year shall be re-calculated based on the City' s
        most current population as of July I st using the American Community Survey (ACS)
        data, U.S. Census data, or official State of Utah population numbers.

C.      If, after the maximum number of licenses has been issued, an application meeting all
        other requirements for issuance of a license shall be placed on a waiting list in order of
        the date of receipt. No fees will be due until a license becomes available. When a license
        becomes available, the first applicant on the waiting list shall be notified of the license
        availability, and the applicant shall have 30 days from the date of such notice to file an
        updated & complete application, pay the filing fee, and 60 days to complete the licensing
        process. In the event that the applicant fails to file a complete application and filing fee
        within 30 days or fails to complete the licensing process within 60 days, the application
        shall be deemed to have expired, and the next applicant will be notified of the license
        availability, and the same procedure shall apply.

D.      In the event of a sale or other transfer of any property containing a dwelling licensed as a
        short term vacation rental, the purchaser or transferee of the property shall be required to
        apply for a new license within 30 days of the date of purchase. In the event that the
        purchaser or transferee fails to apply for a new license within said 30 days, the license
        will be forfeited, and the owner must reapply for any available license or be placed on the
        waiting list.

5.15.100: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS

A.      Each short term rental unit shall meet the zoning and building code requirements for
        installation, maintenance, and operation in effect at the time the short-term rental unit
        was legally permitted.

B.      Each sleeping room must meet current international code requirements for egress and be
        equipped with smoke and CO2 detectors. A fire exiting plan and maximum occupancy
        number must be posted in each sleeping room.

C.      A Conditional Use Permit shall be issued for all short term rentals in residential zones
        prior to the issuance of a business license.

D.      Each short term rental shall comply with the noise standards in LMC Chapter 8.16 Sound
        and Vibration. Quiet hours shall be established, posted, and enforced for the short term
        rental and which shall be between the hours of 10 p.m. and 8 a.m .
E.     The short term rental owner and designated local contact, upon notification that the short
       term rental occupants and/or their guests have created unreasonable noise or disturbances
       or violated provisions of the Logan Municipal Code pertaining to noise or disorderly
       conduct, will promptly act within sixty (60) minutes to prevent continuation and/or a
       recurrence of such conduct by those short term rental occupants and/or their guests.

F.     No later than IO days following the issuance of a short term rental license, the property
       owner shall disseminate the designated local contact information, a copy of the
       Conditional Use Permit, and a copy of the short term rental license to all properties
       located within a 300 foot radius of the short term rental. The property owner shall also
       mail the same information to each property owner of record as listed with the Cache
       County Assessor' s office within the 300 foot radius. Proof of mailing and a copy of the
       information sent to residents and adjoining property owners shall be provided to
       Community Development within 14 days of mailing.

5.15.110: INSPECTIONS

Inspections of short-term rental units may be conducted pursuant to Chapter 5.02.090, Logan
Municipal Code.

A.     The City or other authorized agency shall conduct a life safety inspection of the short
       term rental at the time of application for the initial short term rental license. License
       renewals will not automatically require subsequent re-inspections unless subsection
       5.15.11 O.B necessitates additional re-inspections.

B.     The City or other authorized agency shall be permitted to make an inspection of any
       short-term rental unit to enforce any part of this title or any other applicable statute or
       ordinance if the short-term rental unit has a recorded and valid complaint. Complaints
       may be submitted by any person including a city employee.

C.     Except in emergencies, as determined by the city, the business license official shall make
       a reasonable effort to make an appointment with the owner or other responsible person at
       least one week in advance of the inspection. The owner or other responsible person shall
       inform the occupant(s) of the short-term rental unit of the appointed time of inspection. If
       an appointment cannot be arranged after a reasonable effort or if the appointment is not
       attended by the owner or other responsible person, an inspector or other authorized agent
       of the city may enter the building or may enter upon the premises during regular business
       hours if an occupant consents to the inspector entering the property.

D.     No owner, occupant, or any other person having charge, care, or control of any building
       or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to
       properly permit entry therein by the business license official or their designee for the
       purpose of inspection and examination to ensure compliance with this title. If the
       property owner or other responsible person refuses to allow an inspection, the business
       license official or their designee may obtain and execute an administrative search
       warrant.

5.15.120: PENALTIES

A.     Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B
       misdemeanor and may also be subject to enforcement action pursuant to section 17.60 of
       the Logan City Administrative Enforcement Code.
B.     In the event of three or more violations of this Chapter or the Logan City Land
       Development Code committed by an owner or guest, or any combination of the two,
       within any 12-month period, the City may, depending on the nature or extent of the
       violations, proceed with revocation of the short term rental license for any short term
       rental property in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5.02 of the Logan Municipal
       Code.


SECTION 2: Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective June 1, 2022.


ADOPTED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL THIS _ _ DAY OF _ __
_ _ , 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

                                                   Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair



ATTEST:
Teresa Harris, City Recorder


                             PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

      The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the
Mayor for approval or disapproval this       day of           , 2022.




                                                       Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair




                     MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL


   The foregoing ordinance is hereby approved this _ _ _ day of _ __
_ _ ,2022.




                                                       Holly Daines, Mayor
