                  MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
DATE:         February 15, 2022
FROM:         Tanya Rice, Planner II
SUBJECT:      Ordinance #22-06 West Pointe Subdivision Rezone



Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                              West Pointe Subdivision Rezone
Request:                                   Rezone from MR-12 to MR-20
Project Address:                           310 East 1400 North
Recommendation of the Planning Commission: Denial

On February 10, 2022, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council deny the West
Pointe Subdivision Rezone.

Planning Commissioners vote (7-0):
Motion: Goodlander
Second: Lucero

Vote to recommend denial to City Council:
Yea: Dickinson, Croshaw, Guth, Heare, Lewis, Lucero, Goodlander,
Nay: None
Abstain: None

Attachments:
Ordinance #22-06
Staff Report & Project Slides (PC#22-001)
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
                                   CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 22-06

  AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF LOGAN
                              CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, STATE OF
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: That certain map or maps entitled “Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Bridger Neighborhood and as specifically identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Mixed Residential
Medium (MR-20).

SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

      PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, _________
THIS DAY OF _______________, 2022.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

                                                         Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


ATTEST:
________________________________
Teresa Harris, City Recorder


                               PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

       The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the ____ day of _______________, 2022.


                                                   _______________________________
                                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


                        MAYOR’S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

        The foregoing ordinance is hereby ___________________ this ___ day of _____________,
2022.

                                                   ________________________________
                                                         Holly H. Daines, Mayor
EXHIBIT A
                                                   Project #22-001
                                            West Pointe Subdivision Rezone
                                            Located at 310 West 1400 North

REPORT SUMMARY…
Project Name:                                    West Pointe Subdivision Rezone
Proponent/Owner:                                 Jeremy S. Raymond, Olson & Hoggan, LLC / Julie Stoddard,
                                                 President of West Pointe Subdivision HOA
Project Address:                                 310 West 1400 North
Request:                                         Rezone from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Mixed Residential
                                                 Medium (MR-20) and Subdivision
Current Zoning:                                  MR-12
Date of Hearing:                                 February 10, 2022
Type of Action:                                  Legislative
Submitted By:                                    Tanya Rice, Planner II

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend denial to the Municipal Council
for a Rezone of approximately 1.36 acres of property located at approximately 310 W 1400 N
(TIN# 05-089-0001, 05-089-0002, 05-089-0003, 05-089-0004, 05-089-0005, 05-089-COMM,)
from MR-12 to MR-20.

Land use adjoining the subject property
North:    CS: Commercial Services                             East:         MR-12: Mixed Residential Uses
South:    NR-6: Residential Uses                              West:         MR-12: Mixed Residential Uses

SITE HISTORY
West Pointe Condominiums (West Pointe) is a 1.36-acre condominium complex consisting of
five (5) buildings at 310 West 1400 North. The five (5) buildings are each individually owned
with co-ownership of the land maintained and governed by the five building owners via the West
Pointe Homeowners Association (HOA). Each of the five buildings are fourplexes, totaling 20
dwelling units in the complex. The remaining areas of the complex are designated as common
areas.

This complex is originally known as Lot 2 of 6 of the 1992 Royal Pointe Subdivision. At the time
of the initial Royal Pointe subdivision when Lot 2 was legally created, the property was zoned
R4 which permitted 19.5 units per acre. The 1.36-acre site would have been allowed up to 26
units. Twenty (20) units were constructed on Lot 2, and in 1994, the West Pointe Condominiums
were created through a condominium plat rather than a legal subdivision. The result has been a
subdivision of ownership & improvements that the City has not recognized as a legal subdivision
of land. Since 1994, the zoning has changed twice and is currently zoned MR-12 (12 units per
acre). The current zoning would permit 16 units on the 1.36-acre site.




Project #22-001 West Pointe Subdivision Rezone                  Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of February 10, 2022

                                                          1
             Figure 1 shows the project request area


PROJECT PROPOSAL
The proponent is requesting a rezone from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Mixed Residential
Medium (MR-20) in order to subdivide the 1.36-acre complex of buildings. The intent is to
change the nature of the land & improvements from a “condominium” where only the buildings
are individually owned, to a condition where an owner owns both the building and the land
underneath. The underlying purpose of the rezone and subdivision is to legitimize the current
division of improvements & ownership, tie those improvements & ownership to the real property
located underneath, and make the properties easier to market and sale. An HOA, or similar
entity, would still be required to own and maintain the common areas, e.g., driveways, open
space, etc. A rezone is required to legally subdivide the overall site because the current unit
count exceeds the allowable density under the current MR-12 zone. The proposed rezone
would permit up to 27 units on the 1.36-acre site.

GENERAL PLAN
The property is currently designated as MR in the Future Land Use Plan (FLUP). The General
Plan, a nonregulatory visioning plan, describes Mixed Residential (MR) areas as being intended
for all stages of life and levels of income. MR areas are located near employment centers and
service areas allowing walkability and transportation choices. MR zones range from 9-30
dwelling units per acre.




         Figure 2 - Future Land Use Map



Project #22-001 West Pointe Subdivision Rezone             Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of February 10, 2022

                                                       2
LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE - ZONING
The Land Development Code (LDC) regulates land uses and entitles properties with specific
development allowances. The Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) zoning district (current zoning
designation) is a low-density multi-family zone permitting a maximum density of 12 dwelling
units per acre. Building heights are limited to 35 feet and lot coverage is capped at 40%. A total
of 30% of the site is required to be set aside for open space and outdoor amenity space. This
density functions as an appropriate transition between residential areas and commercial centers
or higher density complexes.

The Mixed Residential Medium (MR-20) zoning district (requested zoning designation) is a
multi-family zone permitting a maximum density of 20 dwelling units per acre. Building heights
are limited to 45 feet and lot coverage is capped at 60%. A total of 30% of the site is required to
be set aside for open space and outdoor amenity space. Structures in this zone include a
mixture of housing types including town houses, apartments, and stacked housing developed at
20 dwelling units per acre.




Figure 3 shows the proposed MR-20 zoning with the surrounding existing zoning


NEIGHBORHOOD COMPATIBILITY
The proposed up-zone to MR-20 is located adjacent to a single-family residential area zoned
NR-6, other multi-family complexes zoned MR-12, and a mixture of commercial and light
industrial uses located in the CS zone across 1400 North. There are not any other MR-20 zoned
properties in the immediate vicinity.

The MR-12 and MR-20 zones are generally similar in design and development standards except
the MR-20 allows for more intensive development patterns with taller buildings, greater lot
coverages, and higher densities. There are no other MR-20 zoned properties within the
immediate area, so increased densities on this site would be incompatible with neighboring
single-family residential areas to the south as well as other development patterns in the vicinity.
Both the multi-family and single-family residential areas were developed during the same period
of time (1994). Adding additional units immediately adjacent changes the overall character.
Rezoning this site could lead to similar requests of the adjacent properties in Royal Pointe. The
Bridger Neighborhood contains a high percentage of density, multi-family residential
development which has negatively impacted the elementary school with high rates of transiency
and has contributed to the high rate of transient occupancy. Because the Bridger Neighborhood
contains a very high percentage of multi-family residential, the City has authorized a number of
Project #22-001 West Pointe Subdivision Rezone             Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of February 10, 2022

                                                    3
zoning actions to “downzone” Bridger to prevent additional, high-density projects. Rezoning
properties to increase the potential density and unit counts is detrimental to the overall
neighborhood, the school district, and is contrary to the goals of the Bridger Neighborhood. Staff
recommends that this property remain MR-12 zoning.

SUBDIVISION
The owners of the West Pointe Condominiums have enjoyed the benefits of having a
subdivision without meeting any of the requirements to be legally created and subdivided. Now,
because of the difficulties in marketing and selling these improvements & ownership, the
applicant is requesting the City grant an “after the fact” subdivision making it more convenient
for them. Staff’s recommendation is that the City deny the proposed subdivision and the
proposed rezone.

However, if the Planning Commission and City Council view this request differently, the
subdivision of the condominiums is contingent upon the approval of the rezone. The proposed
subdivision would be inconsistent with the current zoning. If the rezone is denied, the
subdivision is also denied. If the rezone is approved, compliance with the subdivision and
zoning standards in MR-20 shall also be met. As a developed site, the expectation is that the
subdivision and resulting lots will need to meet minimum zoning setbacks, parking requirements
for each building, and minimum open space requirement. As the subdivision is currently
proposed, minimum setbacks and open space requirements are not met but can be conditioned.
As conditioned, a subdivision permit could be granted.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
No comments have been received.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of
this report, one comment had been received.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were posted on the City’s website and the Utah Public Meeting website on
1/3/2022, published in Herald Journal in a quarter page ad on 12/30/2021, Legal Notice
published in the Herald Journal on 1/2/2022, and a Public Notice mailed to property owners
within 300’ were sent on 12/27/2021.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR DENIAL of REZONE
The Planning Commission bases its decision on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
   1. The existing zoning (MR-12) is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. The
       proposed zoning (MR-20) is incompatible with the Bridger Neighborhood.
   2. This land was originally developed as a multi-family condominium complex and has
       functioned as such for 28 years.
   3. The change in zoning for a single parcel, in this neighborhood, is contrary to the
       neighborhood stabilization goals and policies of the Logan General Plan, especially
       when there are no other parcels zoned MR-20 in the immediate vicinity.
   4. Changing the zone from MR-12 to MR-20 is inconsistent with previous zoning actions in
       this area.

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL of SUBDIVISION if rezone is approved
This project is subject to the proponent or property owner agreeing to comply with the following
conditions as written, or as may be amended by the Planning Commission.
    1. All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Subdivision Permit and
        are available in the Community Development Department.
Project #22-001 West Pointe Subdivision Rezone       Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of February 10, 2022

                                                 4
     2. Five (5) lots are approved with this subdivision permit.
     3. All building setbacks shall comply with the MR-20 zone and shall be reviewed and
        approved prior to final plat approval.
     4. Two parking stalls per unit will be included within each lot.
     5. The overall open space shall comply with the MR-20 zone requirements.
     6. The final plat shall be recorded within one (1) year of this action.
     7. An HOA, or similar management entity, shall be established to maintain all common
        areas.
     8. Cross access easements shall be granted for access, parking, open space, and utilities.


  This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents, standard city development practices, and available information. The report is to be used
  to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting. Additional information may be revealed by
  participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development
  reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional information at the Planning Commission meeting.




Project #22-001 West Pointe Subdivision Rezone                                          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of February 10, 2022

                                                                              5
February 10, 2022
Current zoning
ZONING
• 1994 – R4
    • 19.5 Units/acre
    • 26 Units on 1.36 ac
• Current – MR-12
    • 12 Units/acre
    • 16 Units on 1.36 ac
• Proposed Rezone – MR-20
    • 20 Units/acre
    • 27 Units on 1.36 ac
Neighborhood Incompatibility

• Allow for 27 units on parcel in otherwise MR-12
  surroundings

• No other MR-20 in the surrounding area

• Single Family zone to the south

• Bridger Neighborhood contains a high percentage of
  multi-family residential development

• Previous negative impact on the elementary school
  due to high rate of transient occupancy.

• Logan City authorized zoning actions to “downzone”
  Bridger to prevent additional, high-density projects.
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes – February 10, 2022

 PC 22-001 West Pointe Subdivision Rezone -Continued from the January 13th meeting
 [Subdivision Permit & Zone Change] Jeremy S Raymond, Olsen & Hoggan LLC/Julie Stoddard,
 HOA President of West Pointe Subdivision, authorized agent/owner are requesting a zone
 change of the 1.36-acre condominium subdivision from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to
 Mixed Residential Medium (MR-20) in order to amend the existing plat to remove any reference
 to ‘condominiums’ and subdivide into 5 parcels. The project is located at 310 West 1400 North;
 TIN: 05-089-0001; - 0002; -0003; -0004; -0005. (Bridger Neighborhood)

STAFF: T. Rice reviewed the request for a rezone from Mixed Residential Low (MR-12) to Mixed
Residential Medium (MR-20) in order to subdivide the 1.36-acre complex of buildings. A rezone is
required to legally subdivide the overall site because the current unit count (20 units) exceeds the
allowable density under the current MR-12 zone. The intent is to change the nature of the land &
improvements from a “condominium” where only the buildings are individually owned, to a condition
where an owner owns both the building and the land underneath. The purpose of the rezone and
subdivision is to legitimize the current division of improvements & ownership, tie those improvements
& ownership to the real property located underneath, and make the properties easier to market and
sell. An HOA, or similar entity, would still be required to own and maintain the common areas, e.g.,
driveways, open space, etc. The proposed rezone to MR-20 would permit up to 27 units on the 1.36-
acre site. MR-20 is not compatible with the neighboring areas and staff is recommending denial
based on best planning practices of not up zoning when a property has been intentionally downzoned
over the years.

The subdivision of the condominiums is contingent upon the approval of the rezone. The proposed
subdivision would be inconsistent with the current zoning. If the rezone is denied, the subdivision is
also denied. If the rezone is approved, compliance with the subdivision and zoning standards in MR-
20 shall also be met. As a developed site, the expectation is that the subdivision and resulting lots will
need to meet minimum zoning setbacks, parking requirements for each building, and minimum open
space requirement. As the subdivision is currently proposed, minimum setbacks and open space
requirements are not met but can be conditioned. As conditioned, a subdivision permit could be
granted.

PROPONENT: Jeremy Raymond, Attorney with Olsen and Hoggan, stated that the purpose of the
rezone and subdivision is to allow the property to be packaged in a more marketable manner. It is
difficult to get lending and insurance on condominiums. There will be no impacts to any of the
neighboring properties, this will simply make the property a legal conforming subdivision. He
mentioned the city putting restrictions on the property or submitting a request for a downzone after
the final plat is recorded.

Commissioner Goodlander asked how the ownership of the property is structured. Jeremy
Raymond stated that each of the 5 buildings is separately owned along with 1/5 of the common
area.

Guth asked if any of the neighboring property owners are experiencing the same issues. Jeremy
Raymond stated that out of the 5 or 6 parcels along the street there were two that we're able to
acquire more land to create a legal subdivision. Kymber Housley, City Attorney, stated that the
owners made a conscious decision at the time they developed to develop the units onto one lot and
over the years they have realized the disadvantages in doing so. Jeremy Raymond mentioned that
it was not the current owners that made the decision. Commissioner Heare asked if the current
zoning is keeping the condominiums from being sold. K. Housley stated that the zoning is not
keeping them from being sold, it is only restricting the property from being subdivided.
PUBLIC: Nate Welker, Owner of one of the buildings. Stated that there are simply trying to codify what is
there and better manage the existing units.

COMMISSION: Commissioner Lucero asked about recommending a deed restriction with the rezone and
what that would look like. K. Housley said that the restriction would allow for 16 units per acre on the
parcel. The deed restriction would be proposed to the City Council along with the rezone and if approved,
they would both be filed at the same time.

Commissioner Lewis asked if there is a downside to doing a deed restriction. Mike DeSimone,
Community Development Director, said there aren’t any downsides, this is just a way for them to get what
they want without the possibility of the number of units increasing. R. Holley said that if the applicant
applied for a down zone directly after the subdivision was complete it would prevent a spot zone in the
middle of this neighborhood zone. If the applicant did not apply for the downzone the city could then
initiate it. Commissioner Lucero asked if a deed restriction would carry forward with a new owner. K.
Housley stated that the deed restriction would run with the land.

Commissioner Croshaw asked what happened if the boundary lines are not adjusted for a subdivision. R.
Holley said that if they do not meet the required setbacks and open space the final plat cannot be
recorded.

Commissioner Goodlander stated that she is leaning towards leaving it the way it is. It does not make
sense to go through all the steps. Commissioner Lucero agreed with commissioner Goodlander.
Commissioner Guth stated that she is not opposed if this can also benefit the city. Commissioner Hear
said it is not the commission’s place to solve the organization of their condominium association. Most of
the units have been owned by the same owner since this property was established. Commissioner Lewis
and Commissioner Croshaw agreed.

MOTION: Commissioner Goodlander moved to forward a recommendation of denial to the Municipal
Council on a zone change for PC 22-001. If the zone change is approved a subdivision permit for PC 22-
001 is approved with the amended conditions of approval and the findings for approval listed below.
Commissioner Lucero seconded the motion.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR DENIAL– Zone Change
1.     The existing zoning (MR-12) is compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. The proposed
   zoning (MR-20) is incompatible with the Bridger Neighborhood.
2.     This land was originally developed as a multi-family condominium complex and has functioned as
   such for 28 years.
3.     The change in zoning for a single parcel, in this neighborhood, is contrary to the neighborhood
   stabilization goals and policies of the Logan General Plan, especially when there are no other parcels
   zoned MR-20 in the immediate vicinity.
4.     Changing the zone from MR-12 to MR-20 is inconsistent with previous zoning actions in this area.

CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL- Subdivision (if rezone is approved)
1. All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Subdivision Permit and are available in
   the Community Development Department.
2.      Five (5) lots are approved with this subdivision permit.
3.      All building setbacks shall comply with the MR-20 zone and shall be reviewed and approved
   prior to final plat approval.
4.      Two parking stalls per unit will be included within each lot.
5.      The overall open space shall comply with the MR-20 zone requirements.
6.      The final plat shall be recorded within one (1) year of this action.
7.    An HOA, or similar management entity, shall be established to maintain all common areas.
8.    Cross access easements shall be granted for access, parking, open space, and utilities.

Moved: S. Goodlander              Seconded: J. Lucero          Approved: 0-7

Yea: Guth, Lucero, Goodlander, Croshaw, Heare, Lewis, Dickinson       Nay:           Abstain:
