                                  CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 22-11

    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
                         LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, STATE OF
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: That certain map or maps entitled " Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Ellis Neighborhood and as specifically identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Commercial (COM) & Commercial Service (CS) to
Mixed Use (MU)

SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

      PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, - - - -
THIS DAY OF              , 2022.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

                                                         Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


ATTEST:

Teresa Harris, City Recorder


                               PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

       The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the _ _ day of                  , 2022.



                                                         Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


                        MAYOR' S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

        The foregoing ordinance is hereby _ _ __ _ _ _ _ this_ day of _ _ _ _ _ _.
2022.



                                                         Holly H. Daines, Mayor
EXHIBIT A

10th West 2nd South Rezone
      - :1 000 West 200 South
                                               ~
                               L@GAN  C IIY UNITED IN SERVICE
                                      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT



                 MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
DATE:        April 21, 2022
FROM:        Russ Holley , Senior Planner
SUBJECT:     Ordinance #22-11     1oth West 2nd South Rezone



Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                              101h West 2nd South Rezone
Request:                                   Map Amendment
Project Address:                           Northeast corner of 101h West 2nd South
Recommendation of the Planning Commission: Approval

On April 14, 2022, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the
rezone.

Planning Commissioners vote (5-1 ):
Motion : Heare
Second: Peterson

Vote to recommend approval to City Council:
Yea : Guth, Heare, Lewis, Lucero, Peterson ,
Nay: Croshaw
Abstain: None

Attachments:
Ordinance #22-11
Staff Report & Project Slides
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
 PC 22-020 10th West and 2nd South Project - Rezone [Zone Change] Michael Jewell/Triiio
 QOZB II , LLC, authorized agent/owner, request a rezone of 31.39 acres from Commercial
 Services (CS) and Commercial (COM) to Mixed Use (MU) to create a multi-faceted development
 that will include townhomes , apartments , commercial , and retail space, located at approximately
 1000 West 200 South ; TIN 05-064-0013 ; -0028 , 06-002-0003. (Ellis Neighborhood)


STAFF: R. Holley reviewed the request for a rezone of approximately 31 acres (three parcels) from
Commercial & Commercial Services to Mixed Use with the intent to develop a future mixed-use project.
All three properties are currently vacant and have historically been used for agricultural purposes. The
Future Land Use Plan shows this area as Mixed Use. The MU designation in the General Plan is
described as having high concentrations of commercial and residential uses. Structures would typically be
multi-story with projects laid out in a compact fashion that allows residents to work, play, and live all within
a walkable center.

The surrounding area currently has a wide range of commercial and industrial uses such as restaurants,
offices, light manufacturing , and storage. The Land Development Code (LDC) allows for up to 30
residential units per acre of land in the MU zone. It allows for a "horizontal" mixed-use pattern , which does
not require every building to contain ground floor commercial and upper-story residential but does
specifically require a minimum amount of commercial square footage. For 31 acres, a minimum of 7,500
SF of commercial space shall be provided . The MU zoning district permits a wide range of commercial
uses that include, but are not limited to, restaurants, offices, retail , hospitality, and personal commercial
services. The current zoning designation of COM & CS does not allow horizontal mixed-use buildings or
projects.

Given the proximity to existing single-family residential areas to the south and the light manufacturing
areas to the northeast, a mixed-use project may act as a transitional area or buffer between incompatible
land use areas. This location is adjacent to Logan City's gridded core , it offers better mobility and
transportation choices for future residents and puts less development pressure on the rural and
agricultural lands farther out into the valley.

When a commission or council contemplates a rezone, they need to evaluate the range of uses permitted
in that zone make sure they are comfortable with all options.

Commissioner Lucero asked if this area would be in the Ellis Elementary boundary. R. Holley said he
believes this area is in the Ellis Elementary boundary. It is in the Mt Logan Middle School , and Logan
High School Boundary.

Commissioner Lucero asked where the access to 1000 West would be. R. Holley said that UDOT w ill
allow an intersection every block (660 ft) onto 1000 West, so we can anticipate a stop sign intersection
onto 1000 West at Center Street and 130 South (to align with the existing 130 South street). There will be
a stoplight intersection at 200 South and 1000 West.

PROPONENT: Michael Jewell talked about their vision and working with Urban Design Associates
to create a center that makes the neighborhood better, a walkable community that includes
residential, retail , restaurants, grocery stores , office space, parks, and open space.

PUBLIC: Jese Corbridge talked about the applicant's fantasy design proposal and how their proposed
connections to Center Street and 100 South are on adjacent property the applicant does not own.

COMMISSION: Commissioner Heare said he would like to look at the design review along with the zone
change to see where the connections would be. Commissioner Croshaw agreed . Commissioner Lucero
said that zone change should be looked at separately because a design could get approved but not get
completed , or the property sold , and a completely different design proposed.

M. DeSimone said that the accessibility is the same regardless of what zone it is. Any development that
goes in must account for what is next to it and must be able to connect to the future development to the
north.

Commissioner Heare stated that it is possible that after a rezone is approved this area could be
developed as all housing . That would add a huge burden on a neighborhood that is already burdened.

Commissioner Guth asked if there was a better zone option that would allow for mixed-use but have more
restrictions on residential. R. Holley said you could piecemeal this area with different zones, but that
would limit any master plan design options.

M. DeSimone said that you cannot rezone a property based on a project. You have to be comfortable
with all the allowed uses for that zone. The commission's recommendation should be based on what is
allowed in the requested zoning , the surrounding zones, and the Future Land Use Plan. The General
Plan supports this rezone and that should be the biggest element that supports a decision of
recommending approval to the City Council.

The concern amongst the committee is the possibility of ending up with another residential development
like the one on 600 West and 200 North. There was also a discussion on changing the standards of the
Mixed-Use zone.

MOTION: Commissioner Heare moved to forward a recommendation of approval to the Municipal
Council on a Zone Change for PC 22-020 with the findings for approval as listed below. Commissioner
Peterson seconded the motion.

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1.     The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as MU .
2. This area is positioned along arterial streets with commercial uses and a mixed-use project will not
   negatively impact that character.
3.     Infrastructure and access are adequate to serve the future development of this property.
4.     Design incompatibles with surrounding areas can be mitigated through Design Review
   processes.
5.     The central location will better existing infrastructure and put less development pressure on
   surrounding rural areas.

Moved:         Seconded:             Approved: 5-1

Yea : Lucero, Guth , Lewis, Heare, Peterson       Nay: Croshaw             Abstain:
L@GAN
   CII) UNITED 1N sc•vic,
                                                Project #22-020
                                          1oth West 2nd South Rezone
                                    Located at approx. 1000 West 200 South
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

REPORT SUMMARY ...
Project Name:                            101h West 2nd South Rezone
Proponent/Owner:                         Michael Jewell/ Triiio QOZB II , LLC
Project Address:                         Approx. 1000 West 200 South
Request:                                 Rezone from CS & COM to MU
Current Zoning:                          CS &COM
Date of Hearing:                         April 14th, 2022
Type of Action:                          Legislative
Submitted By:                            Russ Holley, Senior Planner

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend approval to the Municipal
Council for a rezone of approximately 31 .39 acres of property located at approximately 1000
West 200 South (TIN# 05-064-0013, 06-002-0003, 05-064-0028) from Commercial Service (CS)
and Commercial (COM) to Mixed Use (MU).


North:         COM : Vacant Land                        East:          CS: Commercial Uses
South:         NR-6: Residential Uses                   West:          CS: Commercial Uses

PROJECT
The proponent is requesting to rezone approximately 31-acres (three parcels) from COM & CS
to MU with the intent developing a future mixed-use project. All three properties are currently
vacant and have historically been used for agricultural purposes. The relatively flat land may
have critical land areas that could require further mitigation/assessment. The surrounding area
currently has a wide range of commercial and industrial uses such as restaurant, office, light
manufacturin , and stora e. Located to the southwest, sin le-famil nei hborhoods are found .




Figure 1 shows the approximate 31-acre site location northeast of 1000 West 200 South.
Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                           Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022
GENERAL PLAN
The Future Land Use Plan (FLUP), adopted in 2020, identifies all three properties as Mixed
Use. The MU designation in the General Plan is described as having high concentrations of
commercial and residential uses. Structures would typically be multi-story with projects laid-out
in a compact fashion that allows residents to work, play and live all within a walkable center.
The MU designation can be applied to encourage re-development, especially in areas that have
old or outdated one-story shopping centers.




LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
The Land Development Code (LDC) allows for up to 30 residential units per acre of land in the
MU zone. It allows for a "horizontal" mixed use pattern , which does not require every building to
contain ground floor commercial and upper story residential but does specifically require a
minimum amount of commercial square footage . For 31 acres, a minimum of 7,500 SF of
commercial space shall be provided. The Design Review process will ensure compliance and
proper placement of commercial square footages. The MU zoning district permits a wide range
of commercial uses that include, but are not limited, restaurants, offices, retail, hospitality, and
personal commercial services. The current zoning designation of COM & CS does not allow
horizontal mixed-use buildings or projects.

ZONING HISTORY
Annexed into Logan City in approximately 1983. 1983-1999 areas were zoned M 1
(Manufacturing). From 2000-2020, zoned COM (Commercial). In 2020, approximately half of the
project site was zoned to CS (Commercial Service) for a commercial storage unit facility.




Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                 Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022

                                             2
Figure 2 shows the current zoning in the area


SUMMARY
Given the proximity to existing single family residential areas to south and the light
manufacturing areas to the northeast, a mixed-use project may act as transitional area or buffer
between incompatible land use areas. A large comprehensive project on this site can be
designed in a better manner than that of smaller projects, and would result in improved layout
and traffic circulation , consolidated usable open space and strategic commercial/residential
interfacing. This location which is adjacent to Logan City's gridded core, offers better mobility
and transportation choices for future residents and puts less development pressure on the rural
and agricultural lands farther out into the valley. Being considered an infill project, infrastructure
and utilities can be more efficiently utilized as compared to outer fringe areas (sprawl) that
excessively burden the transportation and infrastructure networks with poor logistics, higher
vehicle miles driven, and lengthier pipes and utility lines.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
No comments.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of
this report, one comment from Frank Schofield has been received.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 04/02/22, posted on the City's website
and the Utah Public Meeting website on 04/04/22, and mailed to property owners within 300 feet
on 03/28/22. The quarter page ad was published on 3/31/22.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
The Planning Commission bases its decision on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
   1. The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as MU.
   2. This area is positioned along arterial streets with commercial uses and a mixed use
       project will not negatively impact that character.
   3. Infrastructure and access are adequate to serve the future development of this property.


Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                   Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022

                                                3
    4. Design incompatibles with surrounding areas can be mitigated through Design Review
       processes.
    5. The central location will better existing infrastructure and put less development pressure
       on surrounding rural areas.


 This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents, standard city development practices, and available information. The report is to be used
 to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting. Additional information may be revealed by
 participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development
 reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional information at the Planning Commission meeting.




Project #22-003 2200 South Rezone                                                      Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Jan. 13, 2022

                                                                              4
              1001   est 211d S011tl1 Rezone
                     - 1000 West 200 South




P ~ g C.Ommission                        April 14. 2022
               1otl1 West 211d S011tl1 Rezone
                       --.ooo West 200 South




Planning Commission
                           . Zo.
                      ExiSting Ding            April 14 2022.
1otl1   est 211d S0utl1 Rezone
        -1000 \iV est 200 South




   Proposed                       April 14, 2022
