                                  CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
                                  ORDINANCE NO. 22-16

     AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
                          LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, STATE OF
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: That certain map or maps entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Wilson Neighborhood and as specifically identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Commercial (COM) to Town Center One (TC-1 )

SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

      PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, _ __
THIS DAY OF              , 2022.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

                                                         Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair


ATTEST:

Teresa Harris, City Recorder



                               PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

       The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the _ _ day of                  , 2022.



                                                         Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair



                        MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

        The foregoing ordinance is hereby _ _ __ _ _ _ _ this_ day of _ _ _ __
2022.



                                                         Holly H. Daines, Mayor
                 EXHIBIT A

                         Ville 364 Re zone
                          364 South Main Street




PlannlngConwnlssion   Proposed Zoning June23, 2022
                                                   ~
                               L@GAN  CI I y u N I T E D I N s E RV I C E
                                      COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT



                 MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
DATE:         July 12, 2022
FROM :        Russ Holley, Senior Planner
SUBJECT:      Ordinance #22-16 Ville 364 Rezone



Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                              Ville 364 Rezone
Request:                                   Map Amendment
Project Address:                           364 South Main Street
Recommendation of the Planning Commission: Approval

On June 23, 2022 the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the
rezone.

Planning Commissioners vote (6-0):
Motion : Heare
Second: Crowshaw

Vote to recommend approval to City Council:
Yea: Lucero, Lewis, Petersen , Heare, Croshaw, Doutre
Nay:None
Abstain : None

Attachments:
Ordinance #22-16
Staff Report & Project Slides
Planning Commission Meeting Minutes
 PC 22-036 Ville 364 Rezone [Zone Change] Mike DeSimone/Logan City are requesting a zone
 change of two parcels totaling 1.32 acres from Commercial (COM) to Town Center 1 (TC-1) to
 allow for the refurbishment of the existing motel into 64 residential units located at 364 South
 Main Street; TIN 02-053-0038; -0014 (Wilson Neighborhood) .


STAFF: R. Holley reviewed the request for a zone change from Commercial to Town Center One (TC-1)
at 364 South Main Street where the existing two-story motel is converting to long-term housing units on
both the ground floor and upper floor. A zone change is needed due to the number of housing units
exceeding the residential density limit in the commercial zone, and the commercial zone not allowing
residential units on the ground floor. The TC-1 zone requires commercial in the first 50 feet on the ground
floor. The South portion of the hotel already contains office space, they will need to create a commercial
space in the first 50 feet of the north building . The owner has partnered with state and federal programs
to offer affordable housing to people who may not otherwise qualify for rentals.

Commissioner Doutre asked if any other zones would allow for housing units on the main floor. R. Holley
said that the Town Center One zone is the only zone that will allow a density of 70 units per acre.

Commissioner Lucero asked if a property can be rezoned just for a specific project, or use. R. Holley said
no, once a property is rezoned , any permitted use in that specific zone would be allowed and it remains
that zone until a zone change is requested and approved .

Commissioner Croshaw asked if additional landscaping could be required . R. Holley said that you cannot
do conditional zoning . Because the TC-1 zone is an urban-type of zone, there are no landscaping
requirements except for the front setback.

PROPONENT: Keith Warburton , owner of the property said they have been renting the units on the upper
floor as long-term rentals and short-term rentals on the main floor to help get people off the street and
become stable. We are a housing first organization , if we can get people housed , we can then get them
the other services they need to help stabilize their housing .

They work closely with BRAG (Bear River Association of Governments) and other service providers in the
area, and there are a lot of people that receive funding for housing for a year, but they do not qualify for
rentals. It would be nice to see people get to use the funding and stay at one place for a year and not
have to bounce from hotel room to hotel room . With our zero barrier entry program , everyone is eligible
as long as the rules are followed , their past does not prevent them from getting housing .

There have been some small upgrades to the units, adding cabinets, cooktops, and fridges. Most of the
units are studio units while the back building does have some larger units which will be remodeled into
one-bedroom units.

PUBLIC: No public comments were made.

COMMISSION: Commissioner Heare said this is what should be done to keep the property maintained
and provide affordable housing. Commissioner Doutre said this type of zero barrier housing is needed in
Logan and maybe there should be a zone created for future development of this type of housing .
Commissioner Lucero said that nothing is going to change with the property externally. Commissioner
Croshaw asked if the zone change will affect the parking . R. Holley said that the use of the property from
motel to long-term residential will change the required parking from 1 to 1.5.
MOTION: Commissioner Heare moved to forward a recommendation of approval for PC 22-036 to the
Municipal Council on a Zone Change for PC 22-036 with the findings for approval as listed below.
Commissioner Croshaw seconded the motion .
FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1.     The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as COM .
2. This area is positioned along Highway 89/91 /Main Street with commercial uses to the north and south
   and adequate utilities present.
3.     Infrastructure and access are located nearby and have the ability to adequately serve the future
   development of this property.
4.     Design and use are compatible with surrounding areas and can be mitigated through Design
   Review processes.

Moved: K. Heare                 Seconded: R. Croshaw                       Approved: 6-0

Yea : Lucero, Lewis, Petersen , Heare, Croshaw , Doutre             Nay:                Abstain:
L@GAN                                        Project #22-036
                                            Villa 364 Rezone
                                     Located at 364 South Main Street
             I   I


REPORT SUMMARY ...
Project Name:                           Ville 364 Rezone
Proponent/Owner:                        Mike DeSimone / Ville 364 LLC
Project Address:                        364 South Main Street
Request:                                Rezone from COM to TC 1
Current Zoning:                         Commercial (COM)
Date of Hearing:                        June 23, 2022
Type of Action:                         Legislative
Submitted By:                           Russ Holley, Senior Planner

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation to the Municipal
Council for a rezone of approximately 1.32 acres of property located at approximately 364 South
Main (TIN# 02-053-0038; -0014) from Commercial (COM) to Town Center One (TC1).


North:           COM: Residential Uses                  East:         NR-6: Residential Uses
South:           COM : Residential Uses                 West:         COM: Residential Uses

PROJECT
The proponent is requesting to rezone approximately 1.32-acres (two parcels) from COM to
TC1 along south Main Street on the east side of the road. Developed in the 1980's as a two-
story motel , the property has recently been sold to a new user that is now requesting long-term
residential land uses. The existing development on the block is split with commercial uses
configured along Main Street and residential uses eastward along 100 East. The existing
buildings are set near the edge of the sidewalk with asphalt parking lots covering most of the
remaining site.




Figure 1 shows the subject property at 364 South Main


Proj ect #22-036 Ville 364 Rezone                         Staff Report fo r the Planning Commission meeting of June 23, 2022
GENERAL PLAN
The Future Land Use Plan (FLUP), adopted in 2008, identifies this property as Commercial
(COM). Town Center (TC) areas on the FLUP do not extend south beyond 200 South Street.
The General Plan, a nonregulatory visioning plan , describes COM areas as being intended for
retail, service and hospitality businesses that provide employment centers and serve city-wide
and regional populations. New projects should have buildings that meet high architectural
standards and constructed with quality materials. Most COM designations inside Logan City are
located near the Main Street/Highway corridor north and south of downtown. The previous use
of the site as a hotel/motel was consistent with Future Land Use Plan Commercial designation.

Town Center (TC) is described in the General Plan as the area containing most of the areas
historical and cultural resources. Referred to as the "hub" for both the city and the valley, it will
contain an abundance of land uses in compact multi-story layouts. Civic, cultural and
entertainment uses will be located in the town center with new development designed with
compatible building materials and architectural styles.




LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
The Land Development Code (LDC) regulates land uses and entitles properties with specific
development allowances. The COM zone allows a wide range of commercial and light industrial
uses. The COM zone (existing zoning designation) is typically located along major collector and
arterial streets with large capacity utilities. Standard building heights are limited to 40' and 60%
lot coverage maximums. Residential uses are allowed at 30 units per acre if positioned in upper
floors of a vertical mixed-use building with commercial uses located on the ground floor. Parking
requirements are based on each project component and 20% of project sites are required to be
improved with open space and landscaping.

The TC1 zone (proposed zoning designation) is typically located in the core downtown areas of
Logan City. Residential densities are set at 70 units per acre. Standard building heights are 55'
with the ability to go up to 80' with step back requirements and up to 100% lot coverage. Open
space and landscaping are not required . Along Main Street and 400 North, commercial space is
required on the ground floor along the street front at a 50 foot depth minimum . Parking
requirements are based on the specific commercial use, while for residential the parking
requirement is a range of 1.5 - 2.0 and based on the number of bedrooms in each unit.


Project #22-036 Ville 364 Rezone                   Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of June 23, 2022

                                             2
Figure 2 shows the proposed zoning


STAFF SUMMARY
The property is approximately one and half blocks outside of the identified TC areas on the
FLUP and would be an island of TC1 zone if approved. The land development patterns in the
TC1 zone compared to the COM are quite different. An 80-foot-tall building with O' setbacks and
no landscaping would struggle to fit into the character of this block and the surrounding COM
uses and buildings as well as the residential areas and NR-6 zone to the east. However, the
property is currently 100% developed with an existing two-story motel building which is in the
process of being converted (interior remodeling only) into long-term residential housing. This
proposal to shift from a motel use to a residential use would not change the physical
appearance of the building and site. The use would be similar from a traffic and impact
standpoint. The proposed new use will likely provide affordable and obtainable housing options
for people with few resources that may be in desperate need of housing. The Planning
Commission will need to determine if the proposed rezone is appropriate or not and send a
recommendation to the City Council accordingly.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
No comments have been received.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of
this report, no comments have been received.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 6/11/22 and the Utah Public Meeting
website on 6/13/22. Quarter page ad was published in the Herald Journal on 06/09/22. Public
notices were mailed to all property owners within 300 feet of the project site on 06/01/22.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS
The Planning Commission bases its decision on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
   1. The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as COM .
   2. This area is positioned along Highway 89/91/Main Street with commercial uses to the
       north and south and adequate utilities present.
Project #22-036 Ville 364 Rezone                Staff Report fo r the Planning Commission meeting of June 23, 2022

                                           3
    3. Infrastructure and access are located nearby and has the ability to adequately serve the
       future development of this property.
    4. Design and use incompatibles with surrounding areas can be mitigated through Design
       Review processes.


 This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents. standard city development practices, and available information. The report is to be used
 to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting. Additional information may be revealed by
 participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development
 reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional infonnation at the Planning Commission meeting.




Project #22-036 Ville 364 Rezone                                                       Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of June 23, 2022

                                                                              4
                      Ville 364 Rezo11e
                       364 South Main Street




Planning Commission                            June 23, 2022.
                      Ville 364 Rezo11e
                       364 South Main Street




                                                    .L         r




Planning Commission                            Jtme 23, 2022
                    Ville 364 Rezo11e
                     364 South l\f ain Street




PJanningCo~ion   Proposed Zoning June23 , 2022
                      Ville 364 Rezo11e
                         364 South Main




Planning Commission                       .June 23, 2022.
                   Ville 364 Rezo11e
                    364 South Main Street




Planning Co~ion
                        . zOn1ng
                     . ting
                  E XIS      .              Jmie 23 , 2022
