CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 23-16

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, STATE OF
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:  That certain map or maps entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Woodruff Neighborhood and as specifically identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Suburban Neighborhood Residential (NR-4) to Mixed
Residential Transitional (MR-9)

SECTION 2:  This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

        PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, _________
THIS DAY OF _______________, 2023.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
                                        ________________________________
                                        Ernesto López, Chairman


ATTEST:
________________________________
Teresa Harris, City Recorder



                        PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

        The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the ____ day of _______________, 2023.


                                        ________________________________
                                        Ernesto López, Chairman

                MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

        The foregoing ordinance is hereby _______________ this ___ day of ____________,
2023.


                                        ________________________________
                                        Holly H. Daines, Mayor

---

EXHIBIT A

[map/plat page 2 — no text]
Title block: Sugar Creek / 1095 West 600 South
Legend labels visible: CS, COM, MU, PUB, IP, NR-4, NR-6, MR-9, REC
Callout: Subject Property Proposed Zone = MR-9
Footer: Planning Commission — Proposed Zoning — March 23, 2023
LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE

---

[LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE / COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

DATE:       April 18th, 2023
FROM:       Russ Holley, Senior Planner
SUBJECT:    Ordinance #23-16 Sugar Creek Rezone

Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                                   Sugar Creek Rezone
Request:                                        Rezone
Project Address:                                ~ 1095 West 600 South
Recommendation of the Planning Commission:      Denial

On March 23rd, 2023, the Planning Commission recommend the Municipal Council deny the Sugar Creek
Rezone

Planning Commissioners vote (5-1):
Motion: Doutre
Second: Peterson
Vote to recommend denial - Yea: Heare, Guth, Lewis, Peterson, Doutre
Nay: Lucero
Abstain: none

Attachments
Ordinance #23-16
Staff Report
Slides
PC Meeting Minutes

---

PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES
Meeting of March 23, 2023

Minutes of the meeting for the Logan City Planning Commission convened in regular session Thursday,
March 23, 2023, Commissioner Heare called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Commissioners Present: Ken, Heare, Jordy Guth, Jessica Lucero, David Lewis, Eldon Peterson, Sara
Doutre
Commissioners Excused: Roylan Croshaw
Staff Present: Russ Holley, Tanya Rice, Mike DeSimone, Darren Farar, Mohammed Abdullahi

Commissioner Lucero made a motion to approve the minutes from the March 09, 2023 meeting as
submitted.  Commissioner Guth seconded the motion.  The motion was approved unanimously.

PUBLIC HEARING:

PC 23-018 Sugar Creek [Zone Change & Subdivision Permit] Ben Steele/Rivergate LLC, authorized
agent/owner is requesting a rezone of approximately 35 acres from Suburban Neighborhood Residential
(NR-4) to Mixed Residential Transitional (MR-9) to develop a 208 lot mixed residential subdivision that will
include 82 single family building lots and 126 townhome lots located at approximately 1095 West 600
South; TIN 02-066-0030; -0033; -0019; -0020; -0021 (Woodruff Neighborhood).

STAFF:  Russ Holley, Senior Planner reviewed the request for a rezone and subdivision permit for
approximately 35 acres located at 1100 West 600 South.  The current zone is single-family at 4 homes
per acre with a 10,000 square foot minimum lot size (NR-4) Future Land Use Plan designates this area as
Detached Residential (DR) which is single-family homes.  The applicant is asking for a rezone to Mixed
Residential Transitional (MR-9) which allows for nine units per acre and different types of attached
housing.  The subdivision plan is for a total of 208 lots that include 82 single-family home building lots and
126 townhomes.  The developer will have to complete the frontage along 600 South Street with asphalt
that ties into the existing asphalt, curb and gutter, sidewalk, and park strip.

PROPONENT: Ben Steele said they are asking for a density of 6 units per acre.  He spoke about the
extra land they are donating towards the 600 South street right of way.  Mr. Steele spoke about the need
for more affordable, attainable housing in Logan.

PUBLIC: Cole Checketts spoke about his concern with the traffic at the intersection of 1000 West and 600
South.

Keegan Garrity spoke about the traffic issues and the existing affordable high-density housing in the
woodruff neighborhood.

Melissa Dahle spoke about townhomes in the Woodruff neighborhood that are too narrow, trucks cannot
fit in the garages, and how the landscaping is not being maintained along 600 South on the other side of
the fence.
Kathleen Olsen asked where the water will run when the flowing wells that are on this property are
capped.

Ross Draper spoke about the standing water on this property and the townhomes having emergency
access.

Kay Lynn Beecher spoke about this area being zoned NR-4 to provide stability.

Paul Beecher spoke about the water issues with this property and how the water drains to the northwest
onto his property.

Shawn Milne said that density is not the problem, housing is needed in the area.  There are just as many
problems with weeds and snow removal at single-family homes.  Mr. Milne also spoke about single-parent
households and the elderly that need this type of housing.

Victor Landen spoke about his concern for the safety of the children and how there are no parks nearby
for them to play.

Stacy Bingham spoke about families outgrowing smaller homes on smaller lots.  If lots are bigger families
can add on to their homes as their family grows and stay in the home.

COMMISSION: Commissioner Peterson stated that he cannot support a rezone, the city council
downzoned this area for a reason. Commissioner Guth said that high-density housing is important and
that many large properties in Logan offer high-density housing.  Commissioner Lucero asked if there
could be a restriction placed on the property with a rezone that would only allow 6 units per acre.  This
property has good connectivity and it is designed well with the single-family homes around the outside
and the high density in the center.  Commissioner Lewis said this project has been put together well but
this is not the right location for MR-9. Commissioner Doutre said she likes the design and this is the type
of development the commission would like to see in other areas where the zoning allows for it.  Maybe
there needs to be an MR-4 zone that would allow for this type of mixed housing. Commissioner Heare
said that the Planning Commission does not have the discretion to add a deed restriction on the property
that will have to be left to the Municipal Council to decide.  Commissioner Heare also agreed that this type
of development is needed in the city.

MOTION: Commissioner Doutre moved to forward a recommendation of denial to the Municipal
Council on a Zone Change for PC 23-063 with the recommended findings for denial listed below.
Commissioner Peterson seconded the motion.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR REZONE DENIAL
        1.  The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as Detached Residential (DR).
        2.  The Woodruff Neighborhood Plan, a subset of the Logan General Plan adopted in 2021, plans for
            this area as Detached Residential (DR) and recommends that zoning remain single family
            detached in this area.
        3.  The nearest Multi-Family Zone (MR) is approximately 2,500 linear feet away.
        4.  The surrounding developed neighborhoods to the east, north, and south contain existing single-
            family homes and are zoned NR-4 and NR-6.

Moved: S. Doutre               Seconded: E. Peterson

Vote to recommend denial: 5-1

Yea: Heare, Guth, Lewis, Peterson, Doutre          Nay: Lucero          Abstain:



MOTION: Commissioner Doutre moved to continue a subdivision permit for PC 21-063 to the May 11,
2023 meeting.  Commissioner Guth seconded the motion.  The motion was approved unanimously.

---

[LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE / COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

Project #23-018
Sugar Creek
Located at approx. 1095 West 600 South

REPORT SUMMARY...
Project Name:           Sugar Creek
Proponent/Owner:        Ben Steele / Rivergate LLC
Project Address:        Approximately 1095 West 600 South
Request:                Rezone from NR-4 to MR-9 & 210 Lot Subdivision
Current Zoning:         Suburban Neighborhood Residential NR-4
Date of Hearing:        March 23rd 2023
Type of Action:         Legislative & Quasi-Judicial
Submitted By:           Russ Holley, Senior Planner

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission deny a Rezone and Subdivision Permit for
project PC 23-018 Sugar Creek, located on approximately 35.48 acres at approximately 1095
West 600 South; TIN #02-066-0030; -0031; -0019; -0021.

Land use adjoining the subject property
North:  NR-4 Vacant                     East:   NR-4 Single Family Homes
South:  NR-4 Single Family Homes        West:   NR-6 Single Family Homes

Request
The proponent is requesting to rezone four properties, a total of approximately 35.48 acres,
from Suburban Neighborhood Residential (NR-4) to Mixed Residential Transitional (MR-9). The
proposal includes subdividing 82 single family building lots, 126 townhome lots for a total of 208
new dwelling units over the course of three phases. The generally flat, vacant land shows some
wetland areas along the west side of the project site. The proposed layout shows a series of
smaller residential blocks accessed from 600 South and 1400 West. Historically, the property
has been used for agricultural purposes. This area was annexed into Logan City in early 1980's.

[map/plat page 6 — no text]
Figure 1 shows the proposed Sugar Creek preliminary plat in three phases
(labels visible: PHASE 3 (24 LOTS) (40 TOWNHOMES); PHASE 1 (26 LOTS) (44 TOWNHOMES);
PHASE 2 (32 LOTS) (42 TOWNHOMES); 600 SOUTH (MENDON ROAD))

General Plan
The Future Land Use Plan (FLUP) adopted in 2008 identifies this property as Detached
Residential (DR) and explains that designation as being areas for detached single-family homes
developed at a density range of 4-6 units per acre of land. The recently adopted Woodruff
Neighborhood Plan also indicates this project area as DR (single-family residential). The
surrounding developments are single family homes built in the 1980's, 1990's and early 2000's
to the south of 600 South.

Woodruff Neighborhood Specific Plan
The Woodruff Neighborhood Plan was adopted February 16th, 2021, after a multi-year public
process. The Plan has recommendations and shows proposed changes to the FLUP based on
the plan. The area where Sugar Creek is located, however, is proposed as unchanged and
shows a DR designation.

Land Development Code (LDC) - Zoning
The current zoning district is Suburban Neighborhood Residential (NR-4), which is described as
being lower density detached single-family zoning with a maximum density of four (4) homes
per acre. Minimum building lot sizes are 10,000 SF (approximately quarter-acre lots) with
minimum 90-foot lot widths. This zone also allows for owner-occupied accessory dwelling units
and short-term rentals with certain limitations in this area of the city.

Rezone
The applicant is requesting a rezone from NR-4 to MR-9. The MR-9 zone allows for densities up
to nine (9) units per acre and a mix of housing structure types. Single-Family Homes
Townhomes, Duplexes, Triplexes, and similar structure types are permitted in the MR-9 zone.
For single family homes, 4,000 SF minimum lot sizes and 40-foot lot widths are required.
Setbacks are set at 15 feet in the front yard and 30% Open Space is required in the MR-9. The
MR-9 zone is typically placed in transitional areas between lower and higher density areas of
town. The overall gross density of the project is proposed at just under six units per acre.

Subdivision
The LDC 17.40 requires Subdivision Permits to be issued in accordance to zoning district
standards for orderly development patterns and proper street layout. Approvals are based on
conformance to lot size, lot width, access and physically suitable for development. The
proposed 208-lot subdivision shows a combination of single-family detached building lots and
townhome lots. 82 single-family lots are proposed ranging in size from 4,800 SF to 12,131 SF.
The larger single-family lots are located to the north and west of the project site. The townhome
lots essentially comprise the footprint of the townhome building unit. Setbacks and open space
will be accounted for from the overall common area property. Common area and wetland areas
will create remainder lots and will need to be listed as "non-buildable" on the final plat to prevent
future unpermitted development potential. As submitted, the subdivision complies with minimum
lot sizes and widths of the proposed MR-9 zone.

Street Grid Connectivity & Site Layout
The LDC 17.30.190 requires projects serving fifty-one (51) or more dwelling units have at least
three (3) street connections or stubs for future connections unless adjustments are warranted as
per LDC 17.30.170.D. The LDC street connectivity requirements also require the continuation of
residential block patterns to adequately connect to surrounding areas based on context and
existing conditions. These requirements ensure equitable traffic distribution, efficient
utility/infrastructure networks, better walkability and the continuation of Logan City's historic
grid/block patterns. This proposal includes seven (7) new street connections (including street
stubs), and the creation of several internal blocks for inner project connectivity. The block
patterns align with existing developments to the north, south and east. Adjustments to street
alignments are made near the wetland areas on the west side of the project to avoid
unnecessary disturbance to those sensitive lands. As proposed, the project meets street layout
and connection requirements in the LDC.

Street Width
The Logan City Engineering Standards and Specifications contain the adopted street cross-
section designs for all areas and all types of development within the city. For standard
neighborhood residential developments, a "Local Residential Street" with a 60-foot cross section
containing vehicle travel lanes, on-street parking, landscaping (park strip) and sidewalks are
required. The proposed subdivision shows a 60-foot cross section throughout the interior areas
of the project site with 66-foot cross sections for the gridded streets. The expansion of 600
South Street, as conditioned below by the City Engineer, will be a larger Collector category
street and will have a wider "built" cross section at approximately 80 feet including buffering
areas. As conditioned, the project meets the requirements in the LDC.

[map/plat page 8 — no text]
Figure 2 shows the proposed Sugar Creek development with the existing surrounding neighborhoods.
(labels visible: THREE POINT AVE, 500 S, 600 S, 630 S, SHEET 2, SHEET 3, 1360 W)

Setbacks
The Land Development Code (LDC) requirements for setbacks in the MR-9 zone are as follows
(as measured from property lines):
Front:          15' (20' minimum for front loading garages and driveways)
Corner          15'
Side:           8'
Rear:           10'

Townhome setbacks are conditioned with setback compliance with the above standards. For the
single-family homes, setback compliance will be reviewed and approved on the above
standards as each lot is individually proposed for construction.  As conditioned, the project
meets MR-9 setback compliance in the LDC.

Lot Coverage
The LDC 17.07.060 limits lot coverage at a maximum of 70% (building(s) footprint) in the MR-9
zone. Townhome areas meet lot coverages when factoring total overall open space. Lot
coverage will be reviewed and approved with compliance to LDC standards when building
permit applications are submitted for new single-family homes.

Parking Stall Requirements
The LDC 17.31.040 requires two (2) parking stalls per every dwelling unit. The parking stalls
must be located outside of building setbacks in either a garage, carport or paved parking lot.
Driveway cuts are limited to 24-foot max width at the curb to preserve street character and limit
ingress/egress onto public streets. Parking and driveways will be reviewed and approved with
compliance to LDC standards when building permit applications are submitted for new single-
family homes.

Rear Facing Homes/Fencing
The LDC 17.30.100 regulates fencing and walls in residential developments. When subdivisions
are adjacent to perimeter streets, collector or arterial streets, developers will often choose to
align lots with rear yards abutting the perimeter streets. For this submittal, 36 single family lots
abut 600 South with rear yards. In these configurations, a rear yard fence that is 4 feet tall or
less may be placed on the property line, but a 6-foot-tall fence must be setback 10 feet from the
rear property line. Corner lots are treated differently and allow 6-foot-tall fencing without
setbacks in areas of the corner yard behind the home's front façade.

LDC 17.09.020 addresses these situations and requires additional landscaping buffers along
the back sides of these homes. Depending on whether the street is a local, collector or arterial,
the landscape buffer ranges from 10-50 feet wide. For consistency, these areas will have better
long-term appearance and maintenance if they are designed as a whole, commonly owned, and
maintained through an HOA. As conditioned with adherence to 17.09.020 for the rear facing
lots, the project meets the requirements in the LDC.

Landscaping & Usable Outdoor Space
The LDC 17.32 requires minimum Landscaping and Usable Outdoor Space percentages per
zoning district and development type. For the MR-9 zone, 30% of the project site (net land after
public street dedication) is required for landscaping and useable outdoor space purposes.
Landscaping is defined as trees, shrubs, native and ornamental plant materials, turf-grass,
mulch and similar soft-scope ground covers suited for Logan's unique climate and soil types.
Landscaping's purpose is to balance natural and built environments and enhance the city's
overall aesthetics as well as buffer and screen loading docks, dumpsters, service areas and
blank walls specified in the design review process. The LDC requires a minimum of 20 trees
and a combination of 50 shrubs, flowers, and ornamental grasses per acre of land for multi-
family residential projects. As conditioned with a detailed landscaping plan meeting minimum
plant numbers and area percentages, the project complies with the LDC.

Staff Summary
The proposed rezone does not align with the Logan City Future Land Use Plan and the
Woodruff Neighborhood Plan. Although the density is similar to NR-6, the proposal shows more
multi-family units than single family units (126 & 82 respectively). The proposed plan does a
good job of placing single-family around the perimeter of the site to match adjacent existing
neighborhoods and placing the multi-family on the interior of the project. The project also
provides well thought out open space and trail network amenities through the center of the
project. The applicant has stated that this project will provide more affordable home-ownership
opportunities because of the size and type of dwelling unit. Staff must honor the efforts and
desires of previous planning exercises associated with the FLUP and Woodruff Plan.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
Comments were solicited from the following departments or agencies:
•   Environmental             •   Water
•   Fire                      •   Engineering


PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of
this report, staff has received numerous written comments in opposition to the project. The
comments are attached for review.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 3/11/23, posted on the City's website and
the Utah Public Meeting website on 3/13/23 and mailed out to adjacent property owners within
300' on 3/6/23.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR REZONE DENIAL
The Planning Commission bases its decision on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
    1.  The Logan City FLUP identifies the area as Detached Residential (DR).
    2.  The Woodruff Neighborhood Plan, a subset of the Logan General Plan and adopted in
        2021, plans for this area as Detached Residential (DR) and recommends that zoning
        remain single family detached in this area.
    3.  The nearest Multi-Family Zone (MR) is approximately 2,500 linear feet away.
    4.  The surrounding developed neighborhoods to the east, north, and south contain existing
        single-family homes and are zoned NR-4 and NR-6.

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL FOR SUBDIVISION AND DESIGN REVIEW
PENDING REZONE APPROVALS
This project is subject to the proponent or property owner agreeing to comply with the following
conditions as written, or as may be amended by the Planning Commission.
    1.  All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Design Review and are
        available in the Community Development Department.
    2.  This subdivision permits authorizes 208 total units, 82 single family lots and 126
        townhome lots developed in three phases.
    3.  The final wetland delineation document must be completed and approved by the Army
        Corp of Engineers prior to any phase with wetlands.
    4.  The stormwater common areas and wetland areas shall be listed as non-buildable on
        the final plat.
    5.  Street design shall conform to Logan City adopted standards and specifications. All
        streets adjacent to or within the development shall be improved to current city standards
        and specifications.
    6.  Building setbacks, lot coverages, parking and driveway specifications shall be reviewed
        and approved on an individual basis and comply with the MR-9 requirements.
    7.  Open Space and Outdoor Space shall total 30% of the overall project area (all MR-9
        zoned areas) and developed in manner that is proportionate with phase boundaries.
    8.  A performance landscaping plan, prepared in accordance with §17.32 of the LDC, shall
        be submitted for approval to the Community Development Department prior to the
        issuance of the building permit. The plan shall include the following:
            a) Street trees along all streets provided every thirty (30) feet on center unless
               otherwise noted by the City Forrester.
            b) Storm water retention areas that are adjacent to public streets shall be
               landscaped and designed so the trees and shrubbery screen pond areas from
               view at the street.
            c) Landscaping and Usable Outdoor Space shall total a minimum of 30%.
            d) Common Landscaping areas shall have 20 trees and 50
               shrubs/perennials/ornamental grasses per acre of land.
            e) The landscape buffer areas adjacent to 600 South shall comply with tree and
               shrub specifications in 17.09.020.
    9.  Exterior lighting, including gas canopy lighting, shall be concealed source, down-cast
        and shall not illuminate or cast light onto adjacent properties.
    10. No signs are approved with this Design Review Permit. All signage shall be approved and
        permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    11. No fences are approved with this Design Review Permit. All fences shall be approved and
        permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    12. All critical lands, as defined in the Logan Land Development Code, shall be identified, and
        listed on the final plat.
    13. HOA and CC&R's shall be submitted to the City for review and compliance with applicable
        maintenance and landscaping requirements.
    14. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the Director of Community Development shall
        receive a written memorandum from each of the following departments or agencies
        indicating that their requirements have been satisfied:
        a. Environmental—contact 716-9760
            1.  Residential cart/cans will be provided. Place all carts at or above the minimum
                separation distance and clear of all overhead obstacles.
        b. Water—contact 716-9622
            •   All of the sewer from the development needs to flow south to the existing lines in 600
                S. Flowing north into 1200 W goes to a small lift station that shouldn't receive more
                flow.
            •   Install continuous 8" waterline in 1200 W from 600 S to existing waterline in 1200 W
                near 461 S.
            •   Coordinate with Public Works (Engineering and Water) to ensure that adequate
                looping is provided in development to meet required fire flows and maintain water
                quality.
            •   The proposed zone change will result in additional loading to the sewer collection
                system. This additional load will cause the existing sewer on Sundown Way to be
                over capacity and will have to be upsized from 8-inch to 10-inch. Logan City would
                prefer to construct a new 12-inch sewer main from Legend Dr. to 1580 W along 600
                S. The Sugar Creek development would be expected to provide their proportional
                share of the cost to make these improvements. Coordinate with Public Works to
                determine the extent and cost sharing for upsized capacity.
            •   Commonly or privately owned landscape irrigation system's fed from Logan City
                water must have a high hazard rated backflow assembly installed and tested. Name
                who will be responsible for the maintenance and annually testing of any commonly
                owned backflow assemblies. All backflow assemblies must be tested within 10 days
                of turning in water to them and annually thereafter.
            •   Project shall comply with all current Utah State plumbing codes, amendments
                and Utah Admin. code R 309-105-12-(1) rules and regulations including, but not
                limited to, those pertaining to backflow prevention and cross connection
                protection, during and after construction, for the safety of the water and its
                consumption.
            •   If residential buildings are three levels above finish grade or higher (water meter
                elevation), their water main/s must have a minimum DC (ASSE1015) backflow
                assembly on the water main/s before any branch offs, or possible connections.
        c. Engineering – contact 716-9160
            GENERAL
            •   Additional water shares or in-lieu fee for indoor and outdoor increased water
                demands shall be provided to the City in accordance with City Code 17.29.210 and
                Utah Administrative Rule R309-510-7.
            •   All existing easement / right of way lines shall be shown on the plat and the type of
                easement / right of way and recording information shall be labeled on the plat.
                Improvements shall not infringe upon the rights of an existing easement / right of way
                / property owned by others.  Where non-existent or insufficient, provide a 10' Public
                Utility Easement along all street frontages, and provide a 5' Public Utility Easement
                along each side of all interior property lines and perimeter property lines.
            •   All necessary cross access easements/agreements for private road and private
                utilities across all properties shall be provided to the City prior to recording for review
                and approval.
            •   This development has been identified as a multi lot subdivision and as such shall
                provide a subdivision plat that meets City standards to be recorded along with the
                improvement plans.
            •   CC&R's shall include language that addresses the requirement of the HOA /
                homeowners to maintain any private water lines, private sewer lines, common areas,
                parking areas, and the Storm Water management system, basins, swales, and
                related infrastructure along with the adjacent right-of-way park strips.
            •   Provide a Development Agreement and Financial Surety of at least 110% of the cost
                to construct all infrastructure & storm water improvements. Financial assurances shall
                not expire for a minimum of 2 years from date of City acceptance.
            •   Provide a Geotechnical Report that includes but is not limited to: 1) California Bearing
                Ratio (CBR) of the subgrade under the City's pavement section, 2) Historical high
                ground water elevation, and 3) Percolation rate of soils at bottom of all storm water
                retention ponds.  The report shall include a City roadway cross section design based
                on the CBR and the 30 year projected ESALs identified in the Logan City
                Transportation Master Plan and the following truck percentages: 2% for residential
                and grided streets, 4% for collector streets, 8% for arterial streets.
            •   A "Pre construction meeting" shall be held with the City's Engineering Division prior to
                starting construction activities and a "Work in the Right of Way" permit shall be
                obtained for all work in the City's right-of-way and PUE prior to scheduling the Pre
                Construction meeting.
            •   Wetlands have been identified as existing or previously existing on the property.
                Provide a wetlands delineation study approved by the Army Corps of Engineers to
                confirm the location of any jurisdictional wetlands.  If jurisdictional wetlands are found,
                provide a wetlands mitigation plan approved by the Army Corps of Engineers.
            •   This development is located in an area of high water table (0 to 24 inches) and
                classified as having moderate liquefaction potential; as such structures and
                stormwater management facilities shall be designed accordingly.
            •   Agreements between property owners and easements where necessary shall be
                provided to the City prior to approval of a construction plan set that shows
                construction improvements outside of the property boundary lines.
            •   The City may elect to have a 3rd party review technical studies such as a traffic study,
                floodplain study, noise study, vibration study, etc. provided in support of the
                development.  Reasonable costs associated with the third-party review shall be borne
                by the applicant.
            UTILITIES
            •   All utilities outside of the public right-of-way way shall be private lines and shall be
                owned, maintained, repaired/replaced by Homeowners Association.  All infrastructure
                shall be installed, maintained, and repaired/replaced in accordance with Logan City
                Standards.
            •   Provide City with private Water Utility agreement for all private water and sewer lines
                (including fire lines) not located withing a Public Right of Way.  The agreement shall
                be recorded with the County Recorder.
            •   All lots shall have separate water service and sewer service connections to water
                distribution and sewer collection systems.
            •   Fire hydrants locations shall meet the Fire Code requirements as determined by the
                City's Fire Marshall.
            •   Construct a sewer line connection between 1200 W and 1360 W on 600 S. The City
                will contribute to oversizing to meet the City's master plan needs.
            •   Construct a sewer line along the frontage of 1400 W.  The City will contribute to
                oversizing to meet the City's master plan needs.
            •   Construct water improvements to connect water north to the existing water
                connection in 1200 W.
            •   Construct a water line in 500 S (470 S on the plans) along the street frontage to 1400
                W and tie in the water connection at the west townhome street.
            •   All existing water and sewer service lines extending to the site that are not proposed
                to be used with the new development shall be capped at the City main line.
            •   Proposed water and sewer lines in the rights of way shall typically be a minimum of 8
                inches in diameter.  The City may require larger diameter utility lines (proposed or
                existing) if required according to modeling results or if identified by the City's master
                plans.  If required per a master plan document, the City will pay for any increase in
                size.
            STORMWATER / IRRIGATION
            •   Provide storm water detention/retention per Logan City Design standards.  This
                includes the retention of stormwater from an adjacent existing streets that discharges
                to the property.  Retention of the 90% storm event is required and shall be provided
                through the use of Low Impact design methods.
            •   Except for stormwater from City rights-of-way which shall be managed on the
                property, the development shall either incorporate into its stormwater design or pass
                through in a historical manner any stormwater that flows onto the property from
                adjacent properties.
            •   Provide a stormwater maintenance agreement for City Review, approval and
                recordation at County Recorder's Office.
            •   Area is greater than 1 acre so compliance with the State Storm Water Permit is
                required.  Development shall also provide a sediment and erosion control plan for all
                construction activities.
            •   Maintain the capacity, size, and location of all existing irrigation system infrastructure
                along and within the project; or where irrigation infrastructure is required to be
                relocated or changed, improve the infrastructure to the irrigation company's
                standards.  The City will require all affected Irrigation companies to provide a
                signature approval on all final construction plans and final plats.
            •   The plans submitted show storm water management improvements on the property,
                including the provision for storm water detention/retention basins.  As a detailed
                report or study has not been reviewed, it is noted that additional pond area may be
                required to comply with the City's storm water management standards which may
                impact the plat.
            •   Stormwater basins shall not be located on residential lots.  A dedicated parcel for
                stormwater management shall be provided and language added to the CC&Rs
                indicating that the storm water systems and ponds shall be maintained by the HOA.
            •   The minimum diameter of storm drain piping in a City right of way shall be 15 inches
                unless a larger size is required by the design.
            STREETS
            •   600 South is identified as a minor arterial on the City's transportation master plan and
                as such requires a 102-foot right of way.  Dedicate sufficient property to achieve a
                total (existing plus new) 84 feet of right of way as measured from the existing south
                right of way line along the entire length of the project.  Prepare construction plans to
                build improvements associated with a modified collector street cross section.  The
                north back of curb shall be located 24 feet south of the new north right of way line and
                the improvements shall include asphalt that ties into existing asphalt, curb & gutter,
                sidewalk, and park strip.
            •   1400 W is designated as an arterial street on the City's Transportation Master Plan
                and as such will require 102 feet of total right of way that is in alignment with the
                existing preserved right of way to the south.  As such, the eastern alignments of the
                rights of way shall match.  Where the City will be constructing or participating in the
                construction of 1400 W to SR-30, the development will be required to construct the
                west half street improvements equal to the City's 80-foot collector road standard.
            •   Rename 470 S to 500 S and 500 S to 520 South.
            •   1200 W and 500 S are gridded streets and as such shall have a total 66-foot
                dedicated width and shall be constructed to a gridded street cross section.  A
                minimum of 20 feet of asphalt shall be constructed on any half street improvement.
            •   470 S shall be extended west to connect to 1400 W.
            •   All other streets including 500 S west of 1200 W shall be 60-foot-wide rights of way
                and constructed to the City's residential street cross section.
            •   Where the existing half street or portion thereof is in poor condition in regard to
                cracking, or is damaged during construction; owner shall reconstruct the pavement
                cross section out to an area of good condition asphalt.  At a minimum 3' of existing
                asphalt shall be removed and replaced.
            •   Provide a traffic impact study for review and approval by the City and follow all
                recommendations identified unless it conflicts with City standards.
        d. Fire – contact 716-9515
            •   Fire hydrants shall be installed within 600 ft of all buildable areas, including to the
                back of lots, and measured along drivable routes.  Include plan indicating distance to
                fire hydrants in construction plans.
        e. Forestry – contact 716-9749
            •   Park strip trees shall be provided by developer for gold card sign off. *
            •   Species selection must be approved by City Forester prior to planting*
            •   Trees shall be planted at correct depth by International Society of Arboriculture
                standards. Meaning root flare shall be at final grade level.
            •   Tree stakes shall be loose and only provided when necessary.
            •   Only low growing variety of trees will be permitted under power lines.
            •   30' tree setback is required on park strip trees located near corner intersections for
                sight distance. Rex.davis@loganutah.org
        f. Environmental  – contact 716-9761
            •   Residential cans will be provided. Cans need to be placed on public street for
                collection.

This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents, standard city development practices, and available information.
The report is to be used to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting.
Additional information may be revealed by participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the
Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional
information at the Planning Commission meeting.

---

[map/plat page 15 — no text]
Title: Sugar Creek / 1095 West 600 South
FLUP designation map. Labels visible: PUB, RCA, DR-DX, DR, CS, MUC, MR, REC
Callout: Subject Property FLUP = DR
Footer: Planning Commission — FLUP — March 23, 2023

---

[map/plat page 16 — no text]
Title: Sugar Creek / 1095 West 600 South
Proposed Zoning map. Labels visible: PUB, IP, NR-4, NR-6, MR-9, CS, COM, MU, REC
Callout: Subject Property Proposed Zone = MR-9
Footer: Planning Commission — Proposed Zoning — March 23, 2023

---

[map/plat page 17 — no text]
Title: Sugar Creek / 1095 West 600 South
Aerial photo of subject site. Street labels visible: 600 S, 630 S, 400 S, 500 S, 530 S, 370 S,
KNOWLES, THREE POINT, OAK CREEK, OAKWOOD, SUNDOWN, LEGEND, KC, 1400 W, 1360 W,
1250 W, S. STUART, HENRYS POINT, 1200 W, 1060 W, 1000 W
Footer: Planning Commission — March 23, 2023

---

[map/plat page 18 — no text]
Title: Sugar Creek / 1095 West 600 South
Current Zoning map. Labels visible: PUB, IP, NR-4, NR-6, CS, COM, MU, REC
Callout: Subject Property Zoning = NR-4
Footer: Planning Commission — Current Zoning — March 23, 2023

---

[map/plat page 19 — no text]
Title: Sugar Creek / 1095 West 600 South
Aerial vicinity map. Callout: Subject Property
Footer: Planning Commission — March 23, 2023

---

[map/plat page 20 — no text]
Sugar Creek — Visionary Homes (rendering / site plan)
Labels visible: WETLANDS, TOWN HOMES, 4,800 S.F. LOTS MINIMUM, 6,000 S.F. LOTS,
1400 WEST STREET, 600 SOUTH STREET
