[page 1]

CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 23-28

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, STATE OF
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:  That certain map or maps entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Adams Neighborhood and as specifically identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Commercial (COM) to Commercial Planned
Development Overlay (COM/PD Overlay)

SECTION 2: That certain code entitled "Land Development Code, City of Logan, Utah" Chapter
17.27A: PD-1 "Cache Valley Marketplace" are amended as attached hereto as Exhibit B.

SECTION 3:  This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

        PASSED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, ________
THIS DAY OF ______________, 2023.

AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:                                        ______________________________
                                               Ernesto López, Chairman


ATTEST:
______________________________
Teresa Harris, City Recorder

                        PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

        The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the ____ day of ______________, 2023.


                                               ______________________________
                                               Ernesto López, Chairman


                        MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

        The foregoing ordinance is hereby ________________ this ___ day of ____________,
2023.


                                               ______________________________
                                               Holly H. Daines, Mayor

[page 2]

EXHIBIT A

[map/plat page 2 — no text]
Legible labels: LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE. Title block: "Cache Valley Marketplace / ~1300 North Main Street". Aerial zoning map with parcels labeled COM, MR-12. Callout box: "Subject Property 25.5 ac. / Existing zone = COM / Proposed zone = COM/PD Overlay". Street labels: 1400 N, MAIN, 200 E, 50 E, 1260 N, 1250 N, CACHE VALLEY. Banner: "Proposed Zoning   July 13, 2023".

[page 3]

EXHIBIT B

Chapter 17.27A: PD-1: Cache Valley Marketplace

§17.27A.010  Purpose and Intent
        The purposes of the PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace Development Project are:
        1.  Revitalize the existing Cache Valley Mall property which has seen a loss of primary
            mall anchors and a lack of investment.
        2.  Redevelop the existing Cache Valley Mall with new commercial space, hotel, and
            residential uses valued at over $205,000,000.
        3.  Construct an approximate 150,000 square foot building housing a new anchor retailer.
        4.  Construct approximately 346 multi-family residential units and associated amenities
            with a percentage of those new units designated as affordable housing units.
        5.  Construct an approximate 156 room hotel with an additional 21,000 square feet of main
            level commercial space.
        6.  Improve pedestrian circulation between 200 East and Main Street through the site.

§17.27A.020  Applicability and Context
        This Planned Development will be labeled as PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace Planned
        Development. The entire site contains approximately 28.634 while the gross development
        area contains approximately 25.5 acres and is located east of Main Street, south of 1400
        North, west of 200 East and north of 1250 North (Cache Valley Mall Blvd.). The current
        property contains the existing Cache Valley Mall originally constructed in 1976. The
        underlying zoning of the site is Commercial (COM).

        Note: Refer to the approved Development Plan contained in Design Review Permit 23-047
        (PD-1: Cache Valley Marketplace) for specific project details.

§17.27A.030  Allowed Uses
        The range of permitted and conditional uses allowed in the PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace
        are as listed in Table 17.11.030 for the COM zone as modified below and in 17.27A.040:
        1.  Multi-family residential uses are permitted in a free-standing, live/work or vertical
            mixed use arrangement.

§17.27A.040  Prohibited Uses
        The range of uses prohibited in the PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace are:
        1.  The range of uses currently listed under the Industrial, Other, Utility (excepting out
            utilities necessary for this PD) & Public Use Categories (excepting out day care
            centers, public safety services, and parks/open space) in Table 17.11.030 are prohibited
            in this PD.
        2.  The following uses listed as either Permitted or Conditionally Permitted under the Sales
            and Service Use Category in Table 17.11.030 are prohibited: amusement, animal clinic,
            bar/tavern, pet services, and railroad station.

§17.27A.050  Buildings Approved under this PD Overlay (Reference 23-047)

[page 4]

CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                    August 1, 2023 • Page 27A-2
                                        17.27A: PD-1: Cache Valley Marketplace Project

        A.  Approved Commercial Buildings
            1.  Building A – Approximately 150,000 square feet anchor retailer.
            2.  Building B (Bld. 1) – Approximately 156 room hotel with approximately 21,000
                square feet of ground level commercial space.
        B.  Approved Freestanding Residential Buildings
            1.  Building C (Bld. 2) – 4 story residential building containing 116 dwelling units.
            2.  Building D (Bld. 3) – 4 story residential building containing 92 dwelling units.
            3.  Building E (Bld. 4) – 4 story residential building containing 100 dwelling units.
            4.  Building F (Bld. 5) – 4 story residential building containing 42 dwelling units.
        C.  Other
            1.  Buildings G - J – 4 freestanding, single level garage structures each containing 11
                garage stalls that are accessory to the residential construction.

§17.27A.060  Approved Residential Densities & Unit Count
        The approved Development Plan includes 346 residential units for an overall density of
        13.5 units/acre (25.5 acre site).

§17.27A.070  Development Standards - Commercial Component
        All commercial development shall comply with the minimum development standards
        contained in the Land Development Code.

§17.27A.080  Development Standards – Residential Component
        All residential development shall comply with the minimum development standards
        contained in the Land Development Code with the following exceptions:
        1.  Freestanding residential buildings with ground floor residential units are permitted in
            this Planned Development.
        2,  Building Setbacks: Residential buildings approved with a 10' setback from all property
            lines except buildings 3 & 4 which were approved with a 15' setback from the property
            line along 200 East.
        3.  Building Heights: Maximum building height at the front, side, & rear setbacks is 60'.
        4.  Ground Floor Height: Minimum ground floor height is 9'.

§17.27A.090  Useable Outdoor Space and Landscaping Standards
        The approved Development Plan shall comply with the following minimum useable
        outdoor space and landscaping standards:

        Development Type      | Minimum Area Required for Useable Outdoor Space (gross land area) | Minimum Area Required for Landscaping (gross land area)
        Multi-Family Residential | 10% | 20%
        Commercial            | 10% | 10%

        Subject to the following exception:
        1.  Pursuant to LDC 17.32.140, up to 5% of the minimum area required for either
            landscaping or useable outdoor space, or the equivalent thereof, may be provided of-
            site as determined by the City in a location close enough to benefit future residents of
            this Planned Development.

§17.27A.100  Access and Parking Design

[page 5]

CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                    August 1, 2023 • Page 27A-3
                                        17.27A: PD-1: Cache Valley Marketplace Project

        1.  The approved Development Plan shall comply with the minimum parking requirements
            based on use type for the commercial areas, and the bedroom counts for the residential
            areas as enumerated in LDC 17.31.040 (commercial) and 17.10.08 (residential).
        2.  The overall project provides approximately 1,375 parking stalls which is approximately
            120% of the required parking stalls (1,140 – 1,168), and less than the 125% threshold
            listed in LDC 17.32.080.C.3 requiring additional landscaping.
        3.  The proposed public access easement connecting 100 East and Main Street shall remain
            open as a public easement in perpetuity unless both parties agree to eliminate it. All
            maintenance requirements of this public easement are the responsibility of the
            landowner.
        4.  Setbacks for parking areas adjacent to interior lot lines may be reduced to 0'. Setbacks
            for parking areas along 1250 North, 200 East & 1400 North shall be as required in the
            LDC.

§17.27A.110  Signage
        Signage is approved to allow three monument signs not to exceed 11 feet in height and
        containing 108 SF of signage size, with one located along 1400 North, Main Street, and
        1250 North, and a fourth monument sign to be permitted along 200 East provided it meets
        the minimum sign requirement in LDC 17.33. All other signage shall comply with the
        minimum standards contained in the Land Development Code.

§17.27A.120  Compliance with Approved Development Plan
        All site development and building construction shall occur as approved in the PD-1 Cache
        Valley Marketplace Planned Development under Project # 23-047.

§17.27A.130  Compliance with Adopted Land Use Standards & Building Codes
        Unless otherwise modified in this PD overlay, all construction and development contained
        within the PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace Planned Development shall comply with all
        City land use and development standards and building codes as adopted.

[page 6]

                                LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE
                                COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

                MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

DATE:       July 25, 2023
FROM:       Russ Holley, Senior Planner
SUBJECT:    Ordinance #23-28 Cache Valley Marketplace


Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                               Cache Valley Marketplace
Request:                                    Rezone to COM/PD & Code Amendment
Project Address:                            1300 North Main Street
Recommendation of the Planning Commission:  approve

On July 13, 2023, the Planning Commission recommend the Municipal Council approve the Cache Valley
Marketplace

Planning Commissioners vote (6-0):
Motion: Lucero
Second: Peterson
Vote to recommend approval - Yea: Heare, Guth, Lewis, Peterson, Lucero, Croshaw
Nay: none
Abstain: none

Attachments
Ordinance #23-28
Staff Report
PC Meeting Minutes
Slides

[page 7]

PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES
Meeting of July 13th, 2023

PC 23-047 Cache Valley Marketplace [Zone Change, Code Amendment, Subdivision, Design Review]
Mitch Hohlen/Cache Valley Realty LLC, authorized agent/owner are requesting a zone change, code
amendment, subdivision, and design review permit to redevelop the Cache Valley Mall Site that will
include the demolition of the existing mall, the construction of a new 205 million dollar mixed-use project
containing a 150,000 square foot retailer, 346 multi-family residential units, a 156 room hotel with 21,000
square feet of ground floor commercial, a new public right of way connecting Main Street and 200 East,
and a six lot subdivision on a total of 28.62 acres located at 1300 N Main Street in the Commercial (COM)
zone; TIN 05-0147-0078 (Adams Neighborhood).

STAFF:  Mike DeSimone, Community Development Director reviewed the four elements of this request
that include a request to rezone the site with the Planned Development Overlay, a text amendment to the
Land Development Code to create the PD-1, Cache Valley Marketplace that will define the future
development on the site,  a six-lot subdivision, and the Design Review Permit.

A Concept Plan was reviewed by both Planning Commission and City Council and came back with
recommendations for more or better consolidated open space near the residential, accessibility to transit
stops on Main Street and 200 East, pedestrian circulation throughout the site, and signage.

All proposed uses are permitted in the Commercial Zone.  The Land Development Code allows a density
of 30 units per gross acre in the Commercial Zone. At a total of 25.5 acres and a proposed 346 residential
units, the overall density is 13.5 units per acre.
The Commercial Zone requires all residential buildings to contain a commercial land use on the ground
floor and the proposed PD Overlay would waive this requirement.

The Land Development Code requires a 40-foot front setback for buildings taller than 41 feet.  The
proposed multi-family buildings are approximately 58 feet tall; the hotel building is 52 feet tall, and both
are shown with front setbacks of less than 40 feet.  The applicant proposes that the PD Overlay modify
these height and setback regulations to allow the project layout as designed.

The Land Development Code limits building heights to 55 feet in the Commercial zone with enhanced
setbacks.  At mid-gable, the four-story apartment building is approximately 58 feet tall.  The PD Overlay is
being proposed to modify these height regulations to allow for the project as
shown.

As proposed the project complies with building frontage, lot coverage, parking requirements, and building
elevations.

The 25.5-acre property (1,110,780 SF) is broken up into four areas, two commercial and two multi-family.
The commercial areas total 722,225 SF and would require 144,444 SF (20%) of outdoor space and
landscaping. The multifamily areas total 388,555 SF and would require 116,566 SF (30%) of useable
outdoor space and landscaping. Based on the two standards and two different development-type areas,
the project would be required a total of 261,010 SF of landscaping and useable outdoor space. The PD
Overlay includes the ability to place up to 5% of the required useable outdoor space offsite to a future
park located to the south behind PetSmart.

Based on street frontages and property width, the project would be allowed up to six (6) monument signs
at eight feet tall and 72 SF in size. As per the development plan request, the applicant is proposing three
signs at 16 feet tall and 15 feet wide (double the standard) with one on each frontage (1400 N, Main, 1250
N). Staff is recommending that the City consider approving a slightly larger sign size than what is

[page 8]

permitted in the code for a reduced number of signs and views this as a reasonable tradeoff and
appropriate to the overall size and scale of the project. Staff is recommending that in lieu of six monument
signs, the project be entitled to three eleven-foot-tall signs with 108 SF, one for each of the three
frontages, as well as one standard-sized monument sign on 200 East.

The technical issues with the infrastructure and utilities that are currently being worked through with the
City include a Traffic Impact Study to identify impacts, deficiencies, and improvements.  Water modeling
to determine availability, demand, and fire flow.  Stormwater for onsite detention/retention.  Light and
Power to evaluate existing systems, and Streets for points of access and right of way.

More Multi-Family housing is needed because Logan's average annual growth rate is 1.2 %.  In the last
10 years, Logan has added 4,600 new people, and in the last 20 years, there have been 10,000 new
residents who need to live somewhere.  In the last ten years, there have been just under 3,000 new units
permitted by Logan. Approximately 85% of Logan's population growth is internally generated.  By 2030
there will be an additional 6,000 – 12,000 new residents.  There has been a housing supply shortage
since 2008.

This is a good project in a good location. This is the fifth development team to put the Mall under contract
and get this far in the redevelopment process.  This project is a big investment in the community that will
improve the tax base, will create new jobs, new housing, and is a significant economic benefit to
surrounding businesses.  It locates affordable housing near services to reduce car traffic and is walkable
for new and existing residents.  It implements the Logan General Plan and the Adams Neighborhood
Plan.

Commissioner Peterson asked about adding consolidated park space. Mike DeSimone said that the City-
owned property behind PetSmart is being planned for a park that will be accessible to the residents of this
development.

Commissioner Guth asked about the residential building façade designs not being repetitive in their
designs.  M. DeSimone said there is enough variation in the facades to satisfy the code requirements.

Commissioner Lucero asked if the proposed parking for the residential east of the big box is enough.  M.
DeSimone said there is enough parking. The LDC requires 1,140 parking stalls while the overall project
includes 1,375 parking stalls.

Commissioner Croshaw asked if the apartments will be low-income housing.  M. DeSimone said that 10%
of the units have to be affordable housing units for residents that are at or below 80% of the Area Median
Income (AMI).

Commissioner Guth asked if additional crosswalks could be added along 200 East for better pedestrian
connectivity.  M. DeSimone said that will depend on the traffic study and if there is a traffic light needed at
1250 North.

PROPONENT:  Drew Snider said that the existing mall is only 20-30% occupied with all of the anchor
stores vacant.  The enclosed mall business is a broken business model at this point, and it is not feasible
to revive.  They have been working with the existing tenants to get them out of the Mall to create a clean
slate to demolish the property and bring in a new anchor retailer.  This is the 26th concept site plan, there
have been many changes and discussions with this project.  If everything is approved, they are planning
to start demolition next spring.

PUBLIC:  Marilyn Griffin asked what the impacts of this development will be on the neighborhood, If any
traffic calming measures should be taken, and if there could be more time allowed for the public to digest
the proposed project.

[page 9]

Ron Devenish spoke about his concern with the amount of increased traffic on 200 East.

Blake Cameron who owns the Dentist's Office directly to the northeast of the proposed big box store has
concerns with their access off 1400 North being moved and being shared with the trucks delivering to the
big box store.

Todd Yates who owns the 8th and Main store said this will be a great improvement to the Mall site.  He
wants to make sure that their easements off Main Street and 1250 North will remain.

Mike Johnson said this is a great project.  He spoke about the green space being consolidated into an
area that people would want to be in, a place where he could hang out with his young daughter while his
wife is shopping.

Joel Nelson said that the existing Mall is still offering healthy community spaces.  Where will these spaces
be located in the future.

Zayden Hunlow who is a student at USU said he loves this area and wants to see it grow and be beautiful.

Mark Weese spoke about the traffic concern on 200 East.

Donna Barry asked about the setback and the aesthetics of all new buildings looking the same.

COMMISSION:  Commissioner Heare addressed the public comments and spoke about the Adams
Neighborhood meeting that was held with the developer to inform the residents of the proposed project
and address their questions and concerns.  A Traffic Study is underway to determine if additional traffic
will trigger any type of road widening, turn lanes, or traffic lights.  The Mall property and the adjacent
properties will have to work out their shared access and easements.

Commissioner Guth said there needs to be more consolidated green space the proposal feels very car-
centric.  There is an excess of parking that could be used for green space.

Mitch Hohlen/Drew Snyder, proponents said that they are not asking for any variances in useable outdoor
space, or landscaping.  They also do not want an issue with parking overflowing from the multi-family
apartments into the Adams Neighborhood.  With a site plan this large, it is easy to lose perspective on
how large the green spaces are.  All the sidewalks are oversized to allow people to walk throughout the
site on a sidewalk and there are four large useable outdoor space areas throughout the site.  There are
2.55 acres (10%) of useable outdoor space and approximately 4 acres of landscaping.  There is also an
existing shopping center declaration that involves every parcel on the Mall site that lays out the parking
agreements and easements that have to be maintained throughout the site.  There are also separate
agreements between the Mall and the adjacent businesses that will have to be amended.

Commissioner Lucero asked if the trees along 200 East could be increased.  Mr. Hohlen said the trees will
be planted to City requirements.  They want the residents that are living there to feel comfortable and
have a buffer to the street.  M. DeSimone said that the proposal meets the landscape requirement for the
Commercial and Multi-Family zone.

Commissioner Peterson asked about the semi-trucks having to exit right onto 1400 North and then turn
right onto 200 East towards the middle school and asked if any streets in Logan restrict semi-truck traffic.
 Darren Farar, City Engineer said there are not many roads that restrict truck traffic, and said that the
Traffic Study will help determine where the truck traffic should go.

The Commission discussed needing to know the exact setbacks that are being proposed. Drew Snider
said that per their engineer the setbacks are at 20 feet from 200 East and 1250 North.   Commissioner
Lewis said that he would rather they keep the 20-foot setback and create more useable green space near

[page 10]

the apartments using some of the extra 300 parking spaces.  Mr. Hohlen said that there is substantial
green space surrounding the apartments and that they cannot reduce the parking because there is a
certain number of shared stalls that are required per the declaration.  Commissioner Guth stated that the
green space behind the garages where the dog park is located is not where people want to spend their
time and asked if they could reduce the dog park area and add that green space to the west side of the
apartment buildings along 200 East.  Mr. Snyder said he doesn't have an issue moving 15 feet of green
space from behind the garages, shifting the garages to the west and adding that green space along the
west side of the apartment buildings on 200 East as long as it doesn't affect the access point off 1400
North.

The Commission amended condition number 8 to allow a 15-foot setback from the property line along 200
East for buildings 3 & 4.  The other residential buildings are approved with a 10-foot setback from all
property lines. Condition number 13 was amended to say that there will be at least 25 feet in depth of
greenspace along the west side of the two residential buildings (3 & 4) fronting 200 East.
The Commission also approved the deviation in the sizes of the proposed monument signs to permit three
monument signs 11' in height with a panel size of 108 SF on 1250 North, Main Street and 1400 North. M.
DeSimone explained that this sign deviation would be codified in the proposed 17.27A. PD-1 LDC
language.


MOTION: Commissioner Lucero made a motion to Conditionally Approve a Design Review and
Subdivision Permit for PC 23-047 Cache Valley Marketplace with the amended conditions of approval as
discussed above and findings for approval as listed below.  Commissioner Peterson seconded the motion.

AMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL OF THE SUBDIVISION & DESIGN REVIEW PERMIT
        1.  All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Design Review Permit and are
            available in the Community Development Department.
        2.  The Design Review Permit is subject to the final approval, by the Municipal Council, of the
            pending Ordinance 23-22 approving the proposed LDC amendment creating the Planned
            Development process. Substantive changes to the enabling legislation contained in Ordinance 23-
            22 may require that this project, including the Design Review Permit, Subdivision Permit, Rezone
            and Code Amendment, to be re-considered by the Planning Commission.
        3.  The Planning Commission conditionally approves a four (4) lot subdivision, big box retail building,
            a hotel/retail building and 346 residential dwelling units on a total 25.5-acre site.
        4.  The specific land use and development standards approved as part of the PD-1 supersede the
            relevant standards contained in the LDC.
        5.  All future commercial businesses and land uses shall comply with the approved PD-1 Cache
            Valley Marketplace and the Commercial Land Use Table. Business licenses prior to operation.
        6.  Any changes to the approved PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace PD are required to amend the
            original PD-1 through the same approval process.
        7.  The Planned Development (PD) Overlay rezone and code amendment must be formally adopted
            by the Logan City Council or the Design Review and Subdivision Permits become null and void.
        8.  Building setbacks and heights are approved pending code amendment adoption (See
            17.27A.080.2: Residential buildings approved with a 10' setback from all property lines,
            except buildings 3 & 4 which were approved with a 15' setback from the property line along
            200 East).
        9.  The project shall provide a minimum of 1140 parking stalls and bike racks for each building as per
            LDC.
        10. The project shall provide a bus stop amenity along Main Street (Green and Blue Line) and a
            continuous pedestrian way with sidewalks and painted raised crossings to both the big box and
            retail buildings and the 200 East bus stops.
        11. A raised painted crossing shall be installed between the west side of the big box and the west side
            of the retail building. Additional sidewalks shall be installed so that all multi-family units can walk
            on either a sidewalk or painted crossing to the big-box and hotel/retail building.

[page 11]

        12. The signage plan is approved to allow three monument signs not to exceed 11 feet in height and
            containing 108 SF of signage size, with one located along 1400 North, Main Street, and 1250
            North, and a fourth monument sign to be permitted along 200 East provided it meets the minimum
            sign requirement in LDC 17.33.
        13. [struck: 13.] Multiple landscaping areas shown shall be consolidated and combined to create a larger and more
            meaningful landscaped/useable outdoor space at least 25' in depth along the west side of
            buildings 3 & 4 (two residential buildings fronting 200 East) [struck: near the multi-family buildings.]
        14. A performance landscaping plan, prepared in accordance with §17.39 of the LDC, shall be
            submitted for approval to the Community Development Department prior to the issuance of the
            building permit. The plan shall include the following:
        15. Landscaping and Useable Outdoor areas shall total a minimum of 261,010 SF.
        16. Landscaping and Outdoor Space shall be provided in a relative proportionate manner per lot or
            per phase.
        17. 510 trees and 1,275 shrubs/perennials/grasses shall be provided for this project.
        18. 18 SF of interior parking lot landscaping shall be provided per parking stall contained within the
            surface parking area as per LDC.
        19. A landscape buffers shall be used in parking lot perimeter areas.
        20. All dumpsters shall be visually screened or buffered from public streets by using fencing, walls and
            landscaping.
        21. Rooftop mechanical and/or building wall mechanical equipment shall be placed out of view from
            the street or screen from view from the street.
        22. Exterior lighting shall be concealed source, down-cast and shall not illuminate or cast light onto
            adjacent properties.
        23. No signs are approved with this Design Review Permit. All signage shall be approved and
            permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code and consistent with the
            approved PD-1.
        24. Surface storm-water retention and detention facilities shall be located away from public streets
            and buffered from view with landscaping.
        25. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the Director of Community Development shall receive a
            written memorandum from each of the following departments or agencies indicating that their
            requirements have been satisfied:
        a. Environmental —contact 716-9761
            1.  Minimum 60 ft. straight on clear access required. Approach must be level, no down or
                uphill slopes and no parking spaces or curb blocking access.
            2.  Minimum inside measurement for a double enclosure is 24 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
                Minimum inside measurement for a single enclosure is 12 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
            3.  Place bollards in the back of the enclosure to protect walls.
            4.  Gates are not required, however if desired, they must be designed to stay open during the
                collection process.
            5.  Barrel hinges are suggested for the gates. We need the full 12 ft. clearance so gates must
                be designed to open completely.
        b. Engineering —contact 716-9160 (as updated by PW for 7/13/23 PC)
            FINAL PLAT
            1.  This development has been identified as a multi lot subdivision and as such shall provide a
                subdivision plat that meets City standards to be recorded after construction plans have
                been approved and all other City and State requirements have been met.
            2.  All existing easement / right of way lines shall be shown on the plans and plat.
                Improvements shall not infringe upon the rights of an existing easement / right of way /
                property owned by others without their written permission.
            3.  Dedicate a 10' Public Utility Easement along all City street frontages if not already existing,
                and dedicate a 5' Public Utility Easement along each side of all internal, side, and rear
                property lines.

[page 12]

            4.  Existing City easements to be abandoned shall be abandoned through the City's
                Easement Vacation process.  Shared access easements that exist to properties not a part
                of the subdivision shall remain or be replaced with an equivalent easement.
            5.  There are a number of access easements identified as being dedicated or vacated.
                Language shall be identified on the plat to more specifically identify and dedicate the east /
                west access easement to the City and to identify what rights that easement will convey.
            6.  The basis of bearing needs to be tied to established County or City documented
                monuments rather than property corner pins.
            7.  All necessary cross access easements/agreements for private road and private utilities
                across all properties or outside of the project boundary shall be shown on a plat or
                provided to the City by means of a separate dedicating instrument prior to recording for
                review and approval.
            8.  All entities that are affected by property line adjustments need to be included as signers on
                the final plat (for example Texas Roadhouse, etc.).
            9.  CC&R's shall include language that addresses the requirement of the POA / property
                owners to maintain any private water lines, private sewer lines, common areas, parking
                areas, and the Storm Water management system, basins, swales, and related
                infrastructure along with the adjacent right-of-way park strips.
            10. The City will require all affected Irrigation companies to provide a signature approval on all
                final construction plans and final plats.
        a.  GENERAL
            11. Additional water shares or in-lieu fee for indoor and outdoor increased water demands
                shall be provided to the City in accordance with City Code 17.29.210 and Utah
                Administrative Rule R309-510-7.
            12. Provide a Development Agreement and Financial Surety of at least 110% of the cost to
                construct all infrastructure & storm water improvements. Financial assurances shall not
                expire for a minimum of 2 years from date of City acceptance.
            13. Provide a Geotechnical Report that includes but is not limited to: 1) Historical high ground
                water elevation, and 2) Percolation rate of soils at bottom of all storm water retention
                ponds.
            14. A "Preconstruction meeting" shall be held with the City's Engineering Division prior to
                starting construction activities and a "Work in the Right of Way" permit shall be obtained
                for all work in the City's right-of-way and PUE prior to scheduling the Preconstruction
                meeting.
            15. The City may elect to have a 3rd party review technical studies such as a traffic study,
                floodplain study, noise study, vibration study, etc. provided in support of the development.
                Reasonable costs associated with the third-party review shall be borne by the applicant.
            16. This project is located in a Zone 4 water source protection zone and shall be designed to
                comply with all City codes and requirements related to source protection zone restrictions.
        a.  UTILITIES
            17. All utilities outside of the public right-of-way way shall be private lines and shall be owned,
                maintained, repaired/replaced by Property Owners Association.  All infrastructure shall be
                installed, maintained, and repaired/replaced in accordance with Logan City Standards.
            18. A private Water Utility agreement shall be provided for all private water and sewer lines
                (including fire lines) not located withing a Public Right of Way.  The agreement shall be
                recorded with the County Recorder.
            19. All buildings shall have separate water service and sewer service connections to water
                distribution and sewer collection systems.
            20. Fire hydrants locations shall meet the Fire Code requirements as determined by the City's
                Fire Marshall.
            21. All existing water and sewer service lines extending to the site that are not proposed to be
                used with the new development shall be capped at the City main line.
            22. Provide a water and sewer analysis that identifies existing and proposed usage and
                generation volumes.

[page 13]

        a.  STORMWATER / IRRIGATION
            23. Storm water detention/retention shall be designed and constructed according to Logan
                City standards.  This includes the retention of stormwater from any adjacent street that
                currently discharges to the property.  Retention of the 90% storm event is required and
                shall be provided using Low Impact design methods.
            24. The development shall either incorporate into its stormwater design or pass through in a
                historical manner any stormwater that flows onto the property from adjacent properties and
                rights of way.
            25. Provide a stormwater maintenance agreement for City Review, approval, and recordation
                at County Recorder's Office.
            26. Property is greater than 1 acre so compliance with the State Storm Water Permit is
                required.  Development shall also provide a sediment and erosion control plan for all
                construction activities.
            27. Maintain the capacity, size, and location of all existing irrigation system infrastructure
                along and within the project; or where irrigation infrastructure is required to be relocated or
                changed, improve the infrastructure to the irrigation company standards.
            28. This development is located in an area of high-water table (0 to 24 inches) and classified
                as having moderate liquefaction potential; given the high groundwater elevations in the
                area, additional stormwater pond area (volume) may be required to comply with the City's
                storm water management standards.
            29. Stormwater basins shall not be located on residential lots.  A dedicated parcel for
                stormwater management shall be provided and language added to the CC&Rs indicating
                that the storm water systems and ponds shall be maintained by the POA.
            30. Stormwater basins shall be designed to be 1 foot above the groundwater elevation.
                Basins that are found to be constantly wet due to groundwater shall be made shallow and
                widened to meet the City's standard.
            31. The minimum diameter of storm drain piping in a City right of way shall be 15 inches
                unless a larger size is required by the design.
        a.  STREETS
            32. A traffic impact study shall be completed by a 3rd party consultant hired by the City and
                paid for by the developer.  The developer shall follow and be responsible for all
                recommendations identified in the study, these recommendations may be both on-site or
                off-site.
            33. Identify the current width of rights-of-way on the plat and provide information on the plat to
                reference the document that dedicated each right-of-way.
            34. There is discrepancy in regard to the location of the right of way line on Cache Valley Blvd
                (1250 North) and 200 East.  Dedicate by quit claim or warranty deed property sufficient to
                extend a distance of 1 foot beyond the sidewalk or to the standard right of way width for
                the applicable functional classification of roadway if a sidewalk doesn't exist or is built out
                of 'typical' alignment.
            35. Access improvements, additions, or relocations to the development shall be made in
                accordance with Logan Design Standards.
            36. Where existing asphalt, curb & gutter, or sidewalk adjacent to a project boundary are
                found to be in poor condition with regards to thickness, cracking, or other damage, or is
                damaged during construction; owner shall reconstruct the improvements out to an area
                where the improvements are in satisfactory condition.  Where asphalt is required to be
                remedied, a minimum width of 3 feet shall be removed and replaced and shall not leave a
                smaller than 3 foot width to the edge and shall be continuous in nature rather than
                performed in several small pieces. Additional asphalt may be required to be replaced if a
                standard cross slope (2-4%) cannot be achieved with a minimum 3 foot replacement.
            37. Development shall comply with all UDOT requirements associated with regards to access
                on Main Street.
        c. Water —contact 716-9627

[page 14]

            1.  All commercial buildings water mains need to have their own RP (ASSE1013)
                backflow assembly installed and tested on the water main as it enters the building
                before any branch offs or possible connections inside or outside of building. All
                backflow assemblies must be tested within 10 days of turning water into them and
                annually thereafter. Refer to 2018 IPC Utah State Amendment #
                608.1.1,608.1.2,608.1.2.1 for installation criteria. Properly sized drain required to
                serve RP backflow assemblies. Residential water services or (mains) must be totally
                separated from any commercial water mains. If residential buildings are three levels
                above finish grade or higher (water meter elevation), their water main/s must have a
                minimum DC (ASSE1015) backflow assembly on the water main/s before any
                branch offs, or possible connections. Separate any residential and commercial water
                systems (services).
            1.  All privately or commonly owned landscape irrigation system's fed from Logan
                City water must have a high hazard rated backflow assembly installed and tested. No
                dual source feed systems ever allowed to be connected together at any given time.
                Logan Cities prior approval is needed for a "swing joint system". Installation criteria is
                annually tested RP assembly (city water) & swing joint. This must be inspected
                annually and passed by Logan City's backflow inspector.
            2.  Fire suppression systems that are connected to Logan City water (with no
                added chemicals) must have a minimum DC (ASSE1015) backflow assembly
                installed and tested. Fire risers and all B/F assemblies must be installed and tested
                as per Logan City standards.
            3.  Project shall comply with all current Utah State plumbing codes, amendments
                and Utah Admin. code R 309-105-12-(1) rules and regulations including, but not
                limited to, those pertaining to backflow prevention and cross connection protection,
                during and after construction, for the safety of the water and its consumption.
        d. Fire—contact 716-9515
            1.  Fire apparatus access, Fire hydrants required, Required fire flow compared to
                available fire flow, Fire sprinklers, Fire Alarms, etc will be evaluated and reviewed with
                the building permit
        e. Building —contact 716-9032
            2.  Submittals after July 1st will be on the 2021 I Codes

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF THE SUBDIVISION & DESIGN REVIEW PERMIT
        1.  The conditioned project will not interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent
            properties
        2.  because of the building design, site layout, height transitions, landscaping, and
            setbacks.
        3.  The Design Review and Subdivision Permit conforms to the requirements of Title
            17 of the Logan Municipal Code.
        4.  The conditioned project provides required off-street parking.
        5.  The project meets the goals and objectives of the COM designation within the
            Logan General Plan by providing services near high-capacity roadways and is
            designed in way for easy circulation of both pedestrian and vehicles.
        6.  The conditioned project complies with density and building design, open space
            standards and is in conformance with Title 17.
        7.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land
            Development Code and the Municipal Code.
        8.  Main Street, 1250 North, 1400 East, 200 East are adequate in size and design to
            sufficiently handle infrastructure related to the proposed land uses.

MOTION: Commissioner Lucero made a motion to Forward a Recommendation of Approval for a Code
Amendment and Zone Change for PC 23-047 Cache Valley Marketplace with the finding for approval as
listed below.  Commissioner Peterson seconded the motion.

[page 15]

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF THE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY
REZONE AND CODE AMENDMENT
        1.  The Rezone and Code Amendments are done in conformance with the requirements of Title 17 of the
            Logan Municipal Code.
        2.  Utah State Law authorizes local Planning Commissions to recommend rezones and Ordinance
            changes to the legislative body (Municipal Council.
        3.  The proposed Planned Development Overlay Zone and Code Amendments are consistent with the
            Logan City General Plan.
        4.  The proposed Planned Development Overlay and project are consistent with the pending legislation
            before the Municipal Council.
        5.  The proposed Code Amendments provide the regulatory platform for adopting and implementing a
            Planned Development project important for revitalizing a blighted and underutilized commercial area
            of Logan.
        6.  The proposed overlay and Code Amendments provide additional affordable housing.
        7.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land Development Code and the
            Municipal Code

Moved: J. Lucero              Seconded: E. Peterson              Approved: 6-0

Yea: Heare, Guth, Lucero, Croshaw, Lewis, Peterson          Nay:              Abstain:

[page 16]

                                LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE
                                COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
                                                        Project #23-047
                                                        Cache Valley Marketplace
                                                        Located at approximately 1300 North Main

REPORT SUMMARY...
Project Name:                   Cache Valley Marketplace
Proponent / Owner:              Mitch Hohlen / Cache Valley Realty LLC
Project Address:                1300 North Main Street
Request:                        Design Review, Subdivision, Code Amendment, Rezone
Current Zoning:                 Commercial (COM)
Type of Action:                 Quasi-Judicial & Legislative
Hearing Date                    July 13, 2023
Submitted By:                   Russ Holley, Senior Planner

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission conditionally approve a Design Review &
Subdivision Permit for Project #23-047 Cache Valley Marketplace and recommend approval of
a rezone for a Planned Development Overlay and a Code Amendment, in the Commercial
(COM) zone located at approximately 1300 North Main Street, TIN# 05-014-0078

Current Land use adjoining the subject property
North:  COM: Commercial Uses          East:  COM/MR: Com/Residential Uses
South:  COM: Commercial Uses          West:  COM: Commercial Uses

Project Proposal
This is a proposal to redevelop the existing 25.5-acre Cache Valley Mall site into a 150,000 SF
big-box retailer, 156 room hotel/retail building, 346 multi-family residential units and associated
parking and landscaping. The original mall site, at nearly 40-acres, has been subdivided
separating the outer pad-sites and commercial stores. Even with the pad site developments
along the surrounding streets, the 25-5-acre site still retains street frontage on Main Street,
1400 North, 1250 North and 200 East. This proposal includes demolishing the entire Cache
Valley Mall and constructing six (6) new buildings. Accessory garage buildings are proposed
near the multi-family residences.

[site plan image — no text]
Legible labels on site plan: E 1400 N; HIGHWAY 91 / MAIN STREET; N 200 E; E 1250 N; PROP LOT #1 1.16 AC; PROP LOT #2 11.35 AC; "147,600 S.F. NEW RETAIL ANCHOR"; PROP LOT #3 5.39 AC; PROP LOT #4 4.46 AC; 4-STORY APT (109 UNITS); 4-STORY APT (42 UNITS); 4-STORY APT (92 UNITS); 192 TOTAL UNITS (LOT #4); GARAGES; POOL; EXIST. COM ZONING; PROP 'PD' ZONING OVERLAY; NEW SITE SIGN; PROP LAND SWAP.
DEVELOPMENT SUMMARY (PD OVERLAY AREA): GROSS DEVELOPMENT AREA: 25.5 ACRES; PROPOSED COMMERCIAL AREA: 16.3 ACRES; PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL AREA: 9.18 ACRES; PROPOSED DWELLINGS: 346 UNITS; PROPOSED DENSITY: 13.57 UNITS / ACRE.
PARKING SUMMARY (PD OVERLAY AREA): RESIDENTIAL - 1 BEDROOM UNITS: 312 SPACES (208 UNITS @ 1.5 EA.); 2 BEDROOM UNITS: 276 SPACES (138 UNITS @ 2.0 EA.); HOTEL: 156 SPACES (1 PER GUEST ROOM); BIG BOX SPACES REQUIRED: 296 SPACES (1 PER 500 S.F.); RESTAURANT (6K S.F.): 40 SPACES (1 PER 150 S.F.); GENERAL COMMERCIAL (15K S.F.): 60 SPACES (1 PER 250 S.F.); TOTAL PARKING REQUIRED: 1,140 SPACES. TOTAL PARKING PROVIDED: 1,375 SPACES (INCL. 97 GARAGES).

                                        - 1 -

[page 17]

Figure 1 shows the proposed site plan

Planned Development Overlay Zone
The Logan City Land Development Code (LDC) entitles property within the Commercial (COM)
to a wide range of commercial uses, residential uses, and development configurations. The
(Pending) Planned Development Overlay Zone (PD Overlay) permits additional or different
development configurations associated with a specific PD project. The PD Overlay zone is
proposed to overlay the existing base COM zone. The additional overlay zone and
accompanying code amendment is specifically tied to the 25.5-acre project site. If this proposed
rezone is adopted, the Official Zoning Map will be amended with a Planned Development
Overlay on this site with COM remaining as the base zone. Unless specifically cited to modify or
waive COM regulations in the proposed 17.27A. PD Overlay code sections, the base zone COM
requirements still apply to the project.

[rendering image — no text]
Figure 2 shows rendering of the proposed project looking northeast

Planned Development Code Amendment
Chapter 17.27.A. PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace proposes new language associated with this
project proposal. The Planning Commission will review the proposed PD overlay code
amendments and make a recommendation to the City Council who ultimately have approval
authority over all PD Overlay code amendments. PD Overlay code amendments shall include a
purpose, intent, applicability, range of uses, improvement descriptions, and development
standards. The purpose of the Planned Development (PD) Overlay Zone is to allow for flexibility
and discretion in the application of the City's zoning and development regulations in order to
allow for unique, innovative and well-planned developments that would not be possible under
one of the City's existing zoning designations. Unless specifically cited to modify or waive
regulation in 17.27.A PD Overlay code sections, base zone COM requirements still apply to the
project.

Concept Plan Review
The pending Planned Development overlay code language establishes a Concept Plan Review
process which requires an applicant to submit a conceptual development plan to the Planning
Commission and Council for feedback. The applicant presented the concept plan to both the
Logan City Planning Commission and Municipal Council for review and feedback. No formal
action was taken at this phase in the process and with generally positive feedback, the applicant
was encouraged to further refine the project and then submit formal applications for
consideration by the City.  The general feedback from both the Planning Commission and City
Council concerned a lack of consolidated open space especially near the residential uses,
transit (bus stop) accessibility, pedestrian circulation throughout the entire site, and the

Project #23-047 Cache Valley Market Place          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of July 13, 2023
                                        - 2 -

[page 18]

requested sizing of the proposed signage.  All other general deviations or requests from the
project developers were deemed acceptable.

Subdivision Permit
The applicant is proposing a (4) four-lot subdivision (lot 8 amendment) that creates four
buildable areas, one for the big box, one for the hotel/retail, one for two multi-family buildings
and the remaining lot for the final two multi-family buildings. The COM zone does not have
minimum lot sizes or widths and simply requires compliance to development standards per lot.
Binding cross easements can account for per-lot deficiencies with overall project compliance
approvals. As conditioned with overall compliance to applicable development standards in the
COM zone, the project meets the requirements of the LDC.

Design Review Permit
The LDC 17.43 requires a Design Review Permit for new commercial and multi-family
residential developments. The Design Review Permit assures compliance with adopted code
standards and design specifications applicable to the project proposal. The Planning
Commission is the Land Use Authority on Design Review Permits.

Density & Land Use
The LDC allows a density of 30 units per gross acre in the COM zone. At a total of 25.5 acres,
and a proposed 346 residential units, the overall density is 13.5 units per acre. The multi-family
buildings are shown as stand-alone (freestanding) residential buildings positioned near 200 East
and 1250 North. The COM zone requires all buildings to contain commercial land use, but the
proposed PD Overlay would waive this requirement. The proposed "big box" retail and hotel
land uses and structure types are both permitted in the COM zone. As proposed and if the
rezone and code amendment is adopted, the project complies with density and land use
regulations.

[rendering image — no text]
Legible labels: sign size callouts (e.g. "13'-0" H x 13'-0" W sign", "24" H x 55'-10" W sign", "12" H x 11'-2" W sign", "2'-0" H x 2'-0" W sign", "16'-0" H x 13'-0" W sign", "24" H x 16'-0" W sign").
Figure 3 shows a rendering of the big box front (west) elevation

Setbacks
The Land Development Code (LDC) requirements for setbacks in the COM zone are as follows
(as measured from property lines):
Front (0-40' tall bldg.):       10'
Front (41-55' tall bldg.)       40'
Side:                           8'
Rear:                           10'
Parking (front):                10'
Parking (side/rear):            5'

The proposed project complies with setbacks except for the proposed multi-family buildings
which are shown at approximately 58' tall (mid-gable) and the hotel building is shown at 52' tall,
and both are shown with front setbacks of less than 40'. The PD Overlay is being proposed to
modify these height and setback regulations to allow for the project layout and heights as
designed.

[page 19]

[building elevation image — no text]
Legible labels: 52'-0"; COP FC-1 EFS BR-2.
Figure 3 shows the hotel/retail building west facade

[building elevation image — no text]
Legible labels: COP MP FC-1 FAS FC-2.
Figure 4 shows the multi-family building facades

Building Heights
The LDC 17.10.080 limits building heights to a maximum of 55' in the COM zone with enhanced
setbacks. Ground floor commercial space is required to be at least 12 feet tall. The tallest
building in the proposal is the four-story multi-family apartment building shown at 64 feet tall at
the highest peak. At mid-gable, the LDC allows mid-gable measurement points, the project's
tallest building is approximately 58' tall. The PD Overlay is being proposed to modify these
height regulations to allow for the project as shown.

Building Frontage
The LDC requires a minimum 50% building frontage in the COM zone to help frame streets with
architecture. This requirement also results in surface parking lots being less visually prominent
and more subordinate (rear) to primary buildings. The proposed project has multiple street
frontages. On average the project shows a building frontage of 52% and is in compliance with
this code requirement. As proposed, the project complies with the LDC.

Lot Coverage
The LDC 17.10.100 establishes a maximum lot coverage of 60% (building(s) footprint) in the
COM zone. Collectively, the proposed building footprint(s) are at approximately 27% lot
coverage and below the maximum code regulations. As submitted, the project complies with the
lot coverage maximums in the LDC.

Parking Requirements
The LDC requires 1.0 parking stalls per hotel room, 1.5 - 2.0 stalls per multi-family dwelling units
(1.5 stalls/studio and one-bedroom units and 2.0 stalls/2 bedroom or larger units), 1.0 stalls for
every 250 SF of retail space and 1.0 stalls for every 500 SF of big box stores. Based on the
proposal, 1140 parking stalls are required as per the LDC. The project provides a total of 1,375
parking stalls, including 97 garages stalls for multi-family residents. The LDC 17.31.040 requires
bike racks/parking areas for commercial and residential developments. As conditioned with bike
parking, the project complies with the LDC parking requirements.

Project #23-047 Cache Valley Market Place          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of July 13, 2023
                                        - 4 -

[page 20]

Site Layout & Pedestrian Circulation
The LDC 17.30 require projects to provide pedestrian and street connectivity. The proposed site
layout places the building near the sidewalk edge making walking quick and convenient. Some
areas in the site lack direct and safe pedestrian networks and crossings. As conditioned with
sidewalk connections and walkability throughout the site, including to adjacent bus stop
locations, the project meets the requirements in the LDC.

Building Elevations
The LDC requires commercial projects to have four-sided architecture and a mix of materials.
Acceptable building materials are masonry, stucco, fiber-cement board, wood, and metal.
Material mixes shall wrap all four sides of buildings and blank walls exceeding 40 linear feet are
prohibited. All buildings are shown with a mix of brick, stucco (EFIS), fiber-cement, and metal
materials. The big box is also shown with stone accent materials. As proposed, the project
complies with building material requirements in the LDC.

Useable Outdoor Space and Landscaping
The LDC 17.10.080 requires 10% landscaping and an additional 10% useable outdoor space in
the COM zone, while LDC 17.32.050 requires 10% useable outdoor space and 20%
landscaping for residential developments. The LDC 17.32 generally describes useable outdoor
space as outdoor areas that are designed and used in conjunction with a primary use for the
benefit and enjoyment of the residents and their guests of the development. Useable outdoor
space may include public gathering areas, patios, decks, walkways, plaza's, active recreational
areas, and natural open space areas but do not include parking lots, driveways, and other
similar vehicular oriented areas. Landscaping is defined as planted and natural areas contained
trees, shrubs, grasses, mulches, and other similar materials.

The LDC requires a minimum of 20 trees and a combination of 50 shrubs, flowers and
ornamental grasses per acre of land for multi-family residential projects. The LDC also requires
minimum perimeter and interior parking lot landscaping to reduce the visual and environmental
impacts of asphalt parking lots. At 25.5 acres, 510 trees and 1,275 shrubs/flowers/grasses are
required.

The 25.5-acre property (1,110,780 SF) is broken up into four areas, two commercial and two
multi-family. The commercial areas total 722,225 SF and would require 144,444 SF (20%) of
both outdoor space and landscaping. The multifamily areas total 388,555 SF and would require
116,566 SF (30%) of both outdoor space and landscaping. Based on the two standards and two
different development type areas, the project would be required a grand total of 261,010 SF of
landscaping and outdoor space. As conditioned with full landscaping and outdoor space
requirements and a more meaningful gathering area near the residences, the project meets the
requirements of the LDC.

Signage
The LDC 17.33 allows different sign types and sign sizes based on street frontage and building
size. Based on street frontages and property width, the project would be allowed up to six (6)
monument signs at eight feet tall and 72 SF in size. As per the development plan request, the
applicant is proposing three signs at 16 feet tall and 15 feet wide (double the standard) with one
on each frontage (1400 N, Main, 1250 N). Staff is recommending that the City consider
approving a slightly larger sign size than what is permitted in the code for a reduced number of
signs and views this as a reasonable tradeoff and appropriate to the overall size and scale of
the project. Staff is recommending that the project be entitled to three eleven-foot-tall signs with
108 SF, one for each of the three frontages, and one standard sized monument sign on 200
East rather than a total of six signs. Building signage would remain as permitted in the LDC for
commercial and multi-family development types. The signage allowance will need to be adopted
within the PD Overlay if anything different than standard sign code allowances are given. As
conditioned, the project meets the requirements in the LDC.

Project #23-047 Cache Valley Market Place          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of July 13, 2023
                                        - 5 -

[page 21]

Lighting
The LDC 17.37.090 requires adequate lighting that adds aesthetic quality and improves safety
while mitigating unnecessary glare, sky glow and light trespass. The LDC limits freestanding
pole height to 32 feet and luminaire fixtures on buildings and canopies to be concealed source,
down-cast and shielded from neighboring properties. Light measurements are required to range
between 0.5 – 4.0-foot candles, so areas are sufficiently safe, but not excessively bright. As
submitted, no exterior lighting has been shown. As conditioned, the project meets the
requirements of the LDC.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
Comments were solicited from the following departments or agencies:

•  Environmental          •  Water
•  Fire                   •  Engineering
•  Light and Power

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. Any comments
received at the time of report preparation are included with the packet.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 7/1/23, posted on the City's website and
the Utah Public Meeting website on 7/3/23 and mailed out to adjacent property owners within
300' on 6/26/23.

RECOMMENDED MOTION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission Conditionally Approve a Design Review &
Subdivision Permit for Project #23-047 Cache Valley Marketplace subject to the following
recommended conditions of approval and findings of fact for the Design Review and Subdivision
Permits,

and

Recommend Approval for the Planned Development Overlay rezone and PD-1 Code
Amendment, in the Commercial (COM) zone subject to the recommended findings of fact,

for

Property located at approximately 1300 North Main Street, TIN# 05-014-0078.

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL for the DESIGN REVIEW AND
SUBDIVISION PERMITS
This project is subject to the proponent or property owner agreeing to comply with the following
conditions as written, or as may be amended by the Planning Commission.
        1.  All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Design Review Permit and
            are available in the Community Development Department.
        2.  The Design Review Permit is subject to the final approval, by the Municipal Council, of
            the pending Ordinance 23-22 approving the proposed LDC amendment creating the
            Planned Development process. Substantive changes to the enabling legislation
            contained in Ordinance 23-22 may require that this project, including the Design Review
            Permit, Subdivision Permit, Rezone and Code Amendment, to be re-considered by the
            Planning Commission.
        3.  The Planning Commission conditionally approves a four (4) lot subdivision, big box retail
            building, a hotel/retail building and 346 residential dwelling units on a total 25.5-acre site.
        4.  The specific land use and development standards approved as part of the PD-1
            supersede the relevant standards contained in the LDC.

Project #23-047 Cache Valley Market Place          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of July 13, 2023
                                        - 6 -

[page 22]

        5.  All future commercial businesses and land uses shall comply with the approved PD-1
            Cache Valley Marketplace and the Commercial Land Use Table. Business licenses prior
            to operation.
        6.  Any changes to the approved PD-1 Cache Valley Marketplace PD are required to amend
            the original PD-1 through the same approval process.
        7.  The Planned Development (PD) Overlay rezone and code amendment must be formally
            adopted by the Logan City Council or the Design Review and Subdivision Permits
            become null and void.
        8.  Building setbacks and heights are approved pending code amendment adoption.
        9.  The project shall provide a minimum of 1140 parking stalls and bike racks for each
            building as per LDC.
        10. The project shall provide a bus stop amenity along Main Street (Green and Blue Line)
            and a continuous pedestrian way with sidewalks and painted raised crossings to both
            the big box and retail buildings and the 200 East bus stops.
        11. A raised painted crossing shall be installed between the west side of the big box and the
            west side of the retail building. Additional sidewalks shall be installed so that all multi-
            family units can walk on either a sidewalk or painted crossing to the big-box and
            hotel/retail building.
        12. The signage plan is approved to allow three monument signs not to exceed 11 feet in
            height and containing 108 SF of signage size, with one located along 1400 North, Main
            Street, and 1250 North, and a fourth monument sign to be permitted along 200 East
            provided it meets the minimum sign requirement in LDC 17.33.
        13. Multiple landscaping areas shown shall be consolidated and combined to create a larger
            and more meaningful landscaped/useable outdoor space near the multi-family buildings.
        14. A performance landscaping plan, prepared in accordance with §17.39 of the LDC, shall
            be submitted for approval to the Community Development Department prior to the
            issuance of the building permit. The plan shall include the following:
            a)  Landscaping and Useable Outdoor areas shall total a minimum of 261,010 SF.
            b)  Landscaping and Outdoor Space shall be provided in a relative proportionate
                manner per lot or per phase.
            c)  510 trees and 1,275 shrubs/perennials/grasses shall be provided for this project.
            d)  18 SF of interior parking lot landscaping shall be provided per parking stall
                contained within the surface parking area as per LDC.
            e)  A landscape buffers shall be used in parking lot perimeter areas.
        15. All dumpsters shall be visually screened or buffered from public streets by using fencing,
            walls and landscaping.
        16. Rooftop mechanical and/or building wall mechanical equipment shall be placed out of
            view from the street or screen from view from the street.
        17. Exterior lighting shall be concealed source, down-cast and shall not illuminate or cast
            light onto adjacent properties.
        18. No signs are approved with this Design Review Permit. All signage shall be approved and
            permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code and consistent with the
            approved PD-1.
        19. Surface storm-water retention and detention facilities shall be located away from public
            streets and buffered from view with landscaping.
        20. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the Director of Community Development shall
            receive a written memorandum from each of the following departments or agencies
            indicating that their requirements have been satisfied:
            a. Environmental —contact 716-9761
            •   Minimum 60 ft. straight on clear access required. Approach must be level, no down or
                uphill slopes and no parking spaces or curb blocking access.
            •   Minimum inside measurement for a double enclosure is 24 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
                Minimum inside measurement for a single enclosure is 12 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
            •   Place bollards in the back of the enclosure to protect walls.

Project #23-047 Cache Valley Market Place          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of July 13, 2023
                                        - 7 -

[page 23]

            •   Gates are not required, however if desired, they must be designed to stay open
                during the collection process.
            •   Barrel hinges are suggested for the gates. We need the full 12 ft. clearance so gates
                must be designed to open completely.
            b. Engineering —contact 716-9160
            •   Complete the traffic study and install recommendations.
            •   All existing easements and rights of way lines shall be shown on the plans.
                Improvements shall not infringe upon the rights of an existing easement, right of way,
                or property owned by others.
            •   Dedicate a 10' Public Utility Easement along each side of all existing and new rights
                of way within the project and dedicate a 5' Public Utility Easement along each side of
                all side and rear property lines.
            •   All necessary cross access easements/agreements for private road and private
                utilities across all properties or outside of the project boundary shall be shown on the
                plat or provided to the City by means of a separate dedicating instrument prior to
                recording for review and approval.
            •   Comply with all engineering standards and specifications.
            c. Water —contact 716-9627
            •   All commercial buildings water mains need to have their own RP (ASSE1013)
                backflow assembly installed and tested on the water main as it enters the building
                before any branch offs or possible connections inside or outside of building. All
                backflow assemblies must be tested within 10 days of turning water into them and
                annually thereafter. Refer to 2018 IPC Utah State Amendment #
                608.1.1,608.1.2,608.1.2.1 for installation criteria. Properly sized drain required to
                serve RP backflow assemblies. Residential water services or (mains) must be totally
                separated from any commercial water mains. If residential buildings are three levels
                above finish grade or higher (water meter elevation), their water main/s must have a
                minimum DC (ASSE1015) backflow assembly on the water main/s before any branch
                offs, or possible connections. Separate any residential and commercial water
                systems (services).
            •   All privately or commonly owned landscape irrigation system's fed from Logan City
                water must have a high hazard rated backflow assembly installed and tested. No dual
                source feed systems ever allowed to be connected together at any given time. Logan
                Cities prior approval is needed for a "swing joint system". Installation criteria is
                annually tested RP assembly (city water) & swing joint. This must be inspected
                annually and passed by Logan City's backflow inspector.
            •   Fire suppression systems that are connected to Logan City water (with no added
                chemicals) must have a minimum DC (ASSE1015) backflow assembly installed and
                tested. Fire risers and all B/F assemblies must be installed and tested as per Logan
                City standards.
            •   Project shall comply with all current Utah State plumbing codes, amendments
                and Utah Admin. code R 309-105-12-(1) rules and regulations including, but not
                limited to, those pertaining to backflow prevention and cross connection
                protection, during and after construction, for the safety of the water and its
                consumption.
            d. Fire—contact 716-9515
            •   Fire apparatus access, Fire hydrants required, Required fire flow compared to
                available fire flow, Fire sprinklers, Fire Alarms, etc will be evaluated and reviewed with
                the building permit
            e. Building —contact 716-9032
            •   Submittals after July 1st will be on the 2021 I Codes

Project #23-047 Cache Valley Market Place          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of July 13, 2023
                                        - 8 -

[page 24]

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF THE SUBDIVISION & DESIGN REVIEW
PERMIT
The Planning Commission bases its decisions on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
        1.  The conditioned project will not interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties
            because of the building design, site layout, height transitions, landscaping, and setbacks.
        2.  The Design Review and Subdivision Permit conforms to the requirements of Title 17 of the
            Logan Municipal Code.
        3.  The conditioned project provides required off-street parking.
        4.  The project meets the goals and objectives of the COM designation within the Logan
            General Plan by providing services near high-capacity roadways and is designed in way for
            easy circulation of both pedestrian and vehicles.
        5.  The conditioned project complies with density and building design, open space standards
            and is in conformance with Title 17.
        6.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land Development Code
            and the Municipal Code.
        7.  Main Street, 1250 North, 1400 East, 200 East are adequate in size and design to sufficiently
            handle infrastructure related to the proposed land uses.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL OF THE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
OVERLAY REZONE AND CODE AMENDMENT
The Planning Commission bases its decisions on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
        1.  The Rezone and Code Amendments are done in conformance with the requirements of Title
            17 of the Logan Municipal Code.
        2.  Utah State Law authorizes local Planning Commissions to recommend rezones and
            Ordinance changes to the legislative body (Municipal Council.
        3.  The proposed Planned Development Overlay Zone and Code Amendments are consistent
            with the Logan City General Plan.
        4.  The proposed Planned Development Overlay and project are consistent with the pending
            legislation before the Municipal Council.
        5.  The proposed Code Amendments provide the regulatory platform for adopting and
            implementing a Planned Development project important for revitalizing a blighted and
            underutilized commercial area of Logan.
        6.  The proposed overlay and Code Amendments provide additional affordable housing.
        7.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land Development Code
            and the Municipal Code

Project #23-047 Cache Valley Market Place          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of July 13, 2023
                                        - 9 -
