[Willow Lakes Planned Development Overlay - WORKSHOP | 2024-12-03 | staff_report]
[Part 1 of 2 — PDF pages 1–16]

=== Page 1 ===

[LOGAN CITY logo — COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

Project #24-047
Willow Lakes Planned Development Overlay
Concept Plan Review
Located at approximately 1100 South 1400 West

REPORT SUMMARY…
Project Name:          Willow Lakes Planned Development Overlay Concept Plan
Proponent / Owner:     Brett Jensen / Willow Lakes Holdings LLC
Project Address:       ~1100 South 1400 West
Request:               Concept Plan Review -Potential Planned Development Overlay
Current Zoning:        Neighborhood Residential (NR-6)
Type of Action:        Workshop
Workshop Date          November 14th, 2024
Submitted By:          Russ Holley, Senior Planner

CONCEPT REVIEW
As part of the Planned Development Overlay (PDO) process, an initial concept plan review is
required. The concept plans and narratives are sent to Neighborhood Councils, Planning
Commission, and City Council for informal review and feedback. Recommendations will be
given to the applicant by both the Planning Commission and the City Council during the concept
plan review phase.

Current Land use adjoining the subject property
| North: | Outside of Logan City Boundary | East: | NR-6: Residential Uses |
| South: | NR-6: Residential Uses         | West: | NR-6: Residential Uses |

Current Zoning and FLUP Designation
The site is currently zoned NR-6 and designated on the Future Land Use Plan Map as
Detached Residential (DR). The recently completed Woodruff neighborhood plan designates
this area as single family residential.

Project Proposal
This proposal is for the 12-acre phase 5 of the Willow Lakes project. Phases 1-4 have already
been approved and platted. Construction is underway on the two artificial lakes, public
infrastructure, and single-family homes. This proposal is for a PDO, which is eventually results
in both a LDC amendment and the application of the overlay zone, in order to permit a 40,000
SF Fitness/Boat Club Commercial Building, 5 Beachfront Homes intended for short-term rental,
160 Luxury Condominiums within four, three-story buildings, and a 60-bed Assisted Living two-
story building located near the 1000 West frontage.

[map/plat page 1 — no text] Figure 1 shows the proposed phase 5 area within the yellow dashed lines.
(labels on figure: SLALOM SKI, NO WAKE PADDLE AREA, BEACH AREA, ASSISTED LIVING)

- 1 -

=== Page 2 ===

Boat Club & Fitness Commercial Building
The concept plan shows a large multi-use commercial building near the far west edge of phase
5. The three-story, 40,000 SF building with upper floor observation decks, is located along the
north shore of the Big Wake and Tube Lake. Access to the commercial building is via the new
1000 South public street. Parking areas are shown north of the building and a series of beach
amenities are shown along the lake edge. This commercial building is planned with Boat Club
area, Clubhouse/Events area, Fitness/Gym area, and office space.

[map/plat page 2 — no text] Figure 2 shows the Fitness/Boat Club on the right and the 5 beach homes on the left.
(labels on figure: CLUBHOUSE, FITNESS SPA, OBSERVATION DECK, BOAT HOUSE, FOOD PATIO, BEACH HOMES, BEACH AREA, SURF WAVE, SWI[M], ISLAND L[OUNGE], BRIDGE)

Beach Homes
East of the Fitness Center building, the proposal shows 5 beach front single family homes along
the Big Wake and Tube Lake north beach. The two-story home design shows vehicular access
from the north via the fitness center parking lot and the south yards of the homes have direct
access to the beach. These 5 homes are being proposed as short term rentals.

Luxury Condominiums
Farther east of the beach homes, the proposed concept plan shows a row of four three-story
condominium buildings along the north shore of Slalom Ski Lake. Each building would contain
40 dwelling units ranging from 1-4 bedrooms for a total of 160 units. The building design shows
structured parking on the east and west wings of the building. The three-story buildings show
larger areas of articulation and upper-floor balconies on both the north and south facades.

[map/plat page 2 — no text] Figure 3 shows the four luxury condominium buildings along Slalom Ski Lake.
(labels on figure: SLALOM SKI, NO WAKE PADDLE, ISLAND LOUNGE)

Project #24-047 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Concept Review        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Nov 14th 2024
- 2 -

=== Page 3 ===

Assisted Living
Shown at the far east side of phase 5, and along 1000 West, the concept plan proposes a two-
story 60-bed assisted living building. Access to the assisted living building is via 1100 South.
The assisted living building is shown at lower heights and is somewhat separate from the other
areas of phase 5 being located across the street and having no associated lake frontage.

[map/plat page 3 — no text] Figure 4 shows the assisted living building along 1000 West.
(label on figure: ASSISTED LIVING)

Planned Development Code Amendment
Chapter 17.27 is the PDO Land Development Code (LDC) chapter, and if approved, new
language specific to the proposed project will be adopted and codified into the LDC. The
specific language adopted as part of the PDO process would address proposed uses,
residential densities, building placement and design, setbacks, heights, amenities, etc., and tie a
project to a higher level of specificity than just a general zoning district. PDO's are intended for
unique and specific projects that would not otherwise fit into regular zoning districts and is
designed to provide flexibility and discretion to all parties involved in the normal rezone and
Design Review processes. With that, the City's expectation is that a project coming through the
PDO process should be fully vetted with the market so that future changes are minimal. If any
future changes to the project are proposed, an applicant would have to go back through the
PDO process seeking an amendment to the approved PDO language.

Density
Although the proposed phase 5 site sits seamlessly into the overall Willow Lake community, the
PDO is exclusive to the 12-acre phase 5 remainder parcels. Unless the applicant wants to
subject phase 1-4 to future changes, that area of Willow Lakes has already been approved and
platted. Phase 1-4 are not included in the PDO application and thus should not be considered in
the approval process because the City has no authority to go back and change the approvals for
phases 1-4 unless included in the PDO proposal. The PDO process is not bound to a zoning
district density and the Planning Commission and City Council can assign any density they feel
is appropriate for this area. At 12 acres, and with 165 dwelling units, the proposed density is
approximately 13.5 units per acre. The assisted living center is not calculated in the unit per
acre density count, but rather is viewed as a structure and/or use similar to group treatment
homes or hotels.

Building Heights
The proposal shows building heights as tall as 49 feet. The fitness and assisted living building
are shown at 43 feet tall and the luxury condominiums are shown at 49 feet at the top of the roof
peak and 44.5 feet at mid-gable. Typical height restrictions in the LDC are based on the mid-
gable points in the roofline. The current height limitation in the NR-6 zone is 35'.

Project #24-047 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Concept Review        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Nov 14th 2024
- 3 -

=== Page 4 ===

[map/plat page 4 — no text] Figure 5 shows the luxury condominium building design.
(architectural rendering of condominium building)

Parking Requirements
Based on the different land use categories and their associated parking requirements, the
proposed project meets or exceeds all parking stall requirements either on-site or within the off-
site 600-foot proximity requirements. They show, collectively, 32 parking stalls above base LDC
requirements with a total of 563 stalls in this project.  The Condo's include 192 stalls of
structured parking underneath the residential uses.

Pedestrian Circulation & Open Space
The proposed site layout shows standard sidewalks along public streets within phase 5 areas.
There are no crosswalk enhancements or safe delineated sidewalks through the parking lot
areas. The proposal does not show any trails or pathways that would allow people to use
alternative transportation.

The proposed project narrative explains the overall Willow Lakes open space and conservation
easement areas totaling 75 acres of easement area and 36 acres of open space in phase 1-4
(primarily the lake surfaces). The beachfront areas near the fitness center have been detailed in
this proposal, but the remaining areas of phase 5 show little open space detail or connectivity to
the bigger overall Willow Lakes open space areas.

Process
The concept review gives citizens, elected officials, and appointed officials an opportunity to
review a project and work with an applicant in providing design and element feedback for further
project refinement. City officials may suggest that the project, as presented, is acceptable and
no changes are requested, or they may provide feedback that suggests the concept is nowhere
near what would be acceptable and that significant changes are warranted. This is a workshop
for a concept plan that will inform the formal legislative and design processes. This workshop
review does not provide any zoning entitlements or vested property rights beyond the current
rights allowed under the current zoning designation of NR-6 and any other applicable City land
use regulation.

Staff recommends sufficient neighborhood and public outreach buy-in on this project because it
is contrary to the long-range planning efforts of the General Plan and the Specific Neighborhood
Plan. Both of those plans call for more single-family homes. If determined that multi-family is
better for this area, then staff recommends more trails and open space specific to the 12-acre
phase 5 be implemented to justify the uptick in density and land use intensity. Staff also
recommends enhanced setbacks, i.e., a 25-foot minimum front yard setback, for the
condominium buildings as the area to the north will likely be single family homes. A requirement
to include building setback and height transitions is consistent with the City's multi-family to
single-family building transition requirements. The larger front yards would give more area to
plant large specimen trees to help buffer the taller building heights. The Concept Plan review
process also requires that the applicant engage with the neighborhood for input and feedback
into the proposal. Staff encourages engagement from nearby residents to gauge their opinions

Project #24-047 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Concept Review        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Nov 14th 2024
- 4 -

=== Page 5 ===

on how this proposal would impact their property and neighborhood, and what mitigation
strategies, if any, could be employed to off-set any potential impact. If the review bodies feel
that this project is viable, then the next steps would be for the applicant to incorporate any
changes, recommendations, etc., into the project layout and design and submit formal
applications for Design Review, Rezone, and Code Amendments.

Project #24-047 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Concept Review        Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Nov 14th 2024
- 5 -

=== Page 6 ===

The Willow Lakes community is a residential development with a focus on outdoor activities and
watersports; including boating, paddling, surfing, swimming, walking, running, biking, and general
fitness. The property falls within the Woodruff Neighborhood and comprises a total of 180 acres, of
which, approximately 75 acres in total have been placed into nature conservation easements to
broadly preserve the most ecologically valuable waterway, riparian, forest, and meadow areas.
These easements preclude development and housing opportunities in favor of the critical lands
preservation.

Of the remaining 105 acres available for development, approximately 93 acres comprise phases 1-
4, which includes 129 single family homes and 36 acres of open space that comprise two man-
made boating lakes. This portion of the project has already been approved and is currently well
underway. The large lake is nearly complete, the small lake is approximately ½ constructed.
Phases 1 & 2 are substantially complete with homes beginning construction, and Phase 3 has been
platted and is currently mid-development. Phase 4 is anticipated to begin construction in summer
of 2025.

Phase 5, which is the subject of this PDO review, is the final portion of the project and includes the
remaining 12 acres of development area. During initial approval of the project, this portion was
included as a future phase that did not yet have a defined layout. At that time, Logan City staff, the
Planning Commission, Logan City School Board, and the Woodruff Neighborhood Council were all
informed that the intent for the Phase 5 area was to pursue a mixed-use concept that would include
multifamily units and commercial space. Additionally, this area was included in the approved
permit with the US Army Corps of Engineers. Pursuant to this plan, in August 2023, the
development group submitted an application for the Phase 5 area to be rezoned to Mixed Use,
which would allow for the inclusion of multifamily and commercial buildings. During the workshop
for this rezone, there was broad support for the concept plan being proposed, but the Planning
Commission and City Council indicated that in this case they much preferred the use of a Planned
Development Overlay zone instead of a blanket rezone.

The proposed concept layout includes 4 distinct areas; Fitness/Boat Club, Beachfront Homes,
Luxury Condominiums, and Assisted Living.

    Fitness/Boat Club
    In an effort to make the Willow Lakes amenities and lakes accessible to public patrons,
    concept approval would allow for an expansion of the typical private HOA clubhouse to
    accommodate the patronage of additional local residents and guests. As such, the concept
    includes a commercial building of approximately 40,000 square feet.

    This building includes a full-service fitness spa (weights, cardio, massage, aesthetics,
    heat/cool therapy, swimming, etc) occupying approximately 30,000 square feet of indoor
    space, combined with the Willow Lakes Boat Club (boating, surf wave, paddling, beach
    sports) occupying approximately 3.5 acres of outdoor beach and paddle area.

    This commercial building will also include a 2,500sf clubhouse/event hall, with observation
    decks overlooking the lakes that will also be made available to public patrons by reservation
    for meetings, parties, weddings, and gatherings. Additionally, the building will include

=== Page 7 ===

    approximately 5,000sf of office space that will primarily be used by the HOA, Property
    Management, and Boat Club staff. As well as approximately 2,500sf of indoor space for
    Boat Club operations, equipment lockers, changing rooms, and lounge area.

    Beachfront Homes
    Adjacent to the Fitness Spa and abutting the community beach area will be located 5
    beachfront homes. These homes will sit on small parcels with limited but well-manicured
    landscapes and private plunge pools. The parcels will be 5,000-6,000sf and the buildings
    will be 4,000-8,000sf each with a detached residential format and style fitting to a lake
    house in a mountain valley. As Phases 1-4 of the development prohibit any short-term
    rentals, these beachfront homes will be the only such homes in the project to allow for
    short-term rental. This is intended to provide accommodation for owner guests as well as
    guests of event attendees, in addition to providing additional capacity and novelty to the
    professionally-managed hospitality sector in Logan.

    Luxury Condominiums
    This ~5.5 acre area is located along 1100 South and abuts the north bank of the slalom lake.
    This area is intended to include 160 individually platted waterfront condominiums within 4
    building structures. The character of the buildings is intended to include main floor podium
    style enclosed parking to limit the amount of outdoor parking required. The buildings are
    intended to have a courtyard style in which many small courtyards and outdoor lounge
    areas are included in the design to add to the character of the community. Including the
    ground floor parking, the buildings are intended to have a staggered 3-story elevation with
    portions of flat roof to limit the overall height of the tallest sections. The buildings will
    include a mix of 1, 2, 3, and 4 bedroom condos, and may include a limited number of
    ground floor live-work units if current market analysis indicates market demand for such at
    the time of commencement. The multi-family units are intended to provide a more
    economical access point to the community for those who's life circumstance does not yet
    justify or allow for a detached lakefront home on a larger parcel. They are also intended to
    provide condominiums of a more upscale nature for those who desire the fit and finish of a
    detached custom home but are not in the market for such.

    Assisted Living
    This ~1.75 acre area abuts the 1000W highway making the parcel particularly difficult for
    single family residential development. However, such locations are much more desirable
    for Assisted Living Centers. Additionally, there are no such facilities anywhere on the
    southwest side of Cache County. This building is intended to include 60 beds. The
    orientation of the building will be westward facing to provide tenants unobstructed views of
    the lakes for entertainment, and shielding for the outdoor spaces from the road noise
    associated with the highway. Amenities associated with the fitness center and boat club will
    also be made available to tenants and their guests to provide a uniquely desirable living
    condition.

=== Page 8 ===

    While market analysis currently indicates feasibility for an assisted living center, as a
    contingency, the parcel would be designed to accommodate office, neighborhood retail,
    and/or possibly a drive-through eatery if it was determined in the future that the assisted
    living center would not be economically viable upon commencement.

Much of what is being proposed here is already allowable within the current zone, that being the
HOA clubhouse, gym, boat club, beach, swimming pools, beachfront homes, and assisted living
center. This PDO approval would allow for these amenities to be somewhat expanded and offered
commercially to public patrons whereas otherwise the amenities must remain private and
exclusive to Willow Lakes owners.

Density & Land Use
It is important to note that the project area of approximately 180 acres has a current NR-6 zone,
allowing for 6 homes per acre. An objective analysis of the area after meeting NEPA and FEMA
requirements for wetlands and floodway indicates that approximately 130 acres was suitable for
development within the current zone. At maximum density this would provide for development of
up to 780 housing units within project boundaries. The PDO concept area, when combined with
Phases 1-4 homes, would result in an overall density of just 2.7 units per acre if we include the
assisted living beds, and 2.3 units per acre if the assisted living beds are excluded. Additionally, in
contrast to neighboring higher density communities, the Willow Lakes development includes 108
acres of common open space, which is 60% of the total project area.

Parking Analysis
The LDC prescribes the following parking requirements;
    • 1.0 parking stalls per 500sf of fitness center,
        o 65 stalls required (including boat club space)
        o 77 stalls provided (not including those 14 stalls allotted to adjacent multifamily)
    • 1.0 stalls per 3 persons of max capacity of minor entertainment event,
        o 83 stalls required
        o 83 stalls provided
    • 1.0 stalls per 300sf of general office space,
        o 17 stalls required
        o 17 stalls provided
    • 1.0 stalls per 2 bedrooms (2 occupants per bedrooms plus 2 additional occupants),
        o 16 stalls required
        o 20 stalls provided (10 indoor & 10 outdoor in private drives)
    • 2.0 stalls per unit of multifamily housing,
        o 320 stalls required
        o 306 stalls provided within or abutting buildings
        o 14 stalls provided across Willow Lakes Drive for West buildings
    • 1.0 per 4 beds and 1.0 per employee at largest shift for assisted living
        o 30 stalls required
        o 46 stalls provided

=== Page 9 ===

Setbacks
Within the proposed concept design, proposed setbacks are as follows;
    • Fitness Center – front 75', side 27', rear 30'
    • Assisted Living – front 55', side 23', rear 30', corner 30'
    • Multifamily – front 10', side 75', rear 20', corner 75'

A note on the multifamily setbacks. The front façade of the buildings includes substantial
articulation and the entrance of the building in the concept design is located within a courtyard with
the front entrance approximately 33' from the front property line. Additionally, the Willow Lakes
project added 15-20' of width to the south side of the 1100 South ROW (it is now approximately an
80ft ROW) creating more open greenspace between these buildings and any future building on the
parcels to the North due to a PUE/park strip that is now almost 15-20' wider.

Building Heights
The proposed design seeks to ensure that building elevations do not appear overpronounced
relative to the heights of nearby homes by utilizing transition zones, flat roof sections, and larger
roof planes sloping away from future detached residential. As currently designed in the concept
shown, the tallest point of the Fitness Club is approximately 43' above grade with the design
starting at 1-story and then stepping back to a 2-story section, and then again to a 3-story section
as the distance from nearby detached residential structures increases. The ground floor of this
building meets the LDC commercial and mixed-use building requirement of at least 12' ceiling
heights on the ground floor.

The LDC allows for primary building heights in MR-30 zones to reach a maximum of 55' and MU
zones allowing primary building heights of 58-70'. This PDO concept design seeks to create less
imposing structures with lower heights. The maximum height of the multifamily buildings is
approximately 49' at peak gable and 44.5' at mid gable.

The design and character of the beach houses is in line with typical single family detached homes
and final designs are intended to remain within the 35' height restrictions of such. The design
concept of the assisted living center includes a maximum height of 43' as proposed. As this
particular parcel abuts the highway and is more suited to commercial development, as seen
immediately to the south of the project, commercial height restrictions of 55' for this parcel would
be appropriate.

=== Page 10 ===

[map/plat page 10 — no text] Title slide.
Text on slide: "[LOGAN CITY logo] Willow Lakes Phase 5 / Planned Development Overlay / Workshop"

=== Page 11 ===

[map/plat page 11 — no text] Location/vicinity map.
Legible label: "Willow Lakes ~1100 South 1400 West" (red star). Street labels include 1000 N, 100 N, 100 S, 400 N, 600 N, 1800 S, 2200 S, 2575 S, 1000 W, 200 W, 100 W, 300 W, 600 E, US 89, North Logan, Providence, Providence Canyon Rd.

=== Page 12 ===

[map/plat page 12 — no text] 2024 Zoning Map.
Legible labels: NR-6, NR-4, REC, IP, MR-12, OUTSIDE OF LOGAN CITY BOUNDARY (red star at subject site). Caption: "2024 Zoning Map"

=== Page 13 ===

[map/plat page 13 — no text] Future Land Use Map (FLUP).
Legible labels (rotated map): DR, DR-DX, MR, REC, IP; street labels 1330 W, 1150 W, 1400 W, 1360 W, 1250 W, 900 S, 800 S, 600 S, 1500 W, 1580 W, KC LN, TRAIL CIR, 900 W, 1000 S, 1100 S, 890 S, 830 S, 720 S, 670 W, 500 W, PARK AVE, SOUTHWEST, 1600 S, HYRUM (red star at subject site). Title: "Future Land Use Map (FLUP)"

=== Page 14 ===

RECOMMENDATIONS
[map image — FLUP Update; legible callouts: "FLUP Update", "Detached Residential", "Commercial Multi-family Nodes"; Map F.8 - Proposed FLUP Update; page 119]

FLUP Update Summary
    • Boundary line with Nibley is likely to change.
Detached Residential
    • 490 acres.
    • Approx. 1,200 - 1,500 new units.
    • Density approx. 2.5 - 3 units per acre.
Mixed Residential
    • 75 acres.
    • Approx. 500 - 750 new units.
    • Approx. 7 – 10 units per acre.
    • Located near commercial nodes (1,400' radius from intersections).
    • Not located on properties that front Highway.
Commercial
    • 60 acres.
    • South Corridor Plan and Gateway Overlay 700' radius around intersections.
Rural Reserve Area
    • 72 acres.
    • Area between nodes.

Woodruff Neighborhood Plan (2021)

=== Page 15 ===

[map/plat page 15 — no text] Aerial photograph of project vicinity.
Legible labels: "Project Street Connection to 900 S.", "1400 West", "1100 South", "1000 West", "Project Street Connection to 1000 W.", "Willow Lakes" (red star), "Trapper Park", "Logan River"

=== Page 16 ===

[map/plat page 16 — no text] Phasing plat/site plan.
Legible labels: PHASING NARRATIVE (body text illegible at this resolution), LEGEND (PHASE 1 / PHASE 2 / PHASE 3 / PHASE 4 / PHASE 5), PHASE 1, PHASE 2, PHASE 3, PHASE 4, 1400 WEST, 1100 SOUTH, SLALOM CIRCLE, WILLOW LAKES [DRIVE], FLOOD PLAIN BOUNDARY, [lot numbers/areas illegible]
[map/plat page 17 — no text]
Colored master plan graphic with labels: Phase 1, Phase 2, Phase 3, Phase 4, Phase 5. Street labels: 1400 West, 1000 West, 1100 South. Water/area labels: LITTLE LOGAN RIVER RESTORATION, LOGAN RIVER, BIG WAKE & TUBE, SLALOM SKI, NO WAKE PADDLE AREA, BEACH AREA, RIVER / FOREST PRESERVE, RIVER / NATURE PRESERVE, TRAPPER PARK.
Caption: Willow Lakes Master Plan (Phase 5 not approved)

[map/plat page 18 — no text]
Site plan detail with red dashed boundary. Labels: Phase 5 area (~12 acres), numbered areas 1, 2, 3, 4. Other labels: SLALOM SKI, NO WAKE PADDLE AREA, BEACH AREA, ISLAND LOUNGE, ASSISTED LIVING, SWIM / PADDLE AREA, SURF WAVE.
Caption: Phase 5 – PDO Overlay Area

[map/plat page 19 — no text]
Site plan detail. Labels: ~ 2-foot setback, ~ 215 parking stalls, CLUBHOUSE, FITNESS SPA, OBSERVATION DECK, BOAT HOUSE, BOAT RAMP, FOOD PATIO, SURF WAVE, BEACH AREA, BEACH HOMES, SWIM (partial).
Caption: 1 – 40,000 SF Boat House, Clubhouse, Fitness Spa, Beach Amenities

[map/plat page 20 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing building rendering.
Caption: 1 – 40,000 SF Boat House, Clubhouse, Fitness Spa (three story, color, materials?)

[map/plat page 21 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing building elevation.
Caption: 1 – 40,000 SF Boat House, Clubhouse, Fitness Spa (North Façade)

[map/plat page 22 — no text]
Site plan detail. Labels: FOOD PATIO, BEACH HOMES, BEACH AREA, BRIDGE.
Caption: 2 – Beachfront short term rental homes - four similar footprints, one different

[map/plat page 23 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing house rendering.
Caption: 2 – Beachfront short term rental homes – north facade

[map/plat page 24 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing house rendering.
Caption: 2 – Beachfront short term rental homes – north facade

[map/plat page 25 — no text]
Site plan detail. Labels: ~ 10-foot setback, SLALOM SKI, NO WAKE PADDLE AREA, ISLAND LOUNGE, RAMP.
Caption: 3 – Condos. Four 3-story buildings w/ 160 unit's total

[map/plat page 26 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing building rendering.
Caption: 3 - Condo's– north side  (no colors, materials or heights listed)

[map/plat page 27 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing building rendering.
Caption: 3 - Condo's– north side  (three stories)

[map/plat page 28 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing building elevation (image printed upside-down).
Caption (rotated 180°): 3 - Condo's– north side

[map/plat page 29 — no text]
Colored site plan detail. Labels: ASSISTED LIVING, 1000 West.
Caption: 4 – Assisted Living – 60 beds

[map/plat page 30 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing building rendering.
Caption: 4 – Assisted Living – West side  (no elevations for 1000 West side)

[map/plat page 31 — no text]
Black-and-white line-drawing building elevation.
Caption: 4 – Assisted Living – West side  (no colors, materials or heights listed)

LOGAN
CITY UNITED IN SERVICE

- Discussion Points

- Scope. 12 acres only? Any offsite improvements needed? 1400 West extension? Phase 1-4 already approved/platted as single-family lots. More colors/materials details needed?

- Are multi-family structures appropriate? FLUP/Woodruff Plan shows only single-family. Should Multi-Family be placed on the edge of the overall project site or central to mitigate impacts? (traffic, noise, visual height of buildings, mass)

- 40,000 SF commercial use. How are impacts mitigated. (Comparisons Sports Academy, main bldg. is ~65k SF) (Planet Fitness ~25k SF) Parking lot design and setback (adjacent/across the street will likely be single family homes not associated with willow lakes (Parker Property))

-STR's. Purpose built, no surprises for the neighbors. Appropriate location and size?

-Open Space/Trails/Landscaping for subject 12 acres. Better walkability from condo/assisted living to commercial areas. Phase 5 trails connecting to larger trail networks?

- Setbacks. 25-foot setback typ. for high density next to low density. Balance the street, allow for more trees/landscaping. Parking lot setbacks are typ. 10' in com areas

- Future Market Changes mentioned in write up/Drive Thru Rest./Assisted living. Other points?
