2024 Update – DRAFT 5.13.24
Logan City Community Development
Hillcrest Neighborhood Council
Section 1 - Introduction
The Hillcrest Neighborhood Plan was adopted in 2016. Since then,
many goals of the plan have been moved forward, while some have
not. Also, many community paradigms and aspects of the
neighborhood have changed over the last seven years. This update is
intended to evaluate the progress made in implementing the plan and
consider new goals and objectives based on the changes in the current
conditions in Hillcrest and Logan.

In 2016, Hillcrest was a neighborhood that was primarily built out but
did have a few land use question marks remaining. In the subsequent
years, most of those undeveloped areas have been developed. The
underlaying land uses associated with those developments were in
response to the neighborhood plan. Primarily, outside of USU-owned
properties, the development has been residential, with over 100 new Figure 1 - New single-family development in Hillcrest.
single-family lots in three new single-family subdivisions, and two new
multi-family developments that added 60 townhomes, and 100
apartments.

Hillcrest has been substantially impacted by rising home prices in the
region. According to the American Community Survey (ACS), in 2016,
the median household income in the neighborhood was $76,000 and
the median single-family home was $220,000. The most recently
published 2021 survey data shows that incomes in the area have risen
20% to $95,500, while home values have risen over 30% to $317,000.
This data does not fully reflect the increase in home prices that we
have experienced over the last couple of years, as current listings in
the neighborhood for a typical home are around $500,000.

There have also been several zoning and land use changes that have
impacted the neighborhood that were not considered during the
development of the neighborhood plan. Perhaps the most significant          Figure 2 - Foothill Lofts is a townhome and apartment development on 1200 E.
changes were permitting of accessory dwelling units (ADUs) for a
portion of the neighborhood and permitting short-term rentals.
Regarding infrastructure, there have been improvements to trails, sidewalk connectivity, and there are a few larger road construction projects
queued for the next couple of years, including the ‘oval-a-bout’ at 1000 N and 1200 E. Development has also helped to fill the gaps, but there
remain opportunities for pedestrian improvement along the trail corridors, the collector roads in the neighborhood, and the intersections
adjacent to the new Hillcrest Elementary School.

One of the biggest changes to the neighborhood is the construction
and reorganization of Hillcrest Elementary. This school used to
function as both a neighborhood school and a dual language
Immersion (DLI) school. Following reforms to the DLI program,
Hillcrest is now a DLI-only school and not a neighborhood school.
Though there remains a significant number of students in the
neighborhood who participate in the DLI program, those who do not
participate in DLI now attend Adams Elementary School. Also, the old
Hillcrest Elementary is slated to be demolished to create green space.

Organizationally, the Hillcrest Neighborhood Council remains active
and participates in the planning process for the neighborhood and as a
forum for city and neighborhood communication.                         Figure 3 - New Hillcrest Elementary
Section 2 - Hillcrest Plan Recommendations Review
In this section, each of the recommendations from the neighborhood plan is evaluated for level of implementation. Notes are also included to
describe the steps that have been taken or the lack of progress of the recommendation.


Land Use Recommendations
1. While at the present time, no expansion of commercial and
mixed-use development is proposed, there was a noted desire to
eventually include small neighborhood-scale development along the
1200 E corridor. This land use should be revisited in the future.
    • Implementation: No
    • Notes: The original draft plan included specific
        recommendations for mix-use zoning along 1200 E, but this
        recommendation was removed and replaced with this
        watered-down version. No mixed-use or community
        commercial zone changes are currently proposed in the area.
        Areas along 1200 E near campus remain viable options for
        mix-use expansion, especially, as many of these areas have
                                                                    Figure 4 - 900 N/Evergreen and 1200 E is a potential location for mix-use adjacent to
        converted to rentals.                                       campus.


2. On the Future Land Use Plan Map, the area designated as Campus Residential should be removed.
    • Implementation: Yes
    • Notes: Following the adoption of the plan, several areas of the neighborhood were downzoned. There are no areas in Hillcrest currently
        designated as Campus Residential on the FLUP.
3. On the Zoning Map, the areas east of 1600 E that have larger lot
sizes should be rezoned to NR-4.
    • Implementation: Yes
    • Notes: Following the adoption of the plan, several areas of
        the neighborhood were downzoned, including the larger lot
        areas east of 1600 E and a significant portion of the area
        along 1400/1500 N and 1400 E.


4. Deer Pen Land Use Recommendations
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: The residential portion of the Deer Pen land use plan
        has been sold and is currently under development. The park
        plan is complete and awaiting funding for development.
        Areas for consideration to further the implementation of this
        recommendation are to address the trail crossing on 1500 N,
        begin work on an internal trail network through the park, and
        provide canal corridor improvement.
                                                                        Figure 5 - Areas of Hillcrest that have been rezoned to NR-4




 Figure 6 - Residential development in Deer Pen.                             Figure 7 - Potential improvements along canal corridor.
Housing Recommendations
1. Continue to use the One Home Programs to incentivize the purchasing of rentals and conversion back to owner occupancy.
    • Implementation: No
    • Notes: Logan City has discontinued the previous housing rehab assistance grants. Some funding remains available through
        Neighborhood Nonprofit Housing. There are significant issues qualifying for grant opportunities in the neighborhood considering the
        current home values.

2. Code enforcement should be proactive in the neighborhood and penalties should have consequences sufficient to prevent infractions from
occurring.
    • Implementation: Yes
    • Notes: Code Enforcement has added additional staff to increase proactive enforcement. In 2022, 44 code enforcement cases were
        opened, and 86 courtesy notices were issued in Hillcrest for nuisance issues such as weeds or sidewalk snow clearance.




Figure 8 - Neighborhood Enforcement Map from the 2022 year-end report.
Public Infrastructure and Facilities Recommendations
1. 1350 North and 1700 North should not be extended to the new residential development in Deer Pen.
    • Implementation: Yes
    • Notes: There has been no expansion of roadways through the Deer Pen area other than the new Sharptail Cir cul-de-sac. Trail
        improvements have been implemented in the area that connects to the Bonneville Shoreline Trail.

2. The 1200 E corridor should be improved to serve as a more
accessible north/south option for the neighborhood, improving the
1000 North Intersection, implementing the existing transportation
plans, and addressing pedestrian crossing and safety on 1200 E
between 1000 N and 700 N.
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: Design for an ‘oval-a-bout’ at 1000 N and 1200 E is
        underway and construction is planned to begin in 2024.
        Pedestrian improvements have been made at the 1400 N
        intersection, and sidewalk improvements will be made with
        the new development. A traffic signal is also warranted for the Figure 9 - Construction of the 'oval-a-bout' at 1000 N 1200 E Intersection with help to
        US 89/91 intersection.                                          improve traffic flow and pedestrian crossing on 1200 E.




3. Implementing traffic calming measures along 1600 E/1500 E in
order to maintain a neighborhood quality roadway.
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: Sidewalk and crossing improvements have been made
        along the safe route to school along 1000 N between 1500 E
        and 1600 E. Sidewalk and crossing improvements have been
        made at the 1500 E Hwy 89 intersection. Improvements are
        needed south of Hillcrest Elementary and at the 1500 N
        intersection. Additional marked crossings should also be
        considered near Lundstrom Park.
                                                                                 Figure 10 - Safe route to school crossing and new sidewalk at the 100 N 1600 E
                                                                                 intersection.
4. Implementing a “complete street” design along the 1000 N
/Ellendale corridor in order to calm traffic.

   •   Implementation: Partial
   •   Notes: Improvements have been made at the 1000 N 1500 E
       intersection. Additional improvements should be considered
       when the old Hillcrest school is demolished and redeveloped.
       Bike lanes have been added to the portion of the street from
       1500 E to 1200 E. Additional Improvements are planned as
       part of the 1000 N 1200 E ‘oval-a-bout’.


5. Incorporate the recommendations of the bike/pedestrian plan
into the Hillcrest Neighborhood Plan.                                  Figure 11 - Bike lanes and crossing along 1000 N.
     • Implementation: Partial
     • Notes: Bike lanes have been marked on 1000 N and 1400 N
        (not yet marked past 1200 E). Sharrows have been marked
        on 1500 E/1600 E. A shared-use pathway has been
        constructed along 700 N. A buffered bike lane along 1200 E
        has not been constructed.


6. Develop a Sidewalk and ADA corner priority list with sources of
potential funding.
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: Logan City Access and Mobility Plan identifies priority
        improvements. Corner improvements have been constructed
        near Lundstrom Park, Hillcrest Elementary, 1400 N 1200 E,
        and 1500 E Hwy 89/91. This list should be evaluated and
        updated.




                                                                       Figure 12 - ADA improvements around Lundstrom Park
7. Assess street trees and encourage the development of a Logan
City Tree Plan in order to preserve and enhance the tree canopy in
the neighborhood.
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: Following tree damage from recent storms, tree
        preservation, and succession planning are a critical
        component for protecting tree canopy in the neighborhood.
        Parks were hit particularly hard by recent storms. Rex Davis,
        City Forrester, is the lead on forestry planning in the City.


8. Lighting along streets should be pedestrian in scale and managed
to reduce light pollution.
     • Implementation: No                                               Figure 13 - Tree removal at Lundstrom Park

     • Notes: Some improvements to lighting have been made near
         the USU campus and there have been spot improvements.
         There has been no concerted effort to reduce light pollution
         in the neighborhood.


9. Enhance connections between the Aspen Drive/Deer Pen area to
Bonneville Shoreline Trail (BST).
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: Improved connection constructed south of Crestwood
       Lane and along Northpointe Court. There remain additional
       areas where trail corridors could be developed.




                                                                        Figure 14 - Trail corridor connecting the north end of the Deer Pen trail to the Shoreline
                                                                        Trail.
10. Attempt to connect the canal corridor and the Shoreline Trail.
    • Implementation: No
    • Notes: While efforts have been made to reach an
       agreement, the trail remains inaccessible through the
       country club.


11. Improve wayfinding and signage associated with the trail
system.
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: Wayfinding has been improved in the Deer Pen,
        Shoreline Trail, and around First Dam.

                                                                     Figure 15 - Trail sign
12. Improve the bike/pedestrian connection to First Dam.
    • Implementation: Yes
    • Notes: Trail improvements have been constructed along
       Hwy 89/91.



13. Incorporate the Deer Pen property into Logan City’s formal
Parks system.
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: Park design complete, awaiting funding.




                                                                     Figure 16 - Trail improvements connecting Hillcrest to First Dam
Community Recommendations
1. Support the Neighborhood Council as an avenue for residents to voice neighborhood-related concerns.
    • Implementation: Yes
    • Notes: City-wide, Neighborhood Councils have been reorganized and are currently operating in Hillcrest.



2. Support neighborhood events that encourage volunteerism, such as neighborhood cleanups.
    • Implementation: Partial
    • Notes: The Hillcrest Neighborhood Council has held public meetings and organized community socials. There remains the opportunity to
       help coordinate additional events, such as neighborhood cleanups.



3. Create public spaces that bring the community together.
    • Implementation: No
    • Notes: There has not been any substantial development to park or public facilities or programming other than trails.



4. Create public spaces that bring the community together.
    • Implementation: No
    • Notes: Some effort was made with improved signage, but no Hillcrest neighborhood branding. There is potential to include art at
        gateways and parks and develop a logo to mount on street signs.
Section 3 - 2023 Public Participation
October 19 Workshop
A neighborhood workshop was held on October 19, 2023, at Hillcrest Elementary to discuss the progress made on implementing the Hillcrest
Plan and discuss areas of ongoing concern and potential projects to further the plan as part of the 2023 update. City staff conducted a
presentation and facilitated a discussion regarding infrastructure, parks, trails, housing, and zoning. A questionnaire and comment boards were
also provided for attendees to share their thoughts about ways to improve the neighborhood.

Summary of Comments

Presentation Discussion
Infrastructure
1000 N and 1500 E Pedestrian and Bike Conflict
    • There were concerns expressed about the pedestrian and bike conflicts along the sidewalk along 1000 N between 1500 E and 1600 E, as
        well as along 1500 E next to Hillcrest Elementary. The issues are most apparent while kids are traveling to school. This pedestrian
        corridor was highlighted as being one of the more heavily traversed paths. There were concerns about the path width in areas.
    • Comments to improve the corridor included widening the sidewalk along both 1000 N and 1500 E and developing bike lanes along both
        roads to reduce conflicts with pedestrians.

1500 E 900 N Crossing
   • There was concern about the lack of a marked crossing and curb cuts at the 900 N 1500 E intersection, both to cross 900 N and 1500 E.
        There was consensus that this was an important piece of missing infrastructure that is needed to address safe routes to school and for
        general connectivity in the neighborhood.
   • This improvement tied into a broader discussion regarding complete street improvements to the 1500 E/1600 E corridor.

1600 E 1500 N Crossing
   • This intersection connects the east and west portions of Hillcrest and is the primary pathway to several neighborhood assets, such as the
        LDS church house, bus stops, and parks and trails. The group commented that it was very wide and poorly marked.
   • Suggested improvements included a ‘bulb-out’ design and improved marking at the intersection.

1500 N, Heavy trucks/machinery, speeding, and pedestrian safety
   • With the construction of new housing in Deer Pen and around Aspen Drive there is an increase in traffic in the area.
   • There was discussion about improvements to slow down traffic coming off the hill and providing a safe crossing for pedestrians.
   • Russ Akina, Parks Director, provided an update on the plans for an improved crossing along in the area that would include alignment of
        the trail and a flashing beacon.
Street Calming
    • Priority areas identified for street calming were the 1500 E/1600 E Corridor and the 1400 N/1500 N corridor from 1200 E up to Aspen Dr.

Traffic Improvements
    • The signalization of 1200 E and HWY 89 and the ‘oval-about’ at 1000 N and 1200 E were discussed with consensus supporting those
         improvements.
    • Sam Odd from Public Works clarified that a round-a-bout was also proposed for 800 N and 1200 E at the USU parking access along the
         south side of the Logan Cemetery.
    • Another area identified for traffic improvements was the 1400 N 1200 E intersection. A roundabout was suggested as a preferred design
         solution as the issue is most prominent when USU gets out.

Parks and Trails
Trails in Lundstrom
    • A walking path that looped through the park was suggested.
    • A pathway that connected Lundstrom Park to the canal trail was also suggested and could be incorporated into the forementioned
          Lundstrom walking path.

South Canal and Shoreline Trail Connection
   • There was an agreement to continue efforts to try to connect the southern end of the canal trail to the shoreline trail. This potential
       connection crosses through the Country Club and will require cooperation from private parties.

North Canal and Shoreline Trail Connection
   • There was consensus that the design of the northern connection trail between the canal and shoreline trails was inadequate as it is
       currently too steep to be user-friendly and the design causes erosion along the trail.
   • The suggested remedy was to meander the path to reduce the steepness of the trail. This will require the use of culverts to cross the
       drainage.
   • Changes to this trail will help to reduce trespassing issues along private property.

Tree Planting in Parks
    • There were concerns expressed about tree damage and removal in Lundstrom Park and the desire to have new trees planted.
    • There was a general discussion about the mature tree canopy in Lundstrom and the desire for planning for tree succession.

Green Space at Hillcrest
   •   There was a favorable response from the group that the old Hillcrest Elementary was going to be demolished and replaced with green
       space.

Zoning, Development, and Housing
ADUs
   • ADUs were discussed with varying views on the topic.
   • Those in favor saw it as an opportunity to attract homeowners to the neighborhood.
   • There were several attendees opposed to any expansion of ADUs in the neighborhood.
   • A quick poll of the attendees showed equal hands in support and opposition to expanding ADUs.

Short Term Rentals
   • Another topic with varying opinions. There was no consensus from the group regarding the positive or negative impacts of STRs.
   • There was some agreement that an STR is generally more well-maintained than a student rental.

Occupancy
   • There was consensus that over-occupancy, increase in rental housing, and poor property maintenance remains a significant threat to the
      neighborhood, particularly in the area closer to USU.
   • There was significant concern about the proposal to increase occupancy from 3 individuals to 4 individuals.
Workshop Poster Comments – The following map calls out comments placed on the Infrastructure and Parks and Trails posters at the workshop.
Workshop Questionnaire

A questionnaire was distributed at the workshop and sent to neighborhood members through the Hillcrest email list. The questionnaire
considered various topics, including housing, infrastructure, parks, and trails, and featured 25 questions. 28 responses were received. The
questionnaire is not a scientific survey and should be considered and weighted similarly to comments from the workshop meeting. Some open-
ended questions were recategorized by staff to group similar responses.


General Neighborhood Questions

Several general questions were asked to help orient respondents to the neighborhood and gauge basic demographic information. Respondent
longevity in the neighborhood varied, with the highest percentage of respondents (36%) either long term residents (16+ years in the
neighborhood) and newer residents (1 – 5 years in the neighborhood) were the second highest group of respondents (32%). All but one
responded owned their home. All respondents indicated that they see themselves living in Hillcrest in 5 years. Opinions were, however, split in
regard to whether the neighborhood has improved, stayed the same, or gotten worse.


       1. How long have you lived
              in Hillcrest?

   16+ Years                                  36%


 11-15 Years                  14%


  6-10 Years                    18%


   1-5 Years                                32%

               0%    10%      20%     30%     40%

                1-5 Years     6-10 Years
                11-15 Years   16+ Years
A follow-up question to understand what contributed to the sense of change in the neighborhood was asked. Below is a list of grouped
responses given based on the perceived changed.

5. Considering your answer to the last question, what factors contribute to your answer?
Feel that the Neighborhood has Improved
                                            Number of
 Grouped Responses                          Responses                           Chart 6. What do you like most about living in
 Infrastructure/trail improvements                  3                                      Hillcrest? Categorized
 New school                                         3
 Increase in young families                         2
                                                                       Access to USU/easy to travel around town                                         19
 Liberal residents                                  1
 Neighborhood cooperation                           1                             Friendly neighbors/community                            5

Feel that the Neighborhood has Stayed the Same                                            Green space and parks                           5
                                            Number of                                             Quiet/peaceful                          5
 Grouped Responses                          Responses
 Too many rentals and over-occupancy                1                       Access to sidewalks/trails/walkability                        5
 Increase in traffic                                1
 Barking dogs                                       1                              Access to Canyons/mountains                            5
 Poor property maintenance                          1
                                                                                       Mature/tree lined streets                  3
 Undesired housing development                      1
 Lack of infrastructure improvements                1                                        Hillcrest Elementary             2

Feel that the Neighborhood has Gotten Worse                                       Quality of homes and property…              2
                                            Number of
                                                                                                  Lots of families        1
 Grouped Responses                          Responses
 Too many rentals and over-occupancy                6                                               Quality of life       1
 Poor rental property maintenance                   2
 Undesired housing development                      2                                Beauty of the neighborhood           1
 Decrease in neighborhood activities                1
                                                                                                                      0               5       10   15   20



Question 6 shows the respondent's replies when asked what they like most about living in Hillcrest. Many of the responses focuses on the
location of Hillcrest and the great access to community resources.
Question 7 considered what residents would like to change. The
highest-grouped responses were to increase owner-occupancy,                                  7. What would you like to see change in the
improve the sidewalks and bike infrastructure, and increase the food                                     Neighborhood?
and shopping options.
                                                                                     Increase owner occupancy/single family
                                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                                     homes
                                                                                             Improve sidewalks/pedestrian
Zoning Questions                                                                                                                                                        6
                                                                                           infrastructure/bike infrastructure
                                                                                         More neighborhood food/shopping
A series of questions regarding zoning and development were asked.                                   options
                                                                                                                                                                        6
Question 8 considered changes to the zoning map. The top grouped
                                                                                       Improve property maintenance/code
response was a desire to expand commercial and mixed-use options                                  enforcement
                                                                                                                                                        3
and expand ADUs.
                                                                                                        Improve trail access                            3


                                                                                               Improve street infrastructure                    2
          8. After looking at the zoning map, what
                                                                                                               Expand ADUs              1
           changes would you make to zoning in
                          Hillcrest?                                                                        Increase density            1

      Expand neighborhood
                                                                             6                       Park tree maintenance              1
   commercial/mixed use zoning
                    Expand ADUs                                  4
                                                                                                Development of nature park              1
                      No changes                         3
                                                                                       Allow more occupants in rentals near
                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                    campus
 Increase density in limited areas           1
                                                                                       City ownership/maintenance of Deer
  Increase occupancy limits near                                                                                                        1
                                             1                                                     Crest roads
             campus
       No commercial expansion               1                                                     More community events                1

                                     0   1       2   3       4       5   6       7                                              0   1       2       3       4   5   6       7
The majority of respondents were also interested in seeing neighborhood-scale commercial and mixed-use expansion.




When asked a follow-up of where they would like to see additional neighborhood-scale commercial and mixed-use, the majority of responses
found it acceptable near campus, neighborhood gateways, or highways.


        10. If neighborhood scale commercial/mixed-use
         were to be developed in Hillcrest, where would
                    you prefer it to be located?
 25
 20
 15
 10
  5
  0
        Near Campus     Near neighborhood    Near high density   Other: Near
                       gateways or highway                        Fredrico's
Housing Questions

Respondents were asked what they would like to protect and what they would like to change about housing in Hillcrest. The most common
response regarding what they would like to protect was to increase owner-occupancy and single-family homes. When asked what they would
like to change, increasing owner-occupancy was again a common response, along with allowing more ADUs.


        11.What about housing in Hillcrest would                                      12. What about housing in Hillcrest would
        you like to protect over the next 5 years?                                      you like to see change over the next 5
                                                                                                         years?
  Increase owner occupancy/single
                                                                    10
            family homes
                                                                                   Increase owner occupancy/single…                                4
    Improve property maintenance                   3                                              Allow more ADUs                                  4

           Decrease the amount of                                                                   Increase density                   2
                                               2
                development
                                                                                         Increase affordible housing                   2
    Decrease number of short term
                                               2                                            Enforce over-occupancy             1
               rentals
                                                                                   Improve street trees/urban forest           1
   Increase density in limited areas           2
                                                                                            Decrease light pollution           1
           Decrease the amount of
                                               2                               Decease the amount of turf grass and…           1
                development

                                                                              Improve pedestrian/bike infrastructure           1
               Protect green space         1
                                                                                           Slow down development               1
 Protect historic design precedent -
                                           1                                      Improve architectural standard for…
       single story dwellings                                                                                                  1

                                       0   2       4   6   8   10        12                                            0   1       2       3   4       5
A topic of consideration in Hillcrest is the location and impacts of ADUs. Residents were asked about their support for expanding ADUs into areas
of Hillcrest near campus where they are currently not permitted. 66% of responses were supportive of the idea. Only about 19% were opposed.




The impact of short-term rentals was also gauged. While most residents indicated that they had a neutral impact, there were considerably more
residents that felt they had a negative impact as opposed to a positive impact.
Infrastructure Questions

A series of questions were asked about vehicles, pedestrians, and bike infrastructure. Respondents were asked to rate their perceived safety
while utilizing the various modes of transportation in the neighborhood. Overall, most modes were rated high, but nearly 25% of respondents
did not agree that bike infrastructure was safe and convenient.
Site-specific recommendations were also collected. Responses were grouped by topic.

Vehicle Recommendations

General Suggestions
   • Add stop/yield signs where a stop or yield is required.
   • Encourage runners to use the sidewalks instead of the road.
   • Cars need to maintain the speed limit.
   • More restrictive and enforceable street parking.
   • Slow traffic down.
   • Resurface 1000 N.

1200 E
   • Improve access along 1200 E.
   • Install a roundabout at 1200 E and 1400 N, make 700 N through campus pedestrian only, and improve traffic flow from Edith Bowen.
   • Improve intersections on 1200 E at 800 N, 1000 N, and 1200 N.
   • I think a roundabout at 1200 E and 1400 N might be good (very little foot traffic there). I also wonder about a curving road at 1200 E and
       1000 N with a light instead of an oval (lots of foot traffic at that intersection). Property to accomplish this 'smoothing out' could come
        from the cemetery and/or some from the University housing area to the East. I realize that I know little regarding the feasibility of these
        suggestions, just thought I'd throw the suggestions out there since an oval-about is no easy thing to accomplish either.

1500 E/1600 E
   • Add curb cuts along the west side of 1600 E, so kids can safely ride on sidewalks to school. Riding on the road, even though it's wide, is
       pretty bumpy along the side of the road each way.
   • Turning left onto Hwy. 89 from 1500 E can be nearly impossible.

Yield Signs at 1600 E and 1000 N
    • That intersection east of Hillcrest Elementary with the 2 yield signs and one stop sign is super weird and confusing.
    • Address the intersection on 1000 N & 1600 E that has 2 yield signs.
    • Add signage north of the 1600 E Ellendale intersection to indicate through traffic needs to turn right.
    • The two yields and one stop at Ellendale and 1600 are confusing. We looked up the rules but everyone treats them differently. A
         community information effort would be good. Door hangers explaining the expectation maybe?


Bike/Pedestrian Recommendations

General Suggestions
   • Bikes belong on the road (they are considered vehicles).
   • Crosswalk enforcement.
   • We need bulb-outs at all major crosswalks.
   • The main issue, which has not been addressed as far as I know, is the new concept of e-bikes and other "e" devices. These conveyances
       have the capacity to travel much faster than the "non-e" devices which they replace, and should be regulated by a different set of rules.
       IE E-bikes ridden at speeds similar to auto traffic should NOT be allowed on sidewalks or bike lanes, where they threaten traditional
       users of such pathways. Why wait until disasters begin to happen to regulate this phenomenon?
   • Do not have protected bike lanes.
   • Continue with the marked on-street bike lanes and ticket people that are parking in them.
   • I want our sidewalks to be in good repair, even where the sidewalk bisects the driveways - it is the sidewalk after all. I've witnessed some
       repairs on Hillcrest Avenue that were done while the totally crumbling sidewalks just a few feet away (that bisect the driveways) were
       not fixed.
   • Install better lighting.

1500 E/1600 E
    •   Safety along 1600 and 1500 E for bikes and pedestrians. More and improved crossings along that corridor.
    •   Provide pedestrian crossings at intersection of 1500 N and 1600 E.
    •   Flashing lights at the canyon entrance where cars turn north off the highway into our neighborhood by the country club. It's scary to
        cross as a pedestrian.
    •   We need a crosswalk that is safe to get to Lundstrom from the west side of 1600 (especially the NW side).

1500 N
   • Provide pedestrian crossing at top of hill of 1500 N (somewhere between 1350 E and 1400 E) - extremely hazardous due to blind curve at
       top of hill, and excessively wide road and high speeds.
   • With all of the new construction and increased traffic, I would like to see a way to slow down cars that are going west on 1500 N. With
       the decline, cars pick up speed, and there isn't a safe way to cross 1500 to get from one side of the canal path to the other.

1200 E
   • Crossing E/W along 1200 E is absolutely horrible and unsafe, we need more connections along this area.

1000 N/Ellendale
   • Widen sidewalk on Ellendale north of the Country Club.

Hillcrest Elementary
     • 900 North should have a speed bump or something especially during school hours as there is no crossing guard and people speed
         through there.
     • In the last 5 years, routing to Hillcrest Elementary has changed. Honestly, the city and school district has done a poor job of integrating
         safe routes to school. 1500 E should have been significantly different than what it is. Crosswalks are unsafe because cars have no reason
         to slow down with such a wide street and children are scared to cross at wide areas.

Missing Sidewalks
   • Sidewalks needed: E side of 1700 E between 1140 N and 1200 N (1150 N, 1160 N, and 1190 N), N side of 1185 N along S property line of
       1699 E 1185 N, E side of 1500 E and N of 1260 N (1284 N, 1296 N and 1513 E 1260 N, N side of 1260 N between 1500 E and 1600 E
       (south property line of 6 properties).
   • A few more strategically and appropriately placed crosswalks would enhance safety.

Bike Lanes
    • Add painted bike lanes on 1600 E, 1500 N, and other connector roads
    • Add bike lanes on 1200 E, 1500 E, 1600 E, and 1500 N.
    •   Add bike lanes on 1400 E.
    •   Additional bike lanes
    •   Install protected bike lanes.




Parks and Trails Questions

The final section of the questionnaire considered the condition and potential improvements to parks and trails. 96% of Residents felt that parks
were accessible to them, and nearly all respondents indicated that they typically walk or ride a bike to the park. Frequency of use was asked
regarding parks and trails. 11% of respondents for both parks and trail almost never used the facilities. Over 65% of Respondents indicated that
they used the trails weekly.
Suggested Park Improvements

General Suggestions
   • More active sports amenities, ballfields, and courts.
   • More active space.
   • More trees.
   • Hire a few more employees to take care of them.
   • Provide accessibility for everyone.
   • Provide more drinking fountains.
   • Provide more soccer fields, and more play areas for preschoolers.

Hillcrest Elementary
     • Get rid of the old school and make it a field as promised.
     • Very happy that the city had a signed document regarding the green space at the Hillcrest School.
Dog Park
   • More areas I can access with my dog.
   • A fully dedicated and fully developed dog park would be nice.

Lundstrom Park
   • Add a paved trail along southern side of Lundstrom Park connecting 1700 E to 1250 N, and curving across SE corner of the park to
       connect with trailhead at canal pedestrian crossing. This would provide an approx. .5 mile loop trail opportunity connecting with existing
       sidewalks on outer periphery of park for walkers, parents with strollers, etc.

Nature Park
   • Construction of Deer Pen Park.
   • I would like to see a green area in the old Deer Pen area.


Suggested Trail Improvements

General Suggestions
   • Get the trails connected.
   • Install better water and erosion controls.
   • Provide accessibility for all.
   • Install more signage.
   • Maintain the gravel surface rather than pavement.
   • Provide better connections to the Shoreline trail.

North connection trail between Aspen Dr and Bonneville Shoreline Trail
   • Changes to the trail slopes at north end.
   • Better drainage along shoreline and connector through the Deer Pen.
   • Redo the ridiculous E-W trail link connecting Bonneville Shoreline Trail westward to North Pointe Ct. It is excessively steep to the point of
       being inaccessible, and is already washing out. A meandering route through the Logan City Drainage easement, with some nice trail
       switchbacks crossing the dry creek over culverts would be functional and attractive, and actually useful rather than just showing a
       connection on a map.

South End of Canal Trail to Bonneville Shoreline Trail
    •   Provide a connection of south end of canal tail through golf course to Highland Trail. It will require tough negotiation with the LGCC, and
        funding for protective fencing, but it is high time that we get proactive about connectivity of our trails and open spaces.
    •   I'd love to solve the golf course connection problem.
    •   Access to the Bonneville Shoreline Trail near the area of the Logan Country Club golf course.
    •   Improve surface of Lundstrom trail and complete loop by providing access on north edge of golf course.
    •   Connect canal and shoreline on south end through country club.

Private Road Signage/Access
    • Provide additional signage about private roads not being trail access to the BST.

Canal Trail at Lundstrom Park
   • Provide ADA accessibility along the canal trail and a ramp from Lundstrom parking lot to the trail.
   • Ramp access to the canal trail from 1350 N, it is very difficult to get up the slope to the trail and my mother slipped and fractured her
        ankle there a couple of years ago. I would say stairs would be great, but a ramp would allow wheelchair users to get to the trail which
        would improve the park facility.
   • Provide trail access to canal at north end of Lundstrom at the top of 1350 E.
Section 4 – Updates to Goals and Recommendations
This section highlights proposed goals and recommendations that reinforce and build upon the recommendations of the 2016 Hillcrest Plan. This
list should be considered supplemental to the existing plan and not a replacement. The section is broken down into three parts: zoning and
housing, infrastructure, and parks and trails.

Zoning and Housing Recommendations

   1. Consider expansion of ADUs into the area of Hillcrest where
      they are currently not allowed
      Comments from the workshop and questionnaire expressed the
      desire to bolster owner occupied homes in the neighborhood.
      With rising home prices and rents, many residents are being
      priced out of homeownership. ADUs present an opportunity to
      help families own a home, by providing an opportunity for rental
      income from an ADU at the owner-occupied home. ADUs can
      also help to address housing affordable by providing lower rent
      housing options that are compatible with the neighborhood.



   2. Restrict STRs in single-family zones
      Every home in the neighborhood that becomes an STR deprives
      residents of a potential neighbor. The strength and vitality of
      Logan’s neighborhoods is enhanced through long-term
      investment, not by transient accommodations. Housing policy
      should prioritize owner occupancy.
                                                                         Figure 17 - Existing ADU Buffer and Proposed change in Hillcrest
   3. Prioritize property maintenance and occupancy enforcement in
      the neighborhood
      Over-occupancy and property maintenance, particularly at rental dwellings remains an ongoing concern in the neighborhood. Areas
      adjacent to campus are most impacted and Code Enforcement should prioritize proactive property maintenance and nuisance
      enforcement in the area.
   Infrastructure

1. Improve pedestrian connections around Hillcrest
   Elementary School
   The Hillcrest Neighborhood developed prior to ADA
   laws and under a street design regime that left
   much to be desired from a pedestrian perspective.
   The intersections around Hillcrest Elementary
   reflect the old design paradigm with ridiculously
   aligned streets, comically large corner radiuses,
   and crossings without adequate curb cuts or
   markings. Improvements around the school and
   future park should be the first priority for
   pedestrian improvements in the area.

   •   Provide ADA compliant crosswalks at all
       corners of the Hillcrest Elementary block.
           o Currently there are inadequate
               crossings at 900 N 1500 E, 900 N 1400
               E, and 1000 N 1400 E.
           o Install a midblock crossing at Davis Ave
               and 1400 E.
           o The 900 N 1500 E intersection is
               complicated by the landownership and
               parking design at the LDS church house
               at 875 N 1500 E. The City, School         Figure 18 - Hillcrest Crossing Improvements
               District, neighborhood, and LDS church
               should coordinate on a design that meets the needs and safety of the community.
   •   Reduce corner radiuses and narrow intersections.
           o Streets in Hillcrest were historically designed with wide radii. This may be helpful for cars to turn at higher speeds, but it is
               not ideal in residential areas where pedestrian access should be emphasizes. Changes to crossings around the school and
               park could provide an opportunity to address the radius of corners and allow for a narrower crossing.
2. Improve crossing at 1500 N 1600 E
   1600 E and 1500 N are a couple of the most
   important and busy corridors in the
   neighborhood, but the pedestrian
   infrastructure at their intersection is poorly
   designed for such a critical crossing.

    •   Provide ADA curb cuts and marked
        crossing
    •   Redesign the corners of the intersection
        with a reduced radius and install bulb-
        outs for traffic calming



                                                    Figure 19 - Traffic calming and complete street design applied to 1500 N 1600 E intersection.


3. Complete plans and construct pedestrian
   trail crossing at 1500 N and the canal trail
   The neighborhood is in full support of the
   efforts by Parks to install a trail crossing
   along 1500 N. The crossing should be highly
   visible and include flashing beacons.




                                                     Figure 20 - 1500 N heading towards Aspen Dr
Parks and Trail

    1. Redesign the north connection trail between Aspen
       Drive and the Bonneville Shoreline Trail
       This trail section is steep and subject to erosion. There
       is opportunity to realign the trail to meander with the
       contours in the area and cross over the drainage
       channel.



    2. Lundstrom Park Improvements
       • Connect Lundstrom Park to the Canal Trail.
          A graded connection at the north end of Lundstrom
          Park that connected to the existing sidewalks and
          pathways in the park would enhance the
          accessibility of the trail.
       • Improve Lundstrom Park internal pathways
          connections.
          Continue planned sidewalk improvements along
          1350 N, and connect the southern end of park with
          internal pathway to create park walking loop. The
          pathways should be designed as a feature for the
          park and focus on user experience.
       • Continue urban forestry planning efforts in the
          public spaces of Hillcrest.
          Park trees have been severely damaged and several
          have been removed due to storms in the last few
          years. With an aging tree population and plans for    Figure 21 - Figure 21 - Shoreline connection trail with meander.
          pathway improvements, planning efforts should be
          directed to preservation of tree canopy and considering tree succession.
    Figure 22 - New trails in Lundstrom Park - Proposed alignment provided by Michael Timmons




3. Revisit efforts to connect the canal trail and
   Bonneville Shoreline Trail at the southern
   end
   This gap is a frustrating reality for many, as
   the prospect of connection is so visible to
   users. The City, LGCC, and neighborhood
   should attempt to reengage on the topic and
   see if there is opportunity for a trail easement
   through the area.



                                                             Figure 23 - Canal to Shoreline Connector Trail
