CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 25-18

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:  That certain map or maps entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Ellis, Adams, and Wilson Neighborhood and as identified in
Exhibit A, as attached, are hereby rezoned with the Historic District Overlay Zone.

SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

ADOPTED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL THIS ____ DAY OF _________, 2025.

        Anderson, Amy Z.        ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained  ( ) Excused
        Anderson, Mark A.       ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained  ( ) Excused
        Johnson, Mike           ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained  ( ) Excused
        López, Ernesto          ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained  ( ) Excused
        Simmonds, Jeannie F.    ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained  ( ) Excused

                                        _____________________________
                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair
ATTEST:

_____________________________
Teresa Harris, City Recorder


PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

    The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the ___ day of _______________, 2025.

                                        _____________________________
                                        Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair

MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

    The foregoing ordinance is hereby _______________ this _____ day of _______________, 2025.

                                        _____________________________
                                        Holly H. Daines, Mayor

---
[Page 2]

EXHIBIT A

[map/plat page 2 — no text. Aerial/street map of Logan showing Historic District Overlay Zone boundary options. Legend: Historic District Boundary (red); Recommendation 1 - Boundary Corrections (green); Recommendation 2 - Partial Expansion Around the Logan Temple (blue); Recommendation 3 - Full Expansion (black). Labels visible: Eliason Park, Logan, Merlin Olsen Central Park, Garff Wayside Gardens, S Main St, Kilowatt Park. Scale bar: 0 / 0.13 / 0.25 / 0.5 Miles. Source note: Sources: Esri, TomTom, Garmin, FAO, NOAA, USGS, (c) OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community]

---
[Page 3]

[Logo: LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE / COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

DATE:       September 29, 2025
FROM:       Russ Holley, Senior Planner
SUBJECT:    Ordinance #25-18 Historic District Overlay Zone

Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                                   Historic District Overlay Zone
Request:                                        Zoning Map Amendment
Project Address:                                NA
Recommendation of the Planning Commission:      Deny full expansion

On Sept 11, 2025, the Planning Commission recommended denial for the full expansion and
approval of only the clean up map proposal to the Municipal Council for the Overlay Zone
Amendment.

Planning Commissioners vote (3-2):
Motion: Doutre
Second: McNamara
Recommend Approval: Doutre, McNamara, Peterson
Nay: Duncan, Lucero
Abstain: none


Summary of Historic Preservation Committee Proceedings
Project Name:                                   Historic District Overlay Zone
Request:                                        Zoning Map Amendment
Project Address:                                NA
Recommendation of the Planning Commission:      Approve full expansion

On August 18th, 2025, the Historic Preservation Committee recommended approval for the full
expansion map proposal

HP Committee vote (4-1):
Motion: Needham
Second: McCulloch
Yea: Needham, Pumphrey, Price, McCulloch
Nay: O'Hara  Abstain:

---
[Page 4]

Attachments
Meeting Minutes
Ordinance #25-18
Staff Report
Slides


PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES   September 11, 2025
PC 25-049 Historic District Boundary Adjustment [Zone Change] The recently completed Historic
Preservation Reconnaissance Level Survey recommends expanding the Historic District Overlay
Zone boundary.
Staff/Proponent: Russ Holley, Logan City Planner, reviewed the request to expand the Historic District
Overlay Boundary following the 2025 Reconnaissance Level Survey (RLS). The 2025 survey
assessed all properties within the current Historic District as well as adjacent properties, anticipating
possible future expansion.  The survey supports the City's design review process by providing an
updated basis for evaluating Certificates of Appropriateness and other planning decisions within the
district. Currently, the district includes approximately 500 structures covering 200 acres. The survey
used the following rating system: B – eligible/contributing, C – ineligible/non-contributing, D – out of
period/non-contributing, U – undetermined, and X – demolished.

Due to the 50-year National Register threshold, the RLS survey now includes buildings constructed
between 1967 and 1980 as they are now considered historic. Approximately 21 buildings within the
current district boundary are now eligible or near eligibility.

Out of the 790 properties evaluated in the 2025 RLS, 622 (79%) were found to be eligible/contributing
(rated B), 113 (14%) were ineligible/non-contributing (rated C), 21 (3%) were out of period (rated D),
none were undetermined (U), and 35 (4%) were demolished (X).

Out of the B rated buildings, 67% are residences, 14% are commercial, 5% are multi-family, 1% are
religious, and 1% are architectural.

Any property rated at a B level can apply to be nominated to the National Historic Building Registry,
which allows the owner to qualify for a 20% tax credit for the rehabilitation of the historic building.

R. Holley reviewed the proposed boundary changes: Recommendation 1 includes making some small
corrections to the boundary to follow property lines (green option); Recommendation 2 includes a
partial expansion of the boundary around the Logan Temple (blue option); and Recommendation 3,
which includes both recommendations 1 and 2, and includes expanding the overall district boundary
to the north and southwest (black option).

R. Holley stated there were 15 letters received on this project, and 90% were opposed to the district's
expansion.

R. Holley reviewed the pros and cons of the Historic District.  Some of the pros include a higher
percentage of home ownership and owner occupancy within a Historic District, a higher sense of pride
in the neighborhood, having a unique home, and access to tax credits for renovation work.  Some of
the cons include a higher cost to renovate due to material requirements in the historic district, and
remodel projects having to be reviewed for approval by the City and the Historic Preservation

---
[Page 5]

Committee.

Commissioner Doutre asked how many homes are currently on the National Registry.  R. Holley said
there are less than 50 buildings on the National Registry.

Commissioner Doutre asked if the City was considering applying for an area of homes to be on the
National Registry.  R. Holley said that could be considered, but was not part of this RLS contract.

Commissioner Duncan asked what areas the letters came from. R. Holley said that 90% of the letters
received came from homeowners west of Main Street.

Commissioner Doutre wanted to confirm that buildings are only eligible for the tax credit if they are on
the National Registry, and that the majority of the buildings in the Historic District are not on the
National Registry.  R. Holley said that is correct.

Public: Jarin Murray said that a homeowner can get on the National Registry to receive the tax credit
without being in the Historic District. Commission: Commissioner Doutre asked what the process
would be to remodel a historic building within the Historic District, a non-contributing building within
the Historic District, and to build a new home within the Historic District.  R. Holley stated that a
commercial building would have to be reviewed by the Historic Preservation Committee to obtain a
Certificate of Appropriateness as well as the Planning Commission for Design Review.  A new home
or a larger visible addition or alteration to a building within the Historic District is required to go
through the Historic Preservation Committee (HPC) to receive a Certificate of Appropriateness before
a building permit can be obtained.  The HPC verifies compatibility with the adjacent properties. A non-
contributing or new building within the Historic District is also reviewed by either the HPC or the PC,
but is not required to be remodeled to create false history. Commissioner Duncan referenced a stone
duplex in the Historic District that burned down and had to be rebuilt.  The owner was not required to
rebuild with a stone exterior. Commissioner Peterson stated that the Historic District should not be
imposed on property owners who did not ask for it, and asked the Commissioners for their thoughts
on the boundary recommendations.
Commissioner Duncan spoke about living on West Center Street and having her home potentially
devalued by surrounding properties not following the design guidelines of the Historic District.
Commissioner Duncan also stated that she is a former member of the HPC and feels there is inherent
value in preserving the existing historic homes and expanding the Historic District.

Commissioner Doutre stated that expanding the Historic District takes away rights from homeowners.
If someone owns a non-historic home in the district and needs to install new windows, but is not
allowed to install vinyl windows, that would be a huge cost.  Commissioner Doutre also mentioned
that there are more eligible properties in the expansion around the temple than in the west side
expansion.

Commissioner Lucero asked if the non-eligible homes in the Historic District are subject to the Historic
District standards.  R. Holley said they are subject to the design standards.

Commissioner Lucero said she is supportive of a smaller expansion.  And asked if the Historic District
review is mandated.  R. Holley said it is not mandated, but good to do every 10 – 15 years to have
relevant up-to-date information when a project is reviewed.

Commissioner Lucero said it would be helpful to have the numbers to see how many people there are
in the expansion areas with a non-eligible home that would become subject to the Historic District
Standards.  Commissioner Lucero stated that it would also be helpful to see the income data for the
proposed expansion areas.

Commissioner McNamara said there is great value in property owner rights.  People who did not want

---
[Page 6]

to be within the Historic District should not be forced into it.  McNamara stated that without the
numbers showing how many people an expansion would affect, she would be comfortable with
recommendation 1 to clean up the boundary line.

Commissioner Doutre asked if there are many code enforcement cases on people not following the
permitting process for the Historic District.  Mike DeSimone said there are not many.

Commissioner Doutre spoke about the majority of Logan homes being eligible for the Historic District
based on their age and said that the focus should be on getting eligible homes in the district on the
National Registry instead of expanding the district.

MOTION: Commissioner Duncan made a motion to forward a recommendation of approval to the
Municipal Council of a full expansion of the Historic District (recommendation 3) for PC 25-049.
There was no second made so the motion failed.

MOTION 2: Commissioner McNamara made a motion to forward a recommendation of approval to
the Municipal Council of a boundary clean-up of the Historic District (recommendation 1) for PC 25-
049.  There was no second made so the motion failed.

MOTION 3: Commissioner Lucero made a motion to forward a recommendation of approval to the
Municipal Council of a partial expansion of the Historic District around the Logan Temple
(recommendation 2).  Commissioner Duncan seconded the motion.  The motion failed with a vote of
2-3

    Yea: Lucero, Duncan          Nay: Doutre, Peterson, McNamara,

The Commission discussed recommending a smaller expansion near the Temple that would include
the Whittier Center.

The Commission also discussed the number of buildings in the proposed expansion areas that are
lower-income and do not qualify as historic.

MOTION 4: Commissioner Doutre made a motion to forward a recommendation of approval to the
Municipal Council on the boundary clean-up of the Historic District (Recommendation 1) with the
findings for approval as listed below. Commissioner McNamara seconded the motion.  The motion
passed with a vote of 3-2

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1. The report recommends and expansion of the overlay zone based on the quality of historic
   structures.
2. The Historic Preservation Committee recommended the full expansion of the district overlay zone.
3. The Logan City General Plan and Land Development Code recognize and support historic
   preservation in the City.
4. The Center Street Historic District Design Standards ensure quality and compatible development
   and building additions that enhance the character of the district.

Moved: S. Doutre          Second: S. McNamara          Approved: 3-2

Yea: Doutre, McNamara, Peterson          Nay: Duncan, Lucero          Abstain:

---
[Page 7]

[Logo: LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE / COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT]

                                        Project #25-049
                                        Historic District Boundary
                                        Overlay Zone Amendment

REPORT SUMMARY...
Project Name:           Historic District Overlay Zone Amendment
Proponent/Owner:        Logan City Community Development / NA
Project Address:        Multiple
Request:                Expand Overlay Zone Boundaries
Current Zoning:         Varies
Date of Hearing:        September 11, 2025
Type of Action:         Legislative
Submitted By:           Russ Holley, Senior Planner


RECOMMENDATION
The Historic Preservation Committee forwards a recommendation of approval to the Planning
Commission and Municipal Council for a overlay zone amendment expanding the Historic
District.

PROJECT
The Community Development Department received a matching grant from the Utah State
Preservation Office (SHPO) to complete a new Reconnaissance Level Survey (RLS) for the
Logan City Center Street Historic District (CSHD). After awarding the project to IO Landarch
(Consultant) and determining the project budget and scope, it was recommended to also survey
select adjacent properties outside of the current CSHD boundary to determine eligibility for
historic preservation.

The new 2025 RLS itself is simply a new tool used by city staff as a reference in historic
preservation projects and does not require public hearings or formal adoption. An RLS is also a
required step if a property wishes to be listed on the National Registry. After completing the RLS
for the existing district and adjacent properties, it was recommended by the consultant that the
Center Street Historic District boundary be expanded. This boundary change would require a
zoning map amendment by the Land Use Authority. There are three expansion options listed
below in figure #2. The Historic Preservation Committee recommended the full expansion (black
lines).

The Planning Commission will need to review the attached documents and form a
recommendation for the zoning map boundary change that will then go forward to the City
Council in the coming months.

Project #25-049 Historic District Boundary          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of September 11, 2025
                                        1

---
[Page 8]

[map/plat page 8 — Figure 1 aerial map: existing Historic District Overlay Zone shown with purple boundary outline over aerial imagery of Logan.]
Figure 1: Shows the existing Historic District Overlay Zone.

[map/plat page 8 — Figure 2 map: three proposed overlay zone expansions. Legend: Historic District Boundary (red); Recommendation 1 - Boundary Corrections (green); Recommendation 2 - Partial Expansion Around the Logan Temple (blue); Recommendation 3 - Full Expansion (black). Labels: Eliason Park, Logan, Merlin Olsen Central Park, Garff Wayside Gardens, S Main St, Kilowatt Park. Scale bar 0 / 0.13 / 0.25 / 0.5 Miles. Source: Esri, TomTom, Garmin, FAO, NOAA, USGS, (c) OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community]
Figure 2: Shows the three proposed overlay zone expansions.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
No agency or department comments have been received.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the
time of this report, over a dozens comments, phone calls, written, and HPC public

Project #25-049 Historic District Boundary          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of September 11, 2025
                                        2

---
[Page 9]

statements, have been received. The majority of the comments are in opposition to the
expansion. They are attached for review and consideration.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 8/30/25 and the Utah Public Meeting
website on 9/1/25. Public notices were mailed to all property owners within 300 feet of the
project site on 8/25/25.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS OF APPROVAL
The Planning Commission bases its decision on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
    1.  The report recommends and expansion of the overlay zone based on the quality of
        historic structures.
    2.  The Historic Preservation Committee recommended the full expansion of the district
        overlay zone.
    3.  The Logan City General Plan and Land Development Code recognize and support
        historic preservation in the City.
    4.  The Center Street Historic District Design Standards ensure quality and compatible
        development and building additions that enhance the character of the district.

This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents, standard city development practices, and available information.  The report is to be used
to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting.  Additional information may be revealed by
participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development
reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional information at the Planning Commission meeting.

Project #25-049 Historic District Boundary          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of September 11, 2025
                                        3

---
[Page 10]

HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMITTEE
MEETING MINUTES
August 18, 2025

PUBLIC HEARING:

HPC 25-009 2025 Reconnaissance Level Survey and Historic District Overlay Zone Boundary
Adjustment.  The Logan City Historic Preservation Committee has received an application requesting
the Committee's review of the results of the newly completed 2025 Reconnaissance Level Survey
(RLS), which includes all properties within the current Historic District boundary as well as eligible
adjacent properties. The Committee will also consider changes to the Historic District Overlay
boundary to potentially expand the district to include additional contributing historic structures.

STAFF:
Russ Holley explained that this item is a legislative action, meaning the committee makes a
recommendation rather than a final decision. Last fall, the City received a $15,000 SHPO grant to
conduct a new Reconnaissance Level Survey (RSL), the first full update since 2011. The consultant
reviewed 513 structures across 194 acres using current SHPO and National Park Service standards.

The report recommends boundary changes, updates classifications (significant, contributing, eligible),
and now recognizes buildings from 1975 as eligible under the 50-year rule. The survey identified 622
"B" graded properties, mostly residential, and included examples of how the current survey reporting
differs from older surveys.

Russ noted that local districts are established under zoning ordinances and reviewed by this
committee for appropriateness, while National Register listings function separately. He also
highlighted preservation tax credits available to property owners. Survey results showed that 82% of
the properties within the existing Historic District boundary area, 85% of the properties in the East
Temple survey area, and 81% of the properties in the proposed combined area were identified as "B"
graded. He reviewed the zoning map, legislative process, and clarified discrepancies in the
consultant's mapping.

Bronwyn asked why the Café Sabor parking lot was left out of the district. Russ explained that
boundaries sometimes follow property lines and may not have been updated when the use changed,
because in 1978, the property was not being used as a restaurant.

Joe asked about the benefits of being in the district. Russ said positives include higher owner
occupancy, curb appeal, and pride in ownership, while challenges are additional permitting, higher
renovation costs, and material limitations. Historic District requirements apply only to the exterior of
structures, and primarily just the front façades. The National Register listing offers tax credit
opportunities provided at least $10,000 is spent on renovation.  Joe also asked if the "X" overlay zone
would be expanded. Russ said it is an independent zoning action and will need to be reviewed at a
later date.

Questions were raised about programs and historic grading. Russ Price asked if "A" and "B" grades
declined since 2011. Russ Holley believed they were similar but did not have exact numbers. Russ
Price also asked about the new use of "significant" for "A" properties, and Russ Holley showed where
it is recorded on the survey document.

The committee discussed overlay districts and related questions. Russ Price asked Russ Holley to
explain their function. Russ Price noted that the overlay district does not alter the underlying zoning.
Russ Holley added that base regulations, such as setbacks, land use, and parking, remain the same,
and that the overlay provides only an additional layer of review for exterior renovations. Darcy asked
about zoning flexibility mentioned by the consultant. Russ Holley explained that any changes would

---
[Page 11]

require a future legislative decision tied to the overlay boundary. Russ Price asked whether structures
behind primary buildings are included. Bronwyn asked if only buildings visible from the street are
subject to Historic Preservation Committee review. Russ Holley confirmed that all buildings, including
outbuildings and accessory structures, were surveyed, and clarified that the level of review varies
based on a structure's location and visibility.

Bronwyn also asked about demolition delays and whether the Commission can deny building
demolitions.  Russ explained that the committee cannot prohibit demolition but can delay it and
require documentation about the building, the property, or any significant history of the site. She
asked about tax credits for past work and Russ clarified they are not retroactive. Joe noted that
overlay protections also help prevent additional buildings or apartments in neighborhoods.
Russ Holley stated that most letters and calls received were opposed to any expansion of the district.

The Commission asked why this RSL only covered the area shown, and did not include other areas or
neighborhoods that appear to be historically significant. Mike stated that the total amount of funding
for the project was $30,000, of which the CLG was only $15,000, and that amount of funding was
sufficient only to resurvey within the existing boundary and the areas shown in the proposed
expansion.  He explained that consultants evaluated the additional areas because they contained a
high concentration of historic structures and were contiguous to the existing Historic District.

PUBLIC:

Leo Hargreaves asked if the survey area matched the proposed expansion. He reiterated concerns
from his letter, noting his empty lot has no historic value and he hopes the district will not be
expanded to include his barn. Leo also asked whether the boundary is all-or-nothing or if changes
could be made, specifically regarding his property. He also asked if a building on his lot, not visible
from the street, would be affected. Mike explained that the boundary functions similar to a zoning line
and the committee would not want to split a property. He also clarified that the "X" overlay, created in
the early 1990s to preserve pioneer block layouts, could theoretically allow subdivision of Leo's
property, but there is currently no clear answer on whether that would apply.

Bronwyn asked if a building was to be put back there, and it was not visible from the street, would the
committee be consulted?  Mike responded that the standard of review is lower if it is not visible from
the street.

Tristan Wardle asked if the presentation would be available online. He shared his address and stated
he is not in favor of the expansion.

John Shivik expressed concern that pre-1970s buildings could be considered historic and asked
about permitting and the definition of "minimal" work. He discussed that there is a modern home in the
historic district. He asked about a condemned home. Russ Holley explained these are defined in the
standards, and Mike noted that even condemned structures must be reviewed. Bronwyn clarified that
the committee only reviews renovation applicants, and Mike described the Track 1 and Track 2
processes, adding that the 50-year standard follows national guidelines and focuses on Logan's
broader historic fabric, not just 1800s homes. John expressed hesitation about expansion. Russ
Holley clarified that the new home referenced is not in the district, though Bronwyn noted it could be in
the future. Russ Price emphasized that the committee issues Certificates of Appropriateness, applies
the standards, and considers historicity in context.

Aaron Weekes stated he has worked for years to save money for renovations and worries that
expansion would increase costs and red tape. He opposed the expansion.

David Lewis, a longtime committee member and district resident, said he has repeatedly used the

---
[Page 12]

20% state tax credit for renovations, even on interior work. He emphasized that being in the district is
both a responsibility and a financial benefit and strongly supports expansion.

Keith Mott, a longtime resident and former committee member, said he received tax credits for major
renovations and found the review process straightforward and helpful. He has seen the district
improve over 33 years and views it as a benefit with few drawbacks.

Scott Kirby, who owns a buildable lot that is within the proposed area of expansion,  asked how the
standards would affect his plans to build a new home, including the use of vinyl siding. Russ Price
said the committee would consider the overall design but likely object to vinyl siding. Joe noted
alternatives like hardy board are acceptable.

The committee explained that Certificates of Appropriateness follow design standards and should be
consistent with neighboring properties. Russ Price noted that complaints usually arise when approvals
occur that people wish the committee wouldn't allow, rather than restricting choices. Joe and Mike
clarified that the committee does not dictate design but follows standards adopted within the last five
years.

Scott also asked when the expansion would be approved. The timeline for review and adoption was
reiterated.

Jaynan Chancellor asked about the black line boundary and properties outside it, particularly houses
in the Hillcrest area. Mike responded that properties outside the black line will not be included, as they
were not surveyed and properties elsewhere in the City would need to be evaluated under a new
Historic District created independently of this current district

COMMITTEE:
The committee discussed funding, process, and potential district changes. Andrea asked about the
project budget. Mike said the project budget was $30,000, $15,000 from a state grant and the rest
from the City. Andrea suggested surveying a larger area if more funding were available to include
additional properties.

Darcy asked what the Planning Commission looks for in making a decision on the proposed district
boundary change. Russ Holley explained that they are also a recommending body, with the City
Council making the final decision.

Russ Price suggested creating rolling guidelines so all buildings over 50 years could be considered,
and recommended clearer guidance for façade remodeling within specific periods. He also suggested
correcting the current district boundaries. Mike noted that the 50-year standard is a national standard,
and because these most recent design standards are approximately 6 years old, revising the historic
design guidelines is not in the current 5–10-year work program. Joe asked if other committees could
draw boundaries. Mike clarified that the review and approval of any district boundary change is a
legislative and political process, and the Historic Preservation Committee's input is considered. Mike
emphasized that boundaries should follow logical edges, but that has not always been the case.
Andrea asked about recommending expansion beyond what is shown under this proposed expansion.
Russ explained additional areas have not been surveyed, they have not been noticed, and action
cannot be taken outside the noticing process. Andrea noted a corridor of houses she would include,
but Mike reiterated that it is a separate process and excluded from this boundary review.

Bronwyn thanked the public for their input and said she is torn but supports keeping the district as is.
Bronwyn noted SHPO guidance allows homes or rentals but not short-term rentals; Mike clarified that
zoning regulates Airbnb use, and not the historic district design guidelines.

MOTION:

---
[Page 13]

Bronwyn O'Hara moved that the Historic Preservation Committee recommend Option One (Boundary
Corrections). The motion failed for a lack of a second.

Darcy Pumphrey moved that the Historic Preservation Committee recommend Options One and Two
(Boundary Corrections and Partial Expansion around the Logan Temple). The motion failed for a lack
of a second.

Joe Needham moved that the Historic Preservation Committee recommend Option Three (Full
Expansion, which includes all three options) to the Planning Commission and City Council with the
purview that they make adjustments as they see fit. Andrea McCulloch seconded the motion.

The committee had further discussion about the full expansion and about citizens supporting the
expansion and the process of moving on to the Planning Commission and Council.

Moved: J. Needham          Seconded: A. McCulloch          Approved: 4-1

Yea: Needham, Pumphrey, Price, McCulloch          Nay: O'Hara  Abstain:

---
[Page 14]

[map/plat page 14 — no text. Map of Logan Historic District Overlay Zone boundary and expansion options. Legend: Historic District Boundary (red); Recommendation 1 - Boundary Corrections (green); Recommendation 2 - Partial Expansion Around the Logan Temple (blue); Recommendation 3 - Full Expansion (black). Labels: Eliason Park, Logan, Merlin Olsen Central Park, Garff Wayside Gardens, S Main St, Kilowatt Park. Scale bar 0 / 0.13 / 0.25 / 0.5 Miles. Source: Esri, TomTom, Garmin, FAO, NOAA, USGS, (c) OpenStreetMap contributors, and the GIS User Community]
