CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 25-16

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:  The Land Development Code, City of Logan, Utah" Chapter 17.27 "Planned Development Overlay" and the certain map entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby amended and the following properties in the Woodruff Neighborhood and as specifically identified in Exhibit A & B, as attached, are hereby zoned from Traditional Neighborhood Residential (NR-6) to Traditional Neighborhood Residential (NR-6) Planned Development Overlay (PDO).

SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

ADOPTED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL THIS ____ DAY OF _________, 2025.

Anderson, Amy Z.        ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained   ( ) Excused
Anderson, Mark A.       ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained   ( ) Excused
Johnson, Mike           ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained   ( ) Excused
López, Ernesto          ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained   ( ) Excused
Simmonds, Jeannie F.    ( ) Aye  ( ) Nay   ( ) Abstained   ( ) Excused

______________________________
Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair

ATTEST:

______________________________
Teresa Harris, City Recorder


PRESENTATION TO MAYOR

    The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for approval or disapproval on the___day of_______________, 2025.

______________________________
Jeannie F. Simmonds, Chair

MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL

The foregoing ordinance is hereby_______________this_____day of_______________, 2025.

______________________________
Holly H. Daines, Mayor


=== PDF page 2 ===

EXHIBIT A

Willow Lakes Phase 5 Planned Development Overlay Zone
~1100 South 1400 West

[map/plat page 2 — no text] — aerial map. Legible labels: "1400 WEST", "City Boundary Line", "1100 S / 1100 South", "1000 W", "SOUTHGATE", "900 W", "Slalom Lake", "Willow Lakes PD Overlay 'Central Area'", "Willow Lakes PD Overlay 'West Area'", "Willow Lakes PD Overlay 'East Area'", "Willow Lakes Drive", "SLALOM CTR", "DAHLE", "WILLOW LAKES", "NR-6" (three locations), "1000 WEST", "REC", "Proposed Overlay Zone", "Aug 2025". Compass rose (N/S/E/W).


=== PDF page 3 ===

EXHIBIT B

[Exhibit B page — otherwise blank; no additional text]


=== PDF page 4 ===

CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                    August 19, 2025 • Page 27B-1
                                                          17.27B:PD-2: Willow Lake Phase 5

Chapter 17.27B: PD-2: Willow Lake Phase 5

§17.27B.010  Location and Purpose
    The location of the PD-2 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Planned Development is limited to the 12-acre Phase 5 land area of the Willow Lakes Subdivision. This area is located south of 1100 South street, west of 1000 West Street and north of Slalom Lake. Phase 5 is divided into three distinctive areas: the "West Area" (Parcels 1 & K listed on Phase 3 plat), "Central Area" (Parcel K), and the "East Area" (Parcel D). Willow Lakes Drive intersects 1100 South between the West and Central Areas.

    The purpose of this Planned Development Overlay is to allow for flexibility and additional land use not currently permitted in the NR-6 zoning district including the following:
    1.  One (1) 40,000 square foot boat club, fitness, event hall, and office commercial building located in the west area of the planned development.
    2.  Five (5) beachfront homes used as short-term rentals located in the west area adjacent to Willow Lakes Drive.
    3.  Eleven (11) single family building lots located in the central area adjacent to Slalom Lake.
    4.  Five (5) mansion home style multi-family buildings containing up to four dwelling units each located in the central area north of Slalom Lake.
    5.  One (1) sixty (60) bed assisted living building located in the east area adjacent to 1000 West.

§17.27B.020  Applicability and Context
    This Planned Development will be labeled as PD-2 Willow Lake Phase 5 Planned Development. The entire site contains approximately 12 acres and consists of three areas. The underlying zoning of the site remains Neighborhood Residential (NR-6).

    Refer to the Planning Commission project PC#25-041 for meeting minutes, staff reports, and project exhibits and details for this Planned Development. The original Willow Lake Subdivision permit was issued on March 11, 2021, as per PC#21-009 Willow Lakes Subdivision.

§17.27B.030  Allowed Uses
    The permitted uses allowed in the PD-2 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Planned Development are as listed in Land Development Code (LDC) Table 17.08.080 for the NR-6 base zone and as specifically listed below:
    1.  Fitness Center, Spa, Boat Club, Event Hall w/ Observation Deck, Office, HOA Management, Short Term Residential Rentals, Multi-Family Residential, and Assisted Living.

§17.27B.040  Prohibited Uses
    Any land use not explicitly permitted in Table 17.08.080 for the NR-6 zoning district and not specifically listed above in 17.27B.030 are prohibited.

§17.27B.050  Building Design and Site Requirements
    1.  The commercial boat house/fitness/office/event building may be up to 40,000 square feet in size and no taller than 43 feet. The final building design and site plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission through the formal Design


=== PDF page 5 ===

CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                    August 19, 2025 • Page 27B-2
                                                          17.27B:PD-2: Willow Lake Phase 5

        Review Permit application process prior to building permit issuance. The Design Review Permit approval shall be based on COM zoning setbacks, open space, parking, pedestrian circulation, landscaping, and building design standards.
    2.  The five beachfront homes may be up to 6,000 square feet in size and are designated as Short Term Rentals. Setbacks for these homes are 20 feet front yard, 5 feet side yard, and 10 feet rear yard. All five of these homes may be legally established as short-term rentals, with standard LDC proximity requirements waived. STR licensing, parking and occupancy standards are still applicable and based on current LDC standards. A Design Review Permit is not required for these homes. A business license is required for these short-term rentals. If the homes are built on individual building lots, a subdivision permit is required prior to the issuance of any building permits.
    3.  The eleven single-family home sites in the central area will be required to obtain building permits based on NR-6 regulations. A subdivision permit is required prior to the issuance of any building permits.
    4.  The five mansion home style multi-family buildings may have up to 4 dwelling units within each structure. A Design Review Permit is required and based on MR-9 zoning standards for each building prior to construction. If built on individual lots, a subdivision permit is required.
    5.  The assisted living building may have up to 60 beds and built to a maximum height of 43 feet. A Design Review Permit is required for this building and approvals will be based on MR-12 zoning standards, including parking, setbacks, landscaping, and pedestrian circulation.

§17.27B.060  Approved Residential Densities & Unit Count
    The approved Planned Development includes 36 total residential units (includes five STR homes) for an overall density of 3 units/acre (12 acre site).

§17.27B.070  Development Standards - Commercial Component
    All commercial development shall comply with the minimum development standards contained in the Land Development Code unless otherwise modified in this section.

§17.27B.080  Development Standards – Additional Requirements
    This Planned Development Overlay requires improvements outside of the Phase 5 project boundaries based on additional commercial land use permissions and associated impacts. Additional multi-use trail connections shall be made from phase 5 areas that connect to the Logan River trail network south of the site. 1400 West Street, north of the Phase 5 area, shall be extended to the intersection of 600 South. Although the ultimate classification is a major arterial, the initial construction and cross section of this street shall be based on the neighborhood street spec within the Logan City Transportation Master Plan. Additional physical traffic calming elements shall be added to this street between 1100 South and 600 South that ensure vehicular traffic travels at the posted speed limit. The construction of these infrastructure improvements shall be completed prior to the Certificate of Occupancy for the Fitness Center/Boat Club building.

§17.27B.090  Signage
    Signage for commercial and assisted living buildings shall comply with LDC 17.33 and sign permits shall be obtained prior to installation.

§17.27B.100  Compliance with Approved Development Plan
    All site development and building construction shall occur as approved in the PD-2 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Planned Development and subsequently required Design Review Permits.


=== PDF page 6 ===

CITY OF LOGAN • LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE                    August 19, 2025 • Page 27B-3
                                                          17.27B:PD-2: Willow Lake Phase 5

§17.27B.110  Compliance with Adopted Land Use Standards & Building Codes
    Unless otherwise modified in this PD overlay, all construction and development contained within the PD-2 Willow Lakes Phase 5 Planned Development shall comply with all City land use and development standards and building codes as adopted.


=== PDF page 7 ===

LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE / COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT [logo]

Project #25-041
Willow Lakes Planned Development Overlay 2
Located at approximately 1100 South 1400 West

REPORT SUMMARY…
Project Name:           Willow Lakes Planned Development Overlay 2
Proponent / Owner:      Brett Jensen / Willow Lakes Holdings LLC
Project Address:        ~1100 South 1400 West
Request:                Planned Development Overlay
Current Zoning:         Neighborhood Residential (NR-6)
Type of Action:         Legislative / Quasi-Judicial
Hearing Date:           August 14th, 2025
Submitted By:           Russ Holley, Senior Planner

OVERVIEW
The PDO request is for the 12-acre phase 5 area of the Willow Lake project in the Woodruff Neighborhood. The PDO request includes new commercial, short-term-rental, assisted living, and multi-family land uses. As part of the Planned Development Overlay (PDO) process, the initial concept plan review was conducted at the Commission, Council, and Neighborhood level. That applicant has made changes to the condominium portion of the original PDO concept review.

Current Land use adjoining the subject property
North:  Outside of Logan City Boundary      East:  NR-6: Residential Uses
South:  NR-6: Residential Uses               West:  NR-6: Residential Uses

Current Zoning and FLUP Designation
The site is currently zoned NR-6 and designated on the Future Land Use Plan Map as Detached Residential (DR). The recently completed Woodruff neighborhood plan designates this area as single family residential.

Project Proposal
This proposal is for the 12-acre phase 5 of the Willow Lakes project. Phases 1-4 have already been approved and platted. Construction is underway on the two artificial lakes, public infrastructure, and single-family homes. This PDO proposal is for a new 40,000 SF Fitness/Boat Club Commercial Building, 5 Beachfront Homes intended for short-term rental, 11 single family home building lots, 5 mansion style multi-family structures, and a 60-bed Assisted Living two-story building located near the 1000 West frontage.

[site plan figure — no text] — Legible labels: "Anticipated Single-Family Area", "Anticipated Multi-Family Area", "SLALOM SKI", "BEACH AREA", "NO WAKE PADDLE AREA", "ASSISTED LIVING".
Figure 1 shows the proposed phase 5 area within the yellow dashed lines.
- 1 -


=== PDF page 8 ===

Boat Club & Fitness Commercial Building
The concept plan shows a large commercial building near the far west edge of phase 5. The three-story, 40,000 SF building with upper floor observation decks, is located along the north shore of the Big Wake and Tube Lake. Access to the commercial building is via the new 1000 South public street. Parking areas are shown north of the building and a series of beach amenities are shown along the lake edge. This commercial building is planned with Clubhouse/Events area, Fitness/Gym area, and associated office space.

[site plan figure — no text] — Legible labels: "CLUBHOUSE", "FITNESS SPA", "OBSERVATION DECK", "BOAT HOUSE", "FOOD PATIO", "BEACH HOMES", "SURF WAVE", "BEACH AREA", "SWIM[MING]".
Figure 2 shows the Fitness/Boat Club on the right and the 5 beach homes on the left.

Beach Homes
East of the Fitness Center building, the proposal shows 5 beach front single family homes along the Big Wake and Tube Lake north beach. The home design shows vehicular access from the north via the fitness center parking lot and the south yards of the homes have direct access to the beach. These 5 homes are being proposed as short-term rentals.

Additional Residential
Farther east along the north shore of the Slalom Lake, the proposed plan shows 11 single family building lots and five mansion style multi-family building footprints. The proposal suggests that the mansion-style homes would be between 2-4 units each and within character of the MR-9 zoning district. No architectural designs or elevations have been submitted with this portion of the proposed PDO.

[site plan figure — no text] — Legible labels: "Anticipated Single-Family Area", "Anticipated Multi-Family Area", "SLALOM SKI", "ISLAND LOUNGE".
Figure 3 shows single family lots and multi-family footprints along the north shore of Slalom Ski Lake.

Project #25-041 Willow Lake PDO          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Aug 14th 2025
- 2 -


=== PDF page 9 ===

Assisted Living
Shown at the far east side of phase 5, and along the 1000 West Street frontage, the plan proposes a two-story 60-bed assisted living building. Access to the assisted living building is via the new 1100 South Street. The assisted living building is shown at lower heights and is somewhat separate from the other areas of phase 5 being located across the street and having no associated lake frontage.

[site plan figure — no text] — Legible label: "ASSISTED LIVING".
Figure 4 shows the assisted living building along 1000 West.

Planned Development Code Amendment
PDO's are intended for unique and specific projects that would not otherwise fit into regular zoning districts and are designed to provide flexibility and discretion to all parties involved in the process. Chapter 17.27 is the PDO Land Development Code (LDC) chapter, and if approved, new language specific to the proposed project will be adopted as part of the Council Ordinance for rezone and code amendment. The specific language adopted as part of the PDO and within LDC 17.27 will specify density, setbacks, heights, land use, open space, and parking. Also, similar to a development agreement, if any additional amenities or improvements are required as per the PDO process, they would be specified in the code amendment ordinance. Design Review of the proposed architectural will also be part of the ordinance adoption or it can be required subsequently based on underlining zone requirements.

The applicant has requested delayed design review for some portions of this project as they are still in the preparation phase. If any future changes to the project are proposed, an applicant would have to go back through the PDO process seeking an amendment to the approved PDO language.

Density, Site, and Building Design
The PDO is exclusive to the 12-acre phase 5 remainder parcels. Phase 1-4 are not included in the PDO application unless decision makers require amenities in those areas in exchange for PDO concessions in phase 5. The application is requesting up to 36 residential units (5 beach homes, 11 single family and up to 5 four-plex's). The fitness center and assisted living center is not calculated in the residential unit per acre density count, but rather is viewed as a structure and/or use similar to group treatment homes or hotels.

The proposal shows building heights capped at 43 feet tall. The fitness and assisted living building are shown at 43 feet tall and the homes and 4-plexes would sit at lower heights. Typical

Project #25-041 Willow Lake PDO          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Aug 14th 2025
- 3 -


=== PDF page 10 ===

height restrictions in the LDC are based on the mid-gable points in the roofline. The current height limitation in the NR-6 zone is 35'.

Building design is focused on what the applicant calls Lakehouse Style, Mountain Craftsman, and Mountain Modern. For the commercial and assisted living areas, architectural style is not considered with LDC requirements, rather a minimum amount of articulations, fenestrations and materials.

Parking Requirements
The LDC requires parking ratios for the following land uses. Assisted living at 1 stall per every 4 beds, fitness centers at 1 stall per every 500 SF, residential units at 2 stalls per one dwelling unit and short-term rentals at 1 stall per every two bedrooms. Based on the above categories, the fitness center would be required to provide 80 parking spaces, the assisted living would be required to provide 15 stalls, the multi-family residential units would be required to provide 40 parking spaces. Each new single-family home requires 2 parking stalls.

Pedestrian Circulation & Open Space
The proposed site layout shows standard sidewalks along public streets within phase 5 areas. There are no crosswalk enhancements or safe delineated sidewalks through the parking lot areas. The proposal does not show any trails or pathways that would allow people to use alternative transportation.

The proposed project narrative explains the overall Willow Lakes open space and conservation easement areas totaling 75 acres of easement area and 36 acres of open space in phase 1-4 (primarily the lake surfaces). The beachfront areas near the fitness center have been detailed in this proposal, but the remaining areas of phase 5 show little open space detail or trail connectivity to the bigger overall Willow Lakes open space areas.

Staff Summary
The PDO process allows for negotiations prior to ordinance adoption. Some of the desired improvements discussed are 1400 West Street extensions to 600 South and additional trail connections to areas along the river. The Planning Commission will need to determine whether the proposed architectural design descriptions in the CC&R's are enough to satisfy design review or require subsequent design review approvals by the Planning Commission for certain areas of the site.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
Comments were solicited from the following departments or agencies:
    • Environmental                    • Water
    • Light and Power                  • Engineering

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of this report, no comments have been received.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 8/16/25, posted on the City's website and the Utah Public Meeting website on 8/18/25, and mailed to property owners within 300 feet on 8/11/25.

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
This project is subject to the proponent or property owner agreeing to comply with the following conditions as written, or as may be amended by the Planning Commission.
    1.  All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Design Review and are available in the Community Development Department.

Project #25-041 Willow Lake PDO          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Aug 14th 2025
- 4 -


=== PDF page 11 ===

    2.  This PDO Code Amendment will include a new 40,000 SF club house and fitness center building shown on the west side of phase 5. The building will be 43 feet tall maximum and contain minimum commercial building articulations and ground floor transparency of 30% of the façade and upper floor transparency of 20%. Open space and landscaping in this area shall total 20% of the site with a minimum of 20 trees per acre. Parking lot setbacks will default to COM zoning at 10 feet along the street frontages and 5 feet along the sides and rear. Pedestrian connections from the street to the fitness center building and throughout the parking lot are required for safe and easy walking access. 80 parking stalls shall be provided on-site for this building.
    3.  The 5 beach homes will be in the same location as shown on the site plan and capped at 6,000 SF total per home. Short Term Rental regulations shall for Logan City's STR requirements for terms, business licensing, occupancy, parking, and inspections. 1 parking stall shall be provided per every two bedrooms.
    4.  The 11 single family home sites shall follow standard NR-6 setbacks, heights, driveway and parking requirements.
    5.  The Mansion Style building shall be four units maximum per building with a total of 5 buildings. A Design Review Permit will be required for these buildings and based on the MR-9 zone (or closest similar) for compliance with parking, open space, setbacks, and heights when the applicant is ready to develop this section. 2 parking stalls per each dwelling unit shall be provided on-site.
    6.  The assisted living building can be up to 43 feet tall and contain up to 60 beds. The building shall provide at least 15 parking spaces, and building design shall be compliant with MR-12 zoning. Pedestrian circulation shall be provided into and around this section of the project.
    7.  Phase 5 areas shall have trail connections made to area trail networks along the river to the south and points beyond.
    8.  1400 West Street shall be developed as per city specifications and extended north to intersect with 600 South with a cross section matching the city's neighborhood street classification.
    9.  Street trees and park strip landscaping shall be provided every 30 linear feet along all city streets within phase 5 and along 1400 West.
    10. No open pit storm-water detention basins shall be placed in the yard between the building and the adjoining streets. If designed as landscaping with maximum 4-to-1 cross slopes, undulating shapes, and ground cover containing 75% grass and a combination of trees and shrubbery so that it does not appear to be a storm water collection area, then it may be located in the front yard area.
    11. All dumpsters shall be visually screened or buffered from public streets by using fencing, walls and landscaping if placed near street edge.
    12. Rooftop mechanical and/or building wall mechanical equipment shall be placed out of view from the street or screen from view from the street.
    13. Exterior lighting, including gas canopy lighting, shall be concealed source, down-cast and shall not illuminate or cast light onto adjacent properties.
    14. No signs are approved with this Design Review Permit. All signage shall be approved and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    15. No fences are approved with this Design Review Permit. All fences shall be approved and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    16. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the Director of Community Development shall receive a written memorandum from each of the following departments or agencies indicating that their requirements have been satisfied:
    a. Environmental—contact 716-9760
        • Minimum 60 ft. straight on clear access required. The approach must be level, no down or uphill slopes and no parking spaces or curb blocking 60 ft. access.
        • Any collection point further than 150 feet from the public right of way must provide an on-site turn around. A minimum of 20-foot overhead clearance from building eves, parking awnings, trees, poles, overhead power, or cable wires, etc. is required.

Project #25-041 Willow Lake PDO          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Aug 14th 2025
- 5 -


=== PDF page 12 ===

        • Minimum inside measurement for a double enclosure is 24 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep. Minimum inside measurement for a single enclosure is 12 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
        • Place bollards in the back of the enclosure to protect walls.
        • Gates are not required, however if desired, they must be designed to stay open during the collection process.
        • Barrel hinges are suggested for the gates. We need a full 12 ft. clearance so the gates must be designed to open completely.
    b. Water—contact 716-9622
        • The buildings water service line/s needs to have a RP (ASSE1013) installed and tested on the water service line/s after the water meter, as it/they enter the building before any branch offs or possible connections inside or outside of building. [For best individual business's protection, the following is suggested- Each unit's water main would have its own RP (ASSE1013) installed and tested on the water main as it enters each unit/ building before any branch offs or possible connections inside or outside of building. So, each unit is independently controlled and protected.] Properly sized drain required to serve dump port of the RP's backflow assemblies. All backflow assemblies must be tested within 10 days of turning water into them and annually thereafter. Refer to current IPC Utah State Amendment # 608.1.1,608.1.2,608.1.2.1 for installation criteria. No open-ended water lines allowed, all future lines must be plugged or capped watertight.
        • All landscape irrigation system's fed from Logan City water must have a high hazard rated backflow assembly installed and tested within 10 days of turning in water to it.
        • Fire suppression systems that connect to Logan City water (with no added unapproved chemicals) must have a minimum DC (ASSE1015) installed and tested. Fire risers and all B/F assemblies must be installed and tested as per Logan City standards.
        • Project shall comply with all currently adopted plumbing codes and their amendments and Utah Admin. code R 309-105-12-(1) rules and regulations including, but not limited to, those pertaining to backflow prevention and cross connection protection, during and after construction, for the safety of the water source and its consumption.
        • Contact joseph.hawkes@loganutah.gov for a fire flow analysis in this area.
        • There is an additional 1" waterline stubbed to this property. If the line is not used it needs to be plugged at the main. Water Division recommends utilizing it as an irrigation meter to avoid having to dig in 1000 N and to reduce sewer collection and treatment costs on metered water.
    c. Engineering – contact 716-9160
        GENERAL
        • Water shares or in-lieu fee for indoor and outdoor increased water demands shall be provided to the City in accordance with City Code 17.29.210 and Utah Administrative Rule R309-510-7.
        • All adjacent and internal rights of way and easements shall be shown on the final plat and construction plans. Improvements of this project shall not infringe upon the rights of an existing easement / right of way / property owned by others without their written permission.
        • Documentation of existing and/or new easements or agreements for the proposed shared access condition and any other conditions such as shared access, parking, utilities, stormwater facilities (inside or outside of the project boundary) shall be provided with the construction plan / final plat submittal.
        • A Public Works Development Agreement and Financial Surety of at least 110% of the cost to construct all improvements in the City right-of-way and for all new storm water improvements shall be executed prior to approval of construction plans.
        • Provide a Geotechnical Report that includes but is not limited to: 1) Historical high ground water elevation, and 2) Percolation rate of soils at bottom of all unlined storm


=== PDF page 13 ===

        water holding facilities.  Groundwater has been a problem for adjacent development and has caused significant delays.  Making sure this is correct will ensure a smooth development process.
        • A "Preconstruction meeting" shall be held with the City's Engineering Division prior to starting construction activities and a "Work in the Right of Way" permit shall be obtained for all work in the City's right-of-way and PUE or for any tie-in to City utilities.
        • City right-of-way shall not be used for storage of construction materials or parking of construction equipment or related vehicles during construction.
        UTILITIES
        • All utilities outside of the public right-of-way way shall be private lines and shall be owned, maintained, repaired/replaced by the property owner.  All infrastructure shall be installed, maintained, and repaired/replaced in accordance with Logan City Standards.
        • A private Water Utility agreement shall be provided for all private water and sewer lines (including fire lines) not located within a Public Right of Way.  The agreement shall be executed prior to approval of construction plans and shall be recorded with the County Recorder.
        • Each individual building shall have separate water service and sewer service connection to the City's water and sewer systems.
        • Fire hydrants locations shall meet the Fire Code requirements as determined by the City's Fire Marshall.
        • All existing water and sewer service lines extending to the site that are not proposed to be used with the new development shall be capped at the City main line.  Currently the plan shows one water service not being used.  If it is not used it will need to be abandoned at the main.
        STORMWATER / IRRIGATION
        • Storm water detention/retention shall be designed and constructed according to Logan City standards.  This includes the retention of stormwater from any adjacent street that currently discharges to the property.  Retention of the 90% storm event is required and shall be provided using Low Impact design methods.
        • Stormwater can be discharged to the City's stormwater system after the 90th percentile storm has been collected for infiltration onsite and the remainder released at design rates.  If development encounters ground water and intends to install a footing/structural drainage system, this system will not be permitted to discharge to the City's stormwater system and will need to be managed separately.  Canal permission will be required to discharge this flow into a canal.
        • An executed Public Works Stormwater Maintenance Agreement shall be provided to the City prior to construction plan approval.  The agreement shall be recorded at the Cache County Recorder's Office.
        • Property is greater than 1 acre so compliance with the State Storm Water Permit is required.  Development shall also provide a sediment and erosion control plan for all construction activities.
        • This development is located in an area of moderate water table elevation (25 to 48 inches) and classified as having moderate liquefaction potential; given the potential groundwater elevation in the area, more than normal stormwater pond area may be required to maintain the pond elevation sufficiently above the historic high groundwater elevation.
        • Above ground and below ground stormwater facilities shall be designed to be a minimum 1 foot above the historic high groundwater elevation as determined by the geotechnical engineer.  Regardless of the design, stormwater facilities that are found to be constantly wet by groundwater will be required to complete a design revision that revises the facility to meet the  City's standard.
    d. Light and Power – contact 716-9722
        • A 1-Line Diagram
        • A Logan City Load Data Sheet Found on Logan Light & Power Website and email to angie.pacheco@loganutah.gov

Project #25-041 Willow Lake PDO          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Aug 14th 2025
- 7 -


=== PDF page 14 ===

        • A Digital Site Plan in AutoCAD (DWG) Format
        • PUE's Public Utility: 10' Easement on all property lines that face a roadway and 5' Easement on all other property lines.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL FOR THE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY
The Planning Commission bases its decisions on the following findings supported in the administrative record for this project:
    1.  The proposed project is compatible with surrounding land uses and will not interfere with the use and enjoyment of adjacent properties because of the setbacks, building design, site layout, materials, landscaping, and open space.
    2.  The Code Amendment and Rezone conform to the requirements of Title 17 of the Logan Municipal Code.
    3.  The proposed project provides adequate open space and useable outdoor space in conformance with Title 17.
    4.  The proposed project provides code compliant off-street parking.
    5.  The project meets the goals and objectives of the Logan General Plan by providing high-quality developments designed in way for easy circulation of both pedestrian and vehicles.
    6.  The proposed project complies with maximum height, density and building design standards and is in conformance with Title 17.
    7.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land Development Code and the Municipal Code.
    8.  1000 West and 1400 West provides access and are adequate in size and design to sufficiently handle all traffic modes and infrastructure related to the land use.

Project #25-041 Willow Lake PDO          Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of Aug 14th 2025
- 8 -


=== PDF page 15 ===

LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE / COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT [logo]

PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES
Meeting of August 14, 2025

Logan City Council Chambers (290 N 100 W Logan, UT 84321) www.loganutah.gov

Minutes of the meeting for the Logan City Planning Commission convened in regular session on Thursday, August 14, 2025. Commissioner Peterson called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Commissioners Present: Eldon Peterson, David Lewis, Ken Heare, Sarah McNamara

Commissioners Excused: Jennifer Duncan, Jessica Lucero, Sara Doutre

Staff Present: Russ Holley, Aimee Egbert, Mike DeSimone, Mohamed Abdullahi, Amanda Pearce, Darek Kimball, Jeannie Simmonds, Mike Johnson (City Council)


PC 25-041 Willow Lakes Phase 5 PDO [Planned Development Overlay] Brett Jensen/Willow Lakes Holdings LLC, authorized agent/owner is requesting a planned development overlay zone for the 12-acre Phase Five area of the Willow Lakes development to include a 40,000 square foot Fitness/Boat Club commercial building, five beachfront short term rental homes, eleven single family lots, five multi-family mansion style homes, and a 60-bed assisted living facility located at approximately 1100 South 1400 West in the Traditional Neighborhood Residential (NR-6) zone; TIN 02-245-9003; -9004; -9005, 02-314-9001 (Woodruff Neighborhood).

Staff: Russ Holley, Logan City Planner, reviewed the history of the Willow Lakes project, stating the project was originally approved five years ago. Since then, the project has undergone environmental reviews, and phases one through four have been platted for single-family development, with homes, public infrastructure, and artificial lakes now under construction.

The initial concept plan review was conducted at the Commission, Council, and Neighborhood level a year ago. Since then, the applicant has made some changes to the condominium portion of the original PDO concept review. Originally, there were 160 condominiums in 4-story structures, which have now been replaced with 11 single-family lots and 5 mansion-style structures with 4 units per structure.

The PDO proposal includes a new 40,000 square foot fitness/boat club Commercial Building, 5 beachfront homes intended for short-term rental, 11 single-family home building lots, 5 mansion-style multi-family structures, and a 60-bed assisted living two-story building.  The applicant has not submitted any design materials and will need to return to the Planning Commission for design review permits for the commercial building, short-term rentals, mansion-style multi-family structures, and assisted living building.

R. Holley reviewed an email received concerning the water being used to fill the lakes, and stated the lakes are being filled with groundwater, using water rights.

Proponent: Brett Jensen spoke about the commercial area being designed to provide public access. and asked the Commission if they had any questions.

Public: Gary Eskelson said he is concerned about the water that used to be located in this area, and asked if any of the wetlands will be brought back.

Planning Commission Minutes – August 14, 2025                    1 | Page


=== PDF page 16 ===

Josh Molitor said that 1000 West is not a safe location for an assisted living center and spoke about how this project is dangerous to the environment and should never have been built.

Dean Adams asked about the required parking of 1 stall for every two bedrooms and spoke about the groundwater lakes that were installed by the fairgrounds, which resulted in algae, odor, and mosquitoes.

Lance Parker, who owns property to the north, said he does not have a problem with the Willow Lakes development and what is being proposed.

Grant Potter, who owns land to the west, spoke about the traffic problem in this area and asked if 600 South would be widened and if there will be a traffic light installed.  Mr. Potter also mentioned concerns with Willow Lakes pumping out all the groundwater and drying up his existing well.

Commission: Commissioner Peterson asked about adding more details to Conditions 7 and 8 regarding trail connections and traffic calming measures along 1400 West.  Mike DeSimone stated that these conditions should be tied to a section of the phase 5 permitting.

Commissioner Heare stated that additional traffic lights on 1000 West need to be lobbied with the State Legislature and UDOT.

Commissioner Lewis stated that 600 South is planned to be widened.  R. Holley confirmed this and said that 600 South is a planned Collector Street.

The Commission discussed and determined that Conditions 2, 5, and 6 need to be amended to require that those specific items return to the Planning Commission for a Design Review Permit.

Brett Jensen asked that the short-term rentals not have to come back for design review because they will not be building them, and the buildings will have to follow the design guidelines they have set for the entire development.

R. Holley stated that single-family homes would not have to get a design review permit.  The PDO can clarify the short-term rental regulations and they would still be required to obtain a business license and the necessary inspections.  Mike DeSimone stated that if the use of the five STR buildings change from short term rentals, they would have to come back to the Planning Commission for a code amendment.

The Commission added to Condition number 3 that any changes in use are required to return to the Planning Commission.

Brett Nelson asked for a 5-foot side setback for the five short-term rentals. And a 20-foot front setback as the front faces a parking lot

The Commission added a 5-foot side setback and a minimum 20-foot front setback to Condition number 3.

The Commission added to condition number 7 that trail connectivity is required to be shown with the commercial design review permit.

The Commission added to condition number 8 that traffic calming measures are required to be shown with the commercial design review permit.

Planning Commission Minutes – August 14, 2025                    2 | Page


=== PDF page 17 ===

MOTION: Commissioner Heare made a motion to forward a recommendation of approval to the Municipal Council for a code amendment on PC 25-041 with the amended conditions of approval as discussed and the findings for approval as listed below. Commissioner McNamara seconded the motion.  The motion was approved unanimously.

AMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
    1.  All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Design Review and are available in the Community Development Department.
    2.  This PDO Code Amendment will include a new 40,000 SF clubhouse and fitness center building shown on the west side of phase 5. The building will be 43 feet tall maximum and contain minimum commercial building articulations and ground floor transparency of 30% of the façade and upper floor transparency of 20%. Open space and landscaping in this area shall total 20% of the site with a minimum of 20 trees per acre. Parking lot setbacks will default to COM zoning at 10 feet along the street frontages and 5 feet along the sides and rear. Pedestrian connections from the street to the fitness center building and throughout the parking lot are required for safe and easy walking access. 80 parking stalls shall be provided on-site for this building.  The Commercial building must return to the Planning Commission for a Design Review Permit.
    3.  The 5 beach homes will be in the same location as shown on the site plan and capped at 6,000 SF total per home, with 5-foot side setbacks and a minimum 20-foot front setbacks. Short Term Rental regulations shall for follow Logan City's STR requirements for terms, business licensing, occupancy, parking, and inspections. 1 parking stall shall be provided per every two bedrooms, any change in use would be required to come back to the Planning Commission for a code amendment.
    4.  The 11 single family home sites shall follow standard NR-6 setbacks, heights, driveway and parking requirements.
    5.  The Mansion Style building shall be four units maximum per building with a total of 5 buildings. A Design Review Permit will be required for these buildings and based on the MR-9 zone (or closest similar) for compliance with parking, open space, setbacks, and heights when the applicant is ready to develop this section. 2 parking stalls per each dwelling unit shall be provided on-site.  The multi-family mansion-style buildings must return to the Planning Commission for a Design Review Permit.
    6.  The assisted living building can be up to 43 feet tall and contain up to 60 beds. The building shall provide at least 15 parking spaces, and building design shall be compliant with MR-12 zoning. Pedestrian circulation shall be provided into and around this section of the project.  The assisted living building must return to Planning Commission for a Design Review Permit.
    7.  Phase 5 areas shall have trail connections made to area trail networks along the river to the south and points beyond.  Trail connections will need to be provided with the commercial building Design Review Permit.
    8.  1400 West Street shall be developed as per city specifications and extended north to intersect with 600 South with a cross section matching the city's neighborhood street classification. 1400 West Street traffic calming measures will need to be shown with the commercial building Design Review Permit.
    9.  Street trees and park strip landscaping shall be provided every 30 linear feet along all city streets within phase 5 and along 1400 West.
    10. No open pit storm-water detention basins shall be placed in the yard between the building and the adjoining streets. If designed as landscaping with maximum 4-to-1 cross slopes, undulating shapes, and ground cover containing 75% grass and a combination of trees and

Planning Commission Minutes – August 14, 2025                    3 | Page


=== PDF page 18 ===

        shrubbery so that it does not appear to be a storm water collection area, then it may be located in the front yard area.
    11. All dumpsters shall be visually screened or buffered from public streets by using fencing, walls and landscaping if placed near street edge.
    12. Rooftop mechanical and/or building wall mechanical equipment shall be placed out of view from the street or screen from view from the street.
    13. Exterior lighting, including gas canopy lighting, shall be concealed source, down-cast and shall not illuminate or cast light onto adjacent properties.
    14. No signs are approved with this Design Review Permit. All signage shall be approved and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    15. No fences are approved with this Design Review Permit. All fences shall be approved and permitted by staff in accordance with the Land Development Code.
    16. Prior to issuance of a Building Permit, the Director of Community Development shall receive a written memorandum from each of the following departments or agencies indicating that their requirements have been satisfied:
        a. Environmental—contact 716-9760
            1.  Minimum 60 ft. straight on clear access required. The approach must be level, no down or uphill slopes and no parking spaces or curb blocking 60 ft. access.
            2.  Any collection point further than 150 feet from the public right of way must provide an on-site turn around. A minimum of 20-foot overhead clearance from building eves, parking awnings, trees, poles, overhead power, or cable wires, etc. is required.
            3.  Minimum inside measurement for a double enclosure is 24 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep. Minimum inside measurement for a single enclosure is 12 ft. wide by 10 ft. deep.
            4.  Place bollards in the back of the enclosure to protect walls.
            5.  Gates are not required, however if desired, they must be designed to stay open during the collection process.
            6.  Barrel hinges are suggested for the gates. We need a full 12 ft. clearance so the gates must be designed to open completely.
        b. Water—contact 716-9622
            1.  The buildings water service line/s needs to have a RP (ASSE1013) installed and tested on the water service line/s after the water meter, as it/they enter the building before any branch offs or possible connections inside or outside of building.  [For best individual business's protection, the following is suggested- Each unit's water main would have its own RP (ASSE1013) installed and tested on the water main as it enters each unit/ building before any branch offs or possible connections inside or outside of building. So, each unit is independently controlled and protected.] Properly sized drain required to serve dump port of the RP's backflow assemblies. All backflow assemblies must be tested within 10 days of turning water into them and annually thereafter. Refer to current IPC Utah State Amendment # 608.1.1,608.1.2,608.1.2.1 for installation criteria. No open-ended water lines allowed, all future lines must be plugged or capped watertight.
            2.  All landscape irrigation system's fed from Logan City water must have a high hazard rated backflow assembly installed and tested within 10 days of turning in water to it.
            3.  Fire suppression systems that connect to Logan City water (with no added unapproved chemicals) must have a minimum DC (ASSE1015) installed and tested. Fire risers and all B/F assemblies must be installed and tested as per Logan City standards.
            4.  Project shall comply with all currently adopted plumbing codes and their amendments and Utah Admin. code R 309-105-12-(1) rules and regulations including, but not limited to, those pertaining to backflow prevention and cross connection protection, during and after construction, for the safety of the water source and its consumption.
            5.  Contact joseph.hawkes@loganutah.gov for a fire flow analysis in this area.

Planning Commission Minutes – August 14, 2025                    4 | Page


=== PDF page 19 ===

            6.  There is an additional 1" waterline stubbed to this property. If the line is not used it needs to be plugged at the main. Water Division recommends utilizing it as an irrigation meter to avoid having to dig in 1000 N and to reduce sewer collection and treatment costs on metered water.
        c. Engineering – contact 716-9160
            GENERAL
            1.  Water shares or in-lieu fee for indoor and outdoor increased water demands shall be provided to the City in accordance with City Code 17.29.210 and Utah Administrative Rule R309-510-7.
            2.  All adjacent and internal rights of way and easements shall be shown on the final plat and construction plans. Improvements of this project shall not infringe upon the rights of an existing easement / right of way / property owned by others without their written permission.
            3.  Documentation of existing and/or new easements or agreements for the proposed shared access condition and any other conditions such as shared access, parking, utilities, stormwater facilities (inside or outside of the project boundary) shall be provided with the construction plan / final plat submittal.
            4.  A Public Works Development Agreement and Financial Surety of at least 110% of the cost to construct all improvements in the City right-of-way and for all new storm water improvements shall be executed prior to approval of construction plans.
            5.  Provide a Geotechnical Report that includes but is not limited to: 1) Historical high ground water elevation, and 2) Percolation rate of soils at bottom of all unlined storm water holding facilities.  Groundwater has been a problem for adjacent development and has caused significant delays.  Making sure this is correct will ensure a smooth development process.
            6.  A "Preconstruction meeting" shall be held with the City's Engineering Division prior to starting construction activities and a "Work in the Right of Way" permit shall be obtained for all work in the City's right-of-way and PUE or for any tie-in to City utilities.
            7.  City right-of-way shall not be used for storage of construction materials or parking of construction equipment or related vehicles during construction.
            UTILITIES
            8.  All utilities outside of the public right-of-way way shall be private lines and shall be owned, maintained, repaired/replaced by the property owner.  All infrastructure shall be installed, maintained, and repaired/replaced in accordance with Logan City Standards.
            9.  A private Water Utility agreement shall be provided for all private water and sewer lines (including fire lines) not located within a Public Right of Way.  The agreement shall be executed prior to approval of construction plans and shall be recorded with the County Recorder.
            10. Each individual building shall have separate water service and sewer service connection to the City's water and sewer systems.
            11. Fire hydrants locations shall meet the Fire Code requirements as determined by the City's Fire Marshall.
            12. All existing water and sewer service lines extending to the site that are not proposed to be used with the new development shall be capped at the City main line.  Currently the plan shows one water service not being used.  If it is not used it will need to be abandoned at the main.
            STORMWATER / IRRIGATION
            13. Storm water detention/retention shall be designed and constructed according to Logan City standards.  This includes the retention of stormwater from any adjacent street that currently discharges to the property.  Retention of the 90% storm event is required and shall be provided using Low Impact design methods.
            14. Stormwater can be discharged to the City's stormwater system after the 90th percentile storm has been collected for infiltration onsite and the remainder released at design rates.

Planning Commission Minutes – August 14, 2025                    5 | Page
[Part 2/2 — PDF pages 20–38]

--- Page 20 ---

If development encounters ground water and intends to install a footing/structural drainage
system, this system will not be permitted to discharge to the City's stormwater system and
will need to be managed separately.  Canal permission will be required to discharge this
flow into a canal.
15. An executed Public Works Stormwater Maintenance Agreement shall be provided to the
City prior to construction plan approval.  The agreement shall be recorded at the Cache
County Recorder's Office.
16. Property is greater than 1 acre so compliance with the State Storm Water Permit is
required.  Development shall also provide a sediment and erosion control plan for all
construction activities.
17. This development is located in an area of moderate water table elevation (25 to 48 inches)
and classified as having moderate liquefaction potential; given the potential groundwater
elevation in the area, more than normal stormwater pond area may be required to maintain
the pond elevation sufficiently above the historic high groundwater elevation.
18. Above ground and below ground stormwater facilities shall be designed to be a minimum 1
foot above the historic high groundwater elevation as determined by the geotechnical
engineer.  Regardless of the design, stormwater facilities that are found to be constantly
wet by groundwater will be required to complete a design revision that revises the facility to
meet the  City's standard.
   d. Light and Power – contact 716-9722
      1.  A 1-Line Diagram
      2.  A Logan City Load Data Sheet Found on Logan Light & Power Website and email to
          angie.pacheco@loganutah.gov
      3.  A Digital Site Plan in AutoCAD (DWG) Format
      4.  PUE's Public Utility: 10' Easement on all property lines that face a roadway and 5'
          Easement on all other property lines.

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1.  The proposed project is compatible with surrounding land uses and will not interfere with the
    use and enjoyment of adjacent properties because of the setbacks, building design, site layout,
    materials, landscaping, and open space.
2.  The Code Amendment and Rezone conform to the requirements of Title 17 of the Logan
    Municipal Code.
3.  The proposed project provides adequate open space and useable outdoor space in
    conformance with Title 17.
4.  The proposed project provides code compliant off-street parking.
5.  The project meets the goals and objectives of the Logan General Plan by providing high-quality
    developments designed for easy circulation of both pedestrian and vehicles.
6.  The proposed project complies with maximum height, density and building design standards
    and is in conformance with Title 17.
7.  The project met the minimum public noticing requirements of the Land Development Code and
    the Municipal Code.
8.  1000 West and 1400 West provides access and are adequate in size and design to sufficiently
    handle all traffic modes and infrastructure related to the land use.

Moved: K. Heare          Second: S. McNamara          Approved: 4-0

Yea: Heare, Peterson, Lewis, McNamara      Nay:          Abstain:

Planning Commission Minutes – August 14, 2025                                    6 | P a g e

--- Page 21 ---

[illegible page 21 — blank page bearing only a faint "DRAFT" watermark]
Footer: Planning Commission Minutes – August 14, 2025          7 | P a g e

--- Page 22 ---

[Presentation title slide]
LOGAN CITY UNITED IN SERVICE [logo]
ORD# 25-16
Willow Lakes Phase 5
Planned Development
Overlay

--- Page 23 ---

[map/plat page 23 — no text; aerial photo with street labels]
Labels: 2000 West; 1400 West; 1100 South; 1000 West; 1000 West; 600 South; Logan River; HWY 89-91

--- Page 24 ---

[map/plat page 24 — no text; aerial zoning map]
Title: 2025 Zoning Map
Labels: NR-6; NR-4; NR-4; NR-6; NR-6; NR-6; NR-6; REC; REC; IP; IP; MR-12; OUTSIDE OF LOGAN CITY BOUNDARY (x3)

--- Page 25 ---

[map/plat page 25 — no text; Future Land Use Map, rotated]
Title: Future Land Use Map (FLUP)
Labels: DR-DX; DR; DR-DX; DR; DR; DR; REC; REC; MR; IP; REC; and street labels (1580 W, 1500 W, KC LN, 600 S, 1400 W, 1360 W, 900 S, 800 S, 1250 W, 1330 W, 1150 W, 1600 S, 900 W, 1000 S, 1100 S, 890 S, 830 S, 530 S, PARK AVE, 670 W, 720 S, 600 S, 500 W, SOUTHWEST, TRAIL CIR)

--- Page 26 ---

[map/plat page 26 — no text; aerial photo with area callouts]
Labels: East Area; Central Area; West Area; Logan City GIS; -111.874, 41.712 Degrees

--- Page 27 ---

RECOMMENDATIONS
[map: "FLUP Update" — Detached Residential; Commercial Multi-family Nodes; Woodruff FLUP Update legend]
Map F.8 - Proposed FLUP Update                                                    119
Woodruff Neighborhood Plan (2021)

FLUP Update Summary
•  Boundary line with Nibley is likely to change.
Detached Residential
•  490 acres.
•  Approx. 1,200 - 1,500 new units.
•  Density approx. 2.5 - 3 units per acre.
Mixed Residential
•  75 acres.
•  Approx. 500 - 750 new units.
•  Approx. 7 – 10 units per acre.
•  Located near commercial nodes (1,400' radius from intersections).
•  Not located on properties that front Highway.
Commercial
•  60 acres.
•  South Corridor Plan and Gateway Overlay 700' radius around intersections.
Rural Reserve Area
•  72 acres.
•  Area between nodes.

--- Page 28 ---

[map/plat page 28 — no text; scenic photograph of a lake with mountains (rotated)]

--- Page 29 ---

[map/plat page 29 — no text; phasing site plan/plat with lot layout]
Includes a "PHASING NARRATIVE:" text block (illegible at this resolution) and a LEGEND: PHASE 1 (green dash); PHASE 2 (pink dash); PHASE 3 (blue dash); PHASE 4 (red dash); PHASE 5 (orange dash).
Labels: PHASE 1; PHASE 2; PHASE 3; PHASE 4; 1100 SOUTH; 1400 WEST; 1000 WEST ST; SLALOM CIRCLE; WILLOW LAKES RIDGE; FLOOD PLAIN BOUNDARY; DELINEATED WETLANDS; NO IMPROVEMENTS

--- Page 30 ---

[map/plat page 30 — no text; colored master plan rendering]
Caption: Willow Lakes Master Plan (Phase 5 not approved)
Labels: Phase 1; Phase 2; Phase 3; Phase 4; Phase 5; 1400 West; 1000 West; 1000 West; 1100 South; BIG WAKE & TUBE; BEACH AREA; SLALOM SKI; NO WAKE PADDLE AREA; RIVER / FOREST PRESERVE; RIVER / NATURE PRESERVE; TRAPPER PARK; LOGAN RIVER; LITTLE LOGAN RIVER RESTORATION; Anticipated Single-Family Area; Anticipated Multi-Family Area

--- Page 31 ---

[map/plat page 31 — no text; colored site rendering]
Caption: Phase 5 – PDO Overlay Area
Labels: Phase 5 area (~12 acres); 1; 2; 3; 4; 5; BEACH AREA; SLALOM SKI; NO WAKE PADDLE AREA; SURF WAVE; ISLAND LOUNGE; Anticipated Single-Family Area; Anticipated Multi-Family Area

--- Page 32 ---

[map/plat page 32 — no text; colored site plan rendering]
Caption: 1 – Boat House, Clubhouse, Fitness Spa
Labels: CLUBHOUSE; FITNESS SPA; OBSERVATION DECK; BOAT HOUSE; BOAT RAMP; FOOD PATIO; BEACH HOMES; BEACH AREA; SURF WAVE; SWIM

--- Page 33 ---

[map/plat page 33 — no text; black-and-white architectural elevation/perspective drawing of a building]

--- Page 34 ---

[map/plat page 34 — no text; colored site plan rendering]
Labels: FOOD PATIO; BEACH HOMES; BEACH AREA; BRIDGE

--- Page 35 ---

[map/plat page 35 — no text; black-and-white architectural perspective drawing of a building (rotated)]

--- Page 36 ---

[map/plat page 36 — no text; colored site plan rendering]
Labels: Anticipated Single-Family Area; Anticipated Multi-Family Area; SLALOM SKI; NO WAKE PADDLE AREA; ISLAND LOUNGE

--- Page 37 ---

[map/plat page 37 — no text; colored site plan rendering]
Labels: ASSISTED LIVING; 1000 West

--- Page 38 ---

[map/plat page 38 — no text; black-and-white architectural elevation drawing of a multi-story building]
