                                  CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 26-11



    AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17 THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF
                                       LOGAN CITY, UTAH

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LOGAN, UTAH AS
FOLLOWS:


SECTION 1: That certain map or maps entitled "Official Zoning Map of Logan City, Utah" is hereby
amended and the following properties in the Adams Neighborhood and as specifically identified in Exhibit
A, as attached, are hereby zoned from Commercial (COM) to Mixed Use (MU).

SECTION 2: This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

ADOPTED BY THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL THIS                                  DAY OF              , 2026.


             Dahle, Melissa            ( ) Aye   ( ) Nay     ( ) Abstained    ( ) Excused
             Johnson, Mike             ( ) Aye   O Nay       ( ) Abstained    ( ) Excused
             Koven, Katie-Lee          ( ) Aye   ( ) Nay     ( ) Abstained    ( ) Excused
             Lopez, Ernesto            ( ) Aye   ( ) Nay     ( ) Abstained    ( ) Excused
             Simmonds, Jeannie F.      ( ) Aye   ( ) Nay     ( ) Abstained    ( ) Excused


                                                           Mike Johnson, Chair
ATTEST:




  Teresa Harris, City Recorder


                                 PRESENTATION TO MAYOR


   The foregoing ordinance was presented by the Logan Municipal Council to the Mayor for
approval or disapproval on the   day of                  , 2026.



                                                              Mike Johnson, Chair


                        MAYOR'S APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL


   The foregoing ordinance is hereby                         this      day of                    , 2026.




                                                            Mark A. Anderson, Mayor
                                                EXHIBIT A


                                                Old Mann Rezone
                                                                                                            --       1
                                                185 E Cache Valley Blvd.



                     gjjj.j.•Ji.,                                      . 'j
     •                            J ' - I • l ^ i 4 . '•. -             i/ay.1 ,'                       .                'J
                 -                                                       err            -
                             s.




    ".


                                                  t       ,
         '              ..                niF         _                             1?CU °' rt c1.Fata.t-            __            . ..



-                                  - - - - :••.                        .tea, . tJ
                                                                               .                                 .                   _
     ,r      r
                     -.
                     r
                        ;:          --                        i       - Proposed Rezone: MU                                    3..


                                                                  :   - r                           -
                                                                  r                                                           -,
                                          --
                                                                                                                                          7)
                                         Proposed Zoning                                       May 28,2026
                                                                e   1


                                  L€XiXN   L I f 1 L ".i   Ev IN SERVICE




                    MEMORANDUM TO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL

DATE:           June 4, 2026
FROM:           Aimee Egbert, Planner II
SUBJECT:        Ordinance #26-11 Old Mann Rezone




Summary of Planning Commission Proceedings
Project Name:                              Old Mann Rezone
Request:                                   Zoning Map Amendment
Project Address:                           185 East Cache Valley Blvd.
Recommendation of the Planning Commission: Approval

On May 28th, 2026, the Planning Commission recommended approval to the Municipal Council for
the Old Mann rezone to Mixed Use (MU) as proposed by the applicant.

Motion to Recommend Approval: K. Heare
Second: J. Lucero
Planning Commissioners vote to recommend approval (5-0): Lewis, Lucero, Heare, Doutre,
Maughan
Nay: none
Abstain: none


Attachments
Meeting Minutes
Ordinance #26-11
Staff Report
Slides
PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES


Meeting of May 28, 2026
Logan City Council Chambers (290 N 100W Logan, UT 84321) www.loganutah.org

Minutes of the meeting for the Logan City Planning Commission convened in regular session on
Thursday, May 28, 2026. Commissioner Peterson called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Commissioners Present: David Lewis, Jessica Lucero, Sara Doutre, Ken Heare, Craig Maughan

Commissioners Excused: Sarah McNamara, Jennifer Duncan

Staff Present: Russ Holley, Aimee Egbert, Aaron Smith, Mohamed Abdullahi, Amanda Pearce, Darek
Kimball, Jeannie Simmonds (City Council)

PUBLIC HEARING:

PC 26-021 Old Mann Project Rezone [Zone Change & Conditional Use] Tony Johnson/Alliance
Acquisitions LLC, authorized agent/owner, is requesting a zone change for a 1.76-acre property
located at 185 East Cache Valley Blvd. from Commercial (COM) to Mixed Use (MU) and a Conditional
Use Permit to allow a full-service bar. (TIN 05-014-0077), within the Adams Neighborhood.

Staff: Aimee Egbert, Planner, reviewed the request for a zone change and Conditional Use Permit
(CUP) to allow a full-service bar. A. Egbert explained that full-service bars, which are restricted to
patrons 21 and older, are currently permitted only in the Town Center One (TC-1) Zone and are
conditionally permitted in the Town Center Two (TC-2) and Mixed Use (MU) zones. The applicant is
requesting MU zoning to support a live-work-play environment and noted that there are currently no
bars located in this area of the city.

A. Egbert explained that the applicant received a Design Review approval in 2023 for an addition to
the building. That approval, as well as a prior permit, required landscaping to be installed and
maintained on the site. Since that time, a substantial portion of the required landscaping has been
removed and converted to additional parking. As part of the current application, the site must provide
at least 10 percent landscaping and 10 percent usable outdoor space in accordance with the Land
Development Code (LDC). Interior parking lot landscaping is also required because the LDC does not
permit more than 20 parking stalls in a continuous row without a landscaped planter break. Park strips
do not count toward the landscaping requirement. All landscaping required under previous approvals
and shown on the approved site plans must be restored and maintained in compliance with current
LDC standards.


A. Egbert noted that Condition number five could be amended to remove the required 10-foot front
parking setback and associated landscaping requirement due to the existing retaining wall along the
south property line.

A. Egbert further explained that the east property line is required to provide a minimum five-foot
landscaped border with plant materials covering at least 50 percent of the border area.

If the rezone is approved, the Commission must also determine whether the proposed full-service bar
can operate in a manner that is compatible with surrounding uses. The site meets the required
separation distances and is located within a predominantly commercial area; however, nearby
approved residential development may be affected by outdoor patios, amplified music, and late-night
operating hours. The Commission should consider whether conditions addressing these issues are
necessary as part of the CUP.
Commissioner Doutre commented that a mixed-use project generally includes housing, which this
proposal does not. Russ Holley, Community Development Director, explained that new mixed-use
developments are required to provide a minimum density of five dwelling units. However, because the
existing building predates the zoning change, it would become a legally existing nonconforming
structure if rezoned to MU. Mohamed Abdullahi, Logan City Attorney, clarified that a nonconforming
structure could not be expanded unless it was brought into compliance with all applicable Mixed Use
zone requirements.

Proponent: Tony Johnson addressed the Commission and stated that the proposal aligns with the
adjacent mixed-use development to the north. He also discussed the shared parking agreement with
the University Stadium Theater property to the south and noted that a portion of the site's landscaping
had been removed as part of the City's 1200 North realignment project.

Commissioner Maughan asked whether the Land Development Code distinguishes between a
restaurant with a bar and a full-service bar.

Aaron Smith, Planner, explained that restaurants with full-service alcohol licenses are permitted in all
zones where restaurants are allowed. A full-service bar, however, is a conditional use in the Mixed-
Use zone. He noted that state regulations require restaurants with alcohol licenses to derive at least
70 percent of their sales from food and that restaurants are not subject to age restrictions. In contrast,
bars are restricted to patrons age 21 and older and are not required to meet any minimum food sales
threshold.

Dan Hansen discussed planned renovations to the building, the food service that would be offered,
and a transportation service intended to provide rides to and from the establishment.

Mario Trejo stated that the business would not be able to meet the 70 percent food sales requirement
necessary for a restaurant alcohol license. He also noted that the proposed operating hours would
help distribute parking demand to evening hours when additional parking is available.

Public: No public comments were made.

Commission: Commissioner Lucero stated that she supports the requested zone change because it
is consistent with the adjacent mixed-use development.

Commissioner Doutre stated that a zone change should not be used solely as a means to obtain a
Conditional Use Permit. Commissioner Maughan stated that the area is transitioning toward mixed-
use development and that, if the existing building were demolished, he would be comfortablewith the
type of development allowed under the Mixed-Use zone. Commissioner Heare agreed and stated that
a variety of mixed-use developments would be appropriate at this corner location.

The Commission discussed continuing the Conditional Use Permit request to allow the applicant
additional time to submit an alternative parking plan and proposed hours of operation.

R. Holley explained that staff may administratively approve an alternative parking plan with up to a 15
percent reduction in required parking. Any reduction exceeding 15 percent would require review and
approval by the Planning Commission.

MOTION: Commissioner Heare made a motion to approve a conditional use permit and forward a
recommendation of approval to the Municipal Council on a zone change for PC 26-021 with the
conditions of approval and findings for approval as listed below. Commissioner Lucero seconded the
motion. The motion was approved unanimously.

AMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL (Conditional Use Permit)
1. All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Conditional Use Permit and are
   available in the Community Development Department.
2. This Conditional Use Permit authorizes one (1) Bar to operate at 185 E Cache Valley Blvd. subject
   to approval and compliance with Utah DABS and Logan City Business License regulations and
   requirements.
3. Business shall observe Logan City's noise ordinance.
4. Prior to the issuance of a Business License, the applicant shall construct landscape and usable
   outdoor space as per LDC square footage, setbacks, and buffers along with the required amount
   of parking stalls.
5. Front parking lot setbacks (south side) shall be 10 feet from property line and shall meet LDC
   17.-32-w0.B requirements foreither Type C or D separation. Side setbacks shall be 5 feet from
   property line and landscaped with plant material covering a minimum of 50% of the border
     surface.
6.   Interior parking lot landscaping shall be provided so that no more than 20 parking stalls are
   located in a continuous row without a landscaped planter area.
7. An alternative parking plan shall be submitted to the Community Development Director for
   approval.

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL
1. The subject property is located in an area that includes both Commercial (COM) and Mixed Use
   (MU) zoning designations. Rezoning the property to MU would extend the existing MU zoning
   pattern and would be consistent with the mixed-use character of nearby development.
2. The MU zoning designation is appropriate for the site due to its proximity to alternative
   transportation modes, infrastructure, commercial services, and employment opportunities.
3. Existing land uses in the surrounding area are predominantly commercial in nature.
4. The proposed rezoning is not anticipated to result in adverse impacts to adjacent properties, as
   any future development will be required to comply with applicable zoning regulations and undergo
     Design Review.
5. The proposed rezoning is consistent with the goals and policies of the Logan City General Plan,
   which encourage mixed-use development in areas with access to services, employment, and
     transportation options.
6.   The requested rezoning supports orderly growth and represents a logical continuation of existing
     MU zoning within the area.


 Moved: K. Heare                     Second: J. Lucero                   Approved: 5-0

 Yea: Lucero, Maughan, Doutre, Lewis, Heare                  Nay:                    Abstain:
LOGAN                                                    Project #26-021
                                                   Old Mann Project Rezone
                               - -
                                             Located at 185 East Cache Valley Blvd.

REPORT SUMMARY...
Project Name:                                       Old Mann Project Rezone
Proponent/Owner.                                    Tony Johnson / Alliance Acquisitions, LLC
Project Address:                                    185 East Cache Valley Blvd.
Request:                                            Rezone from COM to MU; Conditional Use Permit (CUP)
Current Zoning:                                     Commercial (COM)
Date of Hearing:                                    May 28, 2026
Type of Action:                                     Legislative
Submitted By:                                       Aimee Egbert, Planner II

RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a recommendation of approval to the
Municipal Council for a rezone of the approximately 1.76 acre property and a conditional
approval for a CUP at the property located at 185 East Cache Valley Blvd. (TIN# 05-014-0077)
from Commercial (COM) to Mixed Use (MU).

Land use adjoining the subject property
North:            COM: Commercial/Residential                  East:          COM: Commercial Uses
                  Uses; under development
South:            COM: Commercial Uses                         West:          COM: Commercial/Residential Uses;
                                                                              under development

PROJECT
The applicant has requested this rezone to allow a
bar. Full-service bars are currently permitted only in




GENERAL PLAN                                                               I __ _
the Town Center-1 (TC-1) and conditionally
permitted in Town Center-2 (TC-2) and Mixed Use
(MU) zones, with most such establishments located
in the downtown area. The applicant has stated that
the request is also intended to align with the ongoing
redevelopment of the Cache Valley Marketplace
area. The MU zone is intended to accommodate a
combination              of          residential,    commercial,   and
entertainment uses in a "live, work, play" setting.


The Future Land Use Plan (FLUP), adopted in 2026,
identifies this property as Commercial (COM) in a      Figure 1: Subject property at 790 & 796 South Main
block that is COM with MU along Main Street and
1400 North. The General Plan, a nonregulatory visioning plan, describes COM zones as being
intended for retail, service and hospitality businesses that provide employment centers and
serve city-wide and regional populations. Most COM zone designations inside Logan City are
located near the Main Street/Highway corridor north and south of downtown.

The MU designation in the General Plan is described as having high concentrations of
commercial and residential uses. Structures would typically be multi-story with projects laid out
in a compact urban fashion that allows residents to work, play and live all within a walkable
center. The MU designation can be applied to encourage redevelopment with more residential
opportunities.
I', jccl X26-11?I OI(! Atxnn I'c,, ct ICc , nc                         Stab(Itcpnrt for th   l:ummis,i,,n mcctin,. nl AI;tv 28''',2I)?G
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
The applicant is requesting a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) to allow a full-service bar, which is
conditionally permitted in the MU zone but is not permitted in the current COM zone. The
purpose of the CUP is to allow the Planning Commission to impose conditions to mitigate
potential impacts such as noise, late-night activity, and compatibility with surrounding land uses.
The CUP process for full-service bars in MU zones is also intended to provide flexibility in more
urbanized, higher-density environments, where proximity to residential uses is expected and
can be appropriate when carefully managed to balance neighborhood livability with active
ground-floor uses. The proposed location is surrounded by commercial development and meets
the required separation distances of 350 feet from other bars and 600 feet from community
locations such as churches, schools, and parks. Staff has identified potential concerns related to
outdoor patios, amplified music, and operating hours, particularly given nearby approved
residential development. The Planning Commission should consider whether conditions
addressing these issues, along with any other appropriate
conditions, are necessary to minimize potential conflicts         q    _ _
with adjacent uses.

Landscaping & Parking Setbacks
In 2023, the applicant obtained a Design Review Permit
for an addition to the building. That approval, along with a                         r
prior permit, required installation and maintenance of
landscaping on the site. Since then, a substantial portion                                                          ..
of the required landscaping has been removed and
converted to additional parking. The site plan submitted
with this application includes a revised layout for parking,                                      -.=
landscaping, and usable outdoor space. As part of this
approval, the applicant is required to provide at least 10%
landscaping and 10% usable outdoor space, consistent
with the requirements of the Land Development Code                                                                           - ation
(LDC). Interior parking lot landscaping is also required, as         r                      ---   -
the LDC does not allow more than 20 parking stalls in a
continuous row without a landscaped planter break. Note
that park strips are not counted towards the landscaping                       '='                J
totals. All landscaping required under previous approvals
and shown on the approved site plan shall be restored and
maintained in compliance with current LDC standards.
                                                                  Figure 3 shows the 2019 submitted landscape plan
The LDC also requires a minimum five-foot setback                        ,, ..                    -      _               -
between parking areas and property lines, with the setback                                                                               i
area used for perimeter landscaping. Along the south (front)                                                                         i
property line, the landscaped setback shall comply with the
Type C or Type D landscaping border standards in LDC                           r_-„_ _I'
Section 17.32.080.6. Along the east side property line, a
minimum five-foot landscaped border shall be provided,                                                                           {
with plant materials covering at least 50 percent of the
border surface area.                                                       l                                                 i
SUMMARY                                                                                               -.-------- -,
The Planning Commission is being asked to consider both
a rezone from COM to MU and a CUP for a full-service
                                                         bar.       Figure a shows the 2023 submitted concept plan.
The primary policy question is whether the MU zone is
appropriate for this property, given that the FLUP designates the site as Commercial. The
adjacent Cache Valley Marketplace property is zoned Commercial but is governed by a Planned

>r,,jcct r 2(,-I)21 OICI .\lann Pr>>jrct Rur>n           Kch>>rt I >r the I'i,n, in (.umnussion mccun,       ,I \lac 2$n 2U2(,

                                                 2
Development Overlay that allows a development pattern and mix of uses more characteristic of
the MU zone. As a result, rezoning this property to MU would be generally consistent with the
intent of the approved development on the adjacent properties. The MU zone is also intended to
create a more walkable, mixed-use environment where commercial, office, and residential uses
are integrated, which can support establishments such as restaurants and bars by encouraging
pedestrian access and reducing reliance on vehicle trips, including the potential for reduced
impaired driving impacts in a more urban, walkable setting.

If the rezone is approved, the Commission must also determine whether the proposed full-
service bar can operate in a manner that is compatible with surrounding uses. The site meets
the required separation distances and is located within a predominantly commercial area;
however, nearby approved residential development may be affected by outdoor patios,
ampliifed music, and late-night operating hours. The Commission should consider whether
conditions addressing these issues are necessary as part of the CUP.

Logan's Municipal Code Noise Ordinance (Title 8.16) regulates both general noise disturbances
and measurable sound levels by receiving land use zone. It prohibits unreasonable noise
disturbances and establishes maximum permissible decibel levels by zoning district, with stricter
standards during nighttime hours (10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.). The ordinance also specifically
regulates amplified devices, including music and sound systems, when they create noise
disturbances across property lines or within noise-sensitive areas. These standards would apply
to the proposed use and may inform appropriate CUP conditions related to outdoor activity,
amplified sound, and hours of operation.

In addition, the applicant will be required to bring the site into compliance with current LDC
standards for landscaping, usable outdoor space, and parking lot setbacks and landscaping.
This includes restoring previously required landscaping, providing at least 10% landscaping and
10% usable outdoor space, incorporating interior landscape islands so that no more than 20
parking stalls occur in a continuous row without a landscaped break, and adhering to parking lot
setbacks and buffers.

AGENCY AND CITY DEPARTMENT COMMENTS
No comments have been received.

PUBLIC COMMENTS
Notices were mailed to property owners within 300 feet of the subject property. As of the time of
this report, no comments have been received.

PUBLIC NOTIFICATION
Legal notices were published in the Herald Journal on 5/16/26, posted on the City's website and
the Utah Public Meeting website on 5/18/26 and mailed out to adjacent property owners within
300' on 5/11/26.

RECOMMENDED CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
  1. All standard conditions of approval will be recorded with the Conditional Use Permit and
     are available in the Community Development Department.
  2. This Conditional Use Permit authorizes one (1) Bar to operate at 185 E Cache Valley Blvd.
     and subject to approval and compliance with any requirements by Utah DABS and Logan
     City Business License regulations and requirements.
  3. Business shall observe Logan City's noise ordinance.
  4. Prior to the issuance of a Business License, the applicant shall construct landscape and
     usable outdoor space as per LDC square footage, setbacks, and buffers along with the
     required amount of parking stalls.


Project #26-0?] Old Mann ProjcctRcone               Staff Report for the Planning Commission meeting of May 28'", 2026

                                            3
  5. Front parking lot setbacks (south side) shall be 10 feet from property line and shall meet
     LDC 17.32.080.B requirements for either Type C or D separation. Side setbacks shall be 5
     feet from property line and landscaped with plant material covering a minimum of 50% of
         the border surface.
  6. Interior parking lot landscaping shall be provided so that no more than 20 parking stalls
     are located in a continuous row without a landscaped planter area.

RECOMMENDED FINDINGS OF APPROVAL
The Planning Commission bases its decision on the following findings supported in the
administrative record for this project:
  1. The subject property is located in an area that includes both Commercial (COM) and
      Mixed Use (MU) zoning designations. Rezoning the property to MU would extend the
      existing MU zoning pattern and would be consistent with the mixed-use character of
      nearby development.
  2. The MU zoning designation is appropriate for the site due to its proximity to alternative
      transportation modes, infrastructure, commercial services, and employment opportunities.
  3. Existing land uses in the surrounding area are predominantly commercial in nature.
  4. The proposed rezoning is not anticipated to result in adverse impacts to adjacent
      properties, as any future development will be required to comply with applicable zoning
      regulations and undergo Design Review.
  5. The proposed rezoning is consistent with the goals and policies of the Logan City General
      Plan, which encourage mixed-use development in areas with access to services,
      employment, and transportation options.
  6. The requested rezoning supports orderly growth and represents a logical continuation of
         existing MU zoning within the area.

  This staff report is an analysis of the application based on adopted city documents, standard city development practices, and available information. The report is to be used
  to review and consider the merits of the application prior to and during the course of the Planning Commission meeting. Additional information may be revealed by
  participants at the Planning Commission meeting which may modify the staff report and become the Certificate of Decision. The Director of Community Development
  reserves the right to supplement the material in the report with additional information at the Planning Commission meeting.




Projcct #?G-021 Old Mann Pmjcct Rcaonc                                                        Staff Report for the Planning Commission mccting of May 28', 2026
      `1►+                                   Old Mann Rezone
                                             i85 13 Cacho V illc           13h,d




T r :f_141 ,j
£'I I a                                 I                            'f1
                                 .i•.'. F'                                                 _
                     m




 tI           tL 4       •1 •'
                         •                           Al       . IJ a "re f, If"` * rr(.. '}Yd' TL,TL r+`Ir f1 vr'Fd!' T1 ' t.LZr'Gi.

I ç I.               1l' +' •1 ' _ _ 4 ifd s:j•N ' ', ti✓,s✓Qf:
                                                         ,.' d ` s *r- _
         s5                                                          'r



              PId17Illil              OIIlII115S1OIl                               \I:F ' 28. X026



                                             Old Mann Rezone
                                             185 F Cache Valley Blvd.
                                                                                                                             'I'
                                                  i
                                                  irn                . -.
                                                                                                              r




                                                          -                                             --1                       6
                                                          !r .                                           •I
                                                                 I                       M -12 , r


                                                    J1                      Zone CO/i - -
                                                      I                                            r^             •fig y


                                                  Zoning                           M      _x, 2026
                                                    Old Mann Rezone
                                                     I     F. Cache Valley Bhd.                                                                              a
                       ,r




              *'                               +w                                                       MV
1 s _,
         MIJ                                       (OM                                ." - High-Density,':
     .                                                                                      Residential ` .
                                                                                                                                                                 !.
                                                          s..                                            y ,




         .,                   COM                                                              Lower Density •'
                   5                                                                 ti,
                                                                                                        Residential                                       ''d
                                                                     FLU P



                                                    Old Mann Rezone                                                                                  {®
                                                     i85 I-. Cache Vallee Sled.




         .p •=i .,tea                                                   ' :.                        f                       *►nr                      ' -1
                                     I.
    r•                               1                                                -
---: L_` j                               a-mss       -   X01 _                                          _ _                x3t          • _.
                                                                                       Proposed Rezone: MU '
     a 1 • a4 eu ar. st9a                      r                             vim:•             5Mt . .                       = i a' 8t+:ti -'
                                                                                 1




    ' cL •.5-T
           • r t et a                      k
                                                             a rr
                                                                dd
                                                                      : _:...iI 'I                         - f,    -               IL
          .            L rghBtT• r                                   •w ._                 1   __              '       -                       _,.

_                                                  PI Op4)scd Zoning
