                                      CITY OF LOGAN
                                  RESOLUTION NO. 26-09

          A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE LOGAN 2045 GENERAL PLAN


WHEREAS, the Municipal Council finds that the Logan 2045 General Plan is of significant
importance to the vitality of the City of Logan and Cache Valley; and

WHEREAS, the City of Logan is experiencing substantial population growth, economic growth,
transportation pressures, and shifting demographics which will contribute to new ordinance and
policy decisions in the coming years; and

WHEREAS, the City of Logan enjoys a variety of amenities such as access to schools, parks,
community amenities, emergency services, recreational options, all of which contribute to its
overall well-being and which this Plan serves to protect and promote; and

WHEREAS, the Logan 2045 General Plan recognizes the importance of the historic downtown,
economic growth, obtainable housing, efficient transportation options, and other unique cultural
and natural resources, and identifies important goals and objectives and recommended
implementation strategies; and

WHEREAS, a lengthy public engagement process was utilized, including workshops,
stakeholder meetings, steering committee meetings, coordination with elected and appointed City
officials, community leaders, open house meetings, surveys, and public hearings to develop and
prepare this Plan to ensure residents had a chance to actively participate; and

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT THE LOGAN MUNICIPAL COUNCIL,
hereby adopts the Logan 2045 General Plan.


THIS RESOLUTION duly adopted upon this                day of                   ^ 2026 by the
following vote:

           Dahle, Melissa          0 Aye     ()Nay     () Abstained    ( ) Excused
           Johnson, Mike           ()Aye     ()Nay     () Abstained    () Excused
           Koven, Katie-Lee        ()Aye     ()Nay     () Abstained    () Excused
           Lopez, Ernesto          () Aye    ()Nay     () Abstained    () Excused
           Simmonds, Jeannie F.    () Aye    ()Nay     () Abstained    () Excused



                                                Mike Johnson, Chair
ATTEST:



Teresa Harris, City Recorder
EXHIBIT A
                       Future Land Use Plan
                      The Future Land Use Plan serves as a guide foi Logan's
                      long-term growth and development. Tliese designations arc
                      intended to cany out the vision and goals of the General Plan
                      and provide direction to the Planniiig Commission arid City
                      Council in evaluating development proposals. The following
                      section introduces the land use classifications that will shape

                      the community's growth over the next 20 years.




                 ruture Land Use

                        Lower Density                         Industrial
                        Residential

                        Mixed Residential
                                                  |[|| Parks and Open Space
                                                              Public Institution
                 m High-Density                               Airport
                        Residential
                                                  r   ●   -

                        Mixed-Use                             Priority Annexation
                                                              Areas
                 H Downtown                                   Environmentally
                        Commercial                            Sensitive Areas



                                                                                         Land Use
                                                                           Logan 2045 General Plan
WORKING DRAF
 FOR PLANI^ING COlWIvnSSION REVIEW
                           MEMORANDIUM
                           Date:   March 19,2026                                              SENTVIA.EMAIL
           CHICAGO
W Randolpti Si Suite 200
       Chicago IL 60601    To:     Russ Holley, AlCP
           312-372-1008            Community Development Director

                           From:   Houseal Lavigne
                                   Cody Ferguson, AlCP, Market Lead
                                   Andrea Barnes, Planner II

                           Re:     Logan General Plan - Zoning Audit Memo




                           The Zoning Audit Memo is an internal, standalone deliverable prepared to support City staff,
                           the Planning Commission, and City Council as they begin zoning updates following the
                           adoption of the Logan General Plan. Its primary purpose is to evaluate Logan’s existing Land
                           Development Code for its consistency, support, and overall alignment with the Plan’s
                           policies, recommendations, and actions.

                           The Memo identifies where zoning updates may be needed to better implement the General
                           Plan’s goals. These recommendations are intended as guidance and reference material for
                           the City as it considers zoning revisions. This Memo is not a formal, adopted policy
                           document; rather, it serves as an internal resource to inform and assist the City throughout
                           the zoning update process.




  Logan General Plan
  Zoning Audio Memo                                                                                             Page 1 of 8
Introduction
The General Plan is a policy guide that outlines actions that Logan can take to achieve the community’s
vision for its future. It serves as a foundation for decision-making by staff, elected and appointed officials,

developers, residents, and other stakeholders. While the Plan expresses the community’s vision and outlines
goals, objectives, and recommendations for future development, it is not regulatory. It does not have the
"regulatory teeth” to require new development or redevelopment to align with the Plan. That authority lies
within the Land Development Code (LDC), which includes the legally binding regulations that dictate how
properties can be used and implements the land use policies of the General Plan.

Land development regulations are the rules that new development and redevelopment must follow, making
them as essential tool in Plan implementation. Often, communities will adopt a plan with a clear vision, only
to “pull the reins back" on the land development regulations needed to achieve their objectives. The
common rationale for this is that stakeholders often feel that such regulations will drive development
elsewhere. However, properly drafted land development regulations that align with the vision and goals of
the General Plan can remove unnecessary barriers to investment by providing flexibility for potential
developments and offsetting the requirements related to design. In this way, land development regulations
offer an opportunity to implement the Plan by making preferred development easy.

This memo outlines how the City's existing regulations relate to the General Plan and why targeted updates
are needed to translate the Plan’s goals into clear, actionable standards. It summarizes relevant
recommendations from the Plan and organizes zoning- and subdivision-focused implementation strategies
in a way that makes it easy to see how each regulatory change supports the larger community vision.




What do Land Development Regulations Do?
Land development regulations dictate how land can be divided, assembled, built upon, and used and include
subdivision, zoning, and sign ordinances.


Zoning Ordinances
Zoning Ordinances are how local governments regulate land use. Local governments receive the authority to
establish and adopt zoning ordinances by the state zoning enabling act to manage how land is developed and
used to protect public health, safety, and welfare. There are several approaches to zoning, including but not
limited to:


     ●     Euclidean Zoning. Euclidean zoning is the traditional approach to zoning that divides a community
           into zoning districts based on the types of uses that are desirable in different areas and establishes
           rules for how land in each district can be developed and used. Euclidean zoning districts keep high
           intensity uses that may impact surrounding properties, like manufacturing, away from less intense
           uses, like homes and schools. Each district establishes different rules that limit development
           activity, including which use types are allowed and how they are permitted as well as building size,
           where on a lot a building can be located, how much open space must be left over, and how much
           parking had to be provided.
     ●     Incentive Based Zoning. Incentive-based zoning is a type of Euclidean zoning that offers flexibility in
           standards and requirements in exchange for items that help a community reach its goal, such as the
           provisions of affordable housing and preservation of open space and environmental features.
           Increased density, height, or lot coverage are some of the most common types of incentives offered
           along with relief from requirements for parking and other development standards as detailed below.




Logan General Plan
Zoning Audio Memo                                                                                           Page2ol8
     ●     Overlay Zoning. Overlay zoning is used in concert with Euclidean zoning to establish unique
           standards for specific areas that are otherwise governed by multiple zoning districts such as
           downtowns, commercial corridors, areas surrounding transit stops, and historic neighborhoods, in
           some circumstances, the overlay zoning applies additional standards on top of the standards of the
           base zoning district, while in other circumstances the overlay zoning district standards supersede or
           replace the standards of the base zoning district. The standards established in overlay zoning district
           often control building architecture and design, allowed density and development patterns, and other
           topics that make the area governed by the overlay district unique.
     ●     Development Standards. Development standards, often called standards of general applicability,
           are an integral component of Euclidean zoning. They include regulations that are relevant for all uses
           throughout zoning districts, such as off-street parking and loading, landscaping, fences, and buffer
           yards.
     ●     Use Specific Provisions. Use-specific standards are another integral component of Euclidean
           zoning. They include detailed regulations applicable to specific uses such as accessory dwellings,
           home occupations, food trucks, drive throughs, or outdoor storage, regardless of the district in
           which they are located.
     ●     Planned Unit Development. Planned Unit Development (PUD) is a development review and
           approval procedure that uses site development allowances for greater flexibility from underlying
           regulations in siting and design. Through the planned unit development process, a developer can
           request deviations from standards such as lot area, building height, mix of uses, and any other
           requirement of a base or overlay zoning district in exchange for tangible benefits to the development
           and community such as the preservation of open space, activation of public gathering spaces,
           higher quality architecture and design, and enhances landscaping.


Sign Ordinances
Sign ordinances manage the type, size, and location of permanent and temporary signs in a community.
Where a sign ordinance is located within a municipal code varies community to community, but can often be
found in the zoning ordinance, building ordinance, business ordinance, or as a standalone title. In 2016, the
Supreme Court of the United States decided in the Reed v Town of Gilbert case that impacted the majority of
sign ordinances throughout the country, Logan included. This decision clarified that sign copy is protected
speech underthefirst amendment and held signs cannot be treated differently based on their
communicative content. If a sign regulation can only be enforced by reading what the sign says, then that
regulation is a violation of the first amendment. For example, signs that communities traditionally have
established specific regulations for, such as real estate signs or political campaign signs, are no longervalid.


Unified Development Ordinances
Unified development ordinances (UDO) bring together all land development regulations into one section of a
municipal code including subdivision, zoning, and sign ordinances. Unified development ordinances help to
streamline regulations and review and approval processes, making them easier to use, administer, and
enforce.



Updating Logan's current Land Development Regulations
Development Standards and Use-Specific Regulations
Several elements within Logan’s zoning districts, development standards and overlay districts may limit
alignment with the General Plan's goals related to housing diversity, neighborhood commercial activity,
corridor revitalization, and mixed-use development. Key gaps include:



Logan General Plan
Zoning Audio Memo                                                                                          Page 3 of 8
     ●     Logan’s Neighborhood Residential districts are largely limited to detached single-family homes. If
           the City wishes to expand housing variety and infill opportunities, modest adjustments to allowable
           housing types in select NR districts could be considered. Given the City’s goal to encourage infill and
           a range of housing types at varying price points, the current structure may limit price point diversity,
           aging-in-place options, and opportunities for incremental affordability.
     ●     Logan allows ADUs by right on lots with an owner-occupied detached single-family home and
           permits both internal and detached configurations. The code requires one additional off-street
           parking stall beyond the two stalls required for the primary dwelling. In contrast, many cities have
           adopted more flexible ADU by reducing or eliminating off-street parking requirements, with some
           allowing parking reductions or waivers when on-street parking is available or when units are located
           near transit or in walkable areas.

     ●     A key theme in the General Plan is to encourage neighborhood-s erving commercial nodes within
           residential areas. However, neighborhood commercial uses are prohibited in most residential
           districts (NR-2, NR-4, and NR-6). Although Logan has a Neighborhood Commercial (NC) district,
           neighborhood-serving commercial uses are only permitted on properties currently zoned
           Neighborhood Commercial (NC).
     ●     Logan allows parking reductions through shared parking agreements and alternative parking plans.
           Minimum parking requirements for some commercial uses along key corridors, such as 400 North,
           could be updated to better align with current industry standards and best practices, helping support
           small-scale retail, mixed-use redevelopment, and more walkable commercial environments.


Future Land Use and Zoning Alignment
The Plan’s Future Land Use Map identifies the preferred land uses in the City and illustrates how the
community envisions development transitioning in the coming decades. Although the Future Land Use map
is not regulatory, it should be used as a guide for the City when considering development proposals or
rezoning requests. To ensure that new development and redevelopment is consistent with the Future Land
Use Map and vision and goals of this Plan, the City should consider proactively rezoning areas across the City
to align with land use patterns illustrated in the General Plan.

      ●     Land surrounding the Logan-Cache Airport is currently zoned Resource Consen/ation (RC),
            Traditional Neighborhood Residential (NR-6), and Gateway (GW). Each of these districts permits
            residential use, while the Future Land Use Plan designates this area as a future employment hub
            intended to support industrial and manufacturing activities, compatible office uses, and the
            infrastructure necessary for airport operations.
      ●     The intersection of 1000 W and 200 N is currently zoned Commercial Service (CS), Commercial
            (COM), and Mixed Use (MU). However, the Economic Framework and Future Land Use Plan envision
            this area evolving into “West Town," a walkable, mixed-use destination that would function as a
            town center for the Ellis and Woodruff neighborhoods.
      ●     The southern edge of the City along US 89/91 is currently zoned Resource Conservation (RC), while
            the Future Land Use Plan envisions this area developing as a commercial corridor supported by a
            mix of surrounding residential uses.
      ●     400 N is a key corridor and one of the main entrances to the Utah State University campus. Although
            it is currently zoned NR-6, both the Future Land Use Plan and the 400 N Corridor Plan envision the
            area transitioning to a mixed-use area with surrounding high-density residential development.
      ●     Along the southern end of US 89/91 portions of the “X” Overlay Zone are currently zoned as
            Resource Conservation (RC), but the Future Land Use Map envisions that changing to Commercial


Logan General Plan
Zoning Audio Memo                                                                                            Page 4 of 8
            and Mixed Residential. The “X" Overlay Zone limits subdivision or development intensity on the
            parcel. This restricts the ability to achieve the General Plan’s intended mixed residential and
            commercial intensity without future zoning amendments or overlay modifications.


Land Development Regulation Action Table
The Land Development Regulation Action Table offers specific recommended zoning updates related to
recommendations outlined in the Logan 2045 General Plan. The Plan recommendations in the first column of
the following action table are zoning specific and are highlighted in the Action Matrix. Relative to other types
of implementation tasks, zoning and regulatory-related items are relatively low cost, can often be undertaken
by City staff working with the Zoning Board of Appeals and/or consultants, and can be completed in a
relatively short timeframe.

                       General Plan                                    Zoning Implementation
                     Recommendation                                       Recommendations


                                  Chapter 06: Housing and Neighborhoods
                                     Housing Affordability and Availability
   Encourage lot consolidation across the City to           Adopt formal lot and parcel consolidation
   facilitate infill development on larger lots.            standards in the Land Development Code that
                                                            allow administrative approval for conforming lots
                                                            and clarify eligibility, review process, and approval
                                                            procedures.

   Consider establishing a vacant and underutilized         Amend the Land Development Code to allow
   site transformation program that partners with           residential infill development on vacant and
   local builders, churches, and other large property       underutilized parcels subject to specific setback,
   owners to convert vacant properties into context-        height, building material, landscaping, and parking
   sensitive infill housing.                                standards, with administrative approval for
                                                            projects that meet all applicable requirements.

   Review the external ADU location requirements, in        Amend ADU standards to permit detached ADUs
   older neighborhoods with shallow lots or irregular       on legally established lots that do not meet current
   configurations, to increase the number of eligible       minimum lot size or width requirements, and
   lots across the City.                                    revise setback and lot coverage standards where
                                                            needed to improve feasibility.

                                     Moderate Income Housing Strategies
   Rezone for densities necessary to facilitate the         Zoning Action Item
   production of moderate-income housing.

   Zone or rezone for higher density or moderate-           Zoning Action Item
   income residential development in commercial or
   mixed-use zones near major transit corridors,
   commercial centers, or employment centers.




Logan General Plan
ZoningAuOio Memo                                                                                              Pages of 8
                       General Plan                                   Zoning implementation
                     Recommendation                                      Recommendations

  Amend land use regulations to allow for higher            Zoning Action Item
  density or new moderate-income residential
   development in commercial or mixed-use zones
   near major transit corridors.




  Amend land use regulations to eliminate or reduce         Zoning Action Item
  parking requirements for residential development
  where residents are less likely to rely on personal
  vehicles, such as near majortransit corridors or
   senior living facilities.




   Create or allow for, and reduce regulations related      Zoning Action Item
   to, multifamily residential dwellings that are
   compatible in scale and form with detached
   single-family dwellings in walkable communities
  within residential or mixed-use zones.


  Adopt or approve a qualifying affordable home             Zoning Action Item
   ownership density bonus for single-family
   residential units, as described in Utah Code
   Section 10-9a-403.2.


   Adopt or approve a qualifying affordable home            Zoning Action Item
   ownership density bonus for multi-family
   residential units, as described in Utah Code
   Section 10-9a-403.3.




                                             Planning for New Growth
   Consider establishing a vacant lot transformation       Establish clear infill development standards within
   program that partners with local builders to turn        the Land Development Code that provide
   underutilized land into infill housing.                  predictable, objective criteria for redevelopment of
                                                            vacant and underutilized sites.




Logan General Plan
Zoning Audio Memo                                                                                         Page Sol8
                        General Plan                                 Zoning Implementation
                     Recommendation                                     Recommendations

   Encourage developers to use low-impact                 Create a Low Impact Development (LID) incentive
  development (LID) practices such as rain gardens,       framework within the Land Development Code
   permeable pavements, and natural drainage              that allows flexibility in density or design standards
   systems in new residential developments.               when projects incorporate stormwater practices
                                                          such as rain gardens, permeable pavement, and
                                                          natural drainage features.

  Support established residential neighborhoods by        Amend the Land Development Code to permit
   encouraging neighborhood commercial areas,             neighborhood-serving commercial uses in
   parks, and community gathering spaces that build       designated residential nodes, update park
   on local identity.                                     dedication standards to support small
                                                          neighborhood parks, and establish design
                                                          standards for community gathering spaces within
                                                          new development.

                                   Chapter 07: Economic Development
                                    Business Attraction and Retention
   Review zoning to ensure it is aligned with             Amend the Zoning Map and Mixed Use (MU), Town
   community goals and can effectively promote and        Center (TC), and Commercial (COM) district
   support the development of mixed-use walkable          standards to ensure consistency with the Future
   areas to attract foot traffic and encourage            Land Use Map and to support mixed-use
   exploration of local shops.                            development.

                                                  Destinations
   Work with local businesses to facilitate temporary     Amend temporary use provisions to establish a
   pop-up shops and maker fairs in vacant                 clear, administrative approval process for short
   storefronts to test new experiential retail concepts   term retail and market activities in vacant

   and highlight local makers.                            storefronts and private lots within Commercial,
                                                          Mixed Use, and Town Center districts.

   Expand mixed-use development and residential           Amend Town Center (TC-1 and TC-2) district
   options Downtown to increase foot traffic and          standards to allow smaller ground-floor
   support businesses.                                    commercial spaces and greater residential
                                                          flexibility in mixed-use buildings Downtown.

                                            Economic Framework
   Adopt corridor design standards that encourage         Amend the Gateway Overlay Zone and the Zoning
   consistent landscaping, signage and facade             Map to expand Gateway Overlay boundaries to
   treatments, creating a distinct gateway identity.      include the northern portion of Main Street.

                                 Chapter 08: Transportation and Mobility
                                                Roadway Network
   Ensure future development supports a connected         Amend subdivision and site development
   street system.                                         standards to require block connectivity, street
                                                          stub-outs, and pedestrian connections to adjacent
                                                          developable parcels.




Logan Oencrai Plan
Zoning AuOio Memo                                                                                          Page 7 of 3
                      General Plan                                 Zoning implementation
                     Recommendation                                  Recommendations

  Ensure that new development along gridded street     Amend site development and subdivision
  corridors fully connects with existing and planned   regulations to require alignment with adopted
  roadway networks.                                    street grids and prohibit dead-end commercial
                                                       drive aisles where through-connections are
                                                       feasible.


                                          Roadway Improvements
  Review code requirements to ensure parking is      Review and revise minimum parking requirements
  correctly scaled to the actual need.               in the Land Development Code to better align with
                                                     actual demand, transit access, and shared parking
                                                       opportunities.


                         Chapter 10: Community Facilities and infrastructure
                                         Water Use and Preservation
  incorporate Low Impact Design (LID) and               Update subdivision and landscaping standards to
  Conservation Design concepts in future                require drought-tolerant landscaping, limit turf in
  development and redevelopment to reduce the           landscaped areas, and incorporate Low Impact
  demand for water and promote overall water            Development (LID) stormwater practices in new
  quality enhancement in the region.                   development and redevelopment.

                                     Chapter 11: Community Design
                                          Placemaking and Identity
   Utilize local materials, design elements, and       Amend Gateway Overlay and sign standards to
   landscaping to enhance gateways and third            incorporate placemaking elements, landscaping,
   places.                                              and gateway signage that reinforce local identity.

   Incorporate outdoor seating and/or small public     Add a Public Art and Streetscape option to the
  gathering spaces into streetscapes within the         Code that allows minor incentives such as

  City’s commercial areas.                              reduced parking minimums, a small increase in
                                                        fagade coverage flexibility, or administrative
                                                        approval of minor site plan deviations when
                                                        developments include publicly accessible art
                                                        installations, murals, sculptural elements, or
                                                        enhanced streetscape features.




Logan General Plan
ZoningAudio Memo                                                                                         Page 8ol8
                               MEMORANDIUM
                               Date:   March 19, 2026                                               SENT VIA EMAIL
               CHICAGO
iB8 W Randolpli Si Suite 200
          Chcago 16060i        To:     Russ Holley, AlCP
               312-372-1008            Community Development Director

                               From:   Houseal Lavigne
                                       Cody Ferguson, AlCP, Market Lead
                                       Andrea Barnes, Planner II

                               Re:     Logan General Plan - Existing Land Use/Future Land Use Land Acreage
                                       Comparison




                               At the request of the Planning Commission at its meeting on March 12,2026, we have
                               compiled the acreages of existing land uses (ExLU) in Logan and land uses proposed in the
                               future land use (FLUP) as proposed in the Logan 2015 General Plan. While such a
                               comparison can be instructive, it should be done with careful consideration as the existing
                               land uses do not exactly fit those proposed in the FLUP. For example, the FLUP envisions
                               Logan as fully built out, without any significant land in production agricultural uses. Much of
                               this land that will remain undeveloped and may support some agricultural uses was
                               included in the new "Parks and Open Space” land use in the FLUP. An “Agricultural” land
                               use category does not exist in the FLUP. Likewise, when comparing residential acreage in
                               the ExLU and the FLUP, it should be noted that the FLUP expands the amount of land
                               designated for mixed-use compared to the ExLU. This designation includes a mix of
                               residential and commercial uses that complicates comparing residential uses easily
                               between the ExLU and FLUP. In addition, most of the residential categories in the FLUP step
                               up overall density for new development or redevelopment compared to the ExLU so a clean
                               comparison is difficult. There are similar incongruities in the commercial and industrial land
                               uses between the ExLU and FLUP. To conduct an accurate comparison, the reader must
                               take into account permitted uses, densities, etc. in each land use category as described in
                               the City’s current zoning code (for ExLU) and the FLUP in the Logan 2045 General Plan.

                               With those disclaimers, below is a summary of the acreage for the ExLU and FLUP and
                               copies of the ExLU and FLUP maps for reference.




      Logan General Plan
      Land Use Comparison 1 of 3
                                                 Eusting Land Use
                                                                   S indMiMlg     4     ,
                                                     8«q1»FwimCv   H PMe«A0 Motet
                                                     Dt4j0MO

                                                                      PMftcaMOpoo
                                                     ACUM3            IpOCM
                               k                 _   MulteP«rmir      imiOMAAd
                                                                      tr*mp>rtJt»oo

                                                 91 C«<wn«mt
                                                                      VK«m
                                                 H cmc*
                                                                         / 1




                             Existing Land Use Acreage

                     AG-Agriculture                                          692.06

                     AIRPORT                                                 436.24
                     COM-Commercial                                          981.79

                     IND-Industrial                                          503.51

                     MF-Multi-Family                                         725.70
                     MU-Mixed-Use                                                6.97

                     OF-Office                                               124.38

                     POS- Parks and Open Space                            1024.35
                     PSP- Public and Semi-Public                          1616.52

                     SFA-Single-Family Attached                              236.88

                     SFD - Single-Family Detached                        2660.26

                     UT - Utilities and Transportation                       251.23
                     VAC-Vacant                                           1659.43
                     Total                                             10919.30




Logon General Plan
Zoning Audio Memo                                                                           Page 2 of 3
                                                 hitwcLiadUs*



                                                                m ^ffcsvsdCfev^&Aiat
                                                    ^*CK<«Ty

                                                    MWCHK*



                                                    C^AVU




                              Future Land Use Acreage

                     Agricultural                                                      0.00

                     Airport                                                   1324.69

                     Commercial                                                1054.71

                     industrial                                               4036.37

                     Downtown                                                    179.63

                     Mixed-Use                                                   512.04

                     High Density Residential                                    162.81

                     Lower Density Residential                                 5161.18

                     Mixed Residential                                           919.94

                     Parks and Open Space                                      1569.99

                     Public Institution                                        1547.87
                     Total*                                                 16469.23
                     *lncludes annexations




Logan General Plan
Zoning Audio Memo                                                                             Page 3ol3
