                                        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                        LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD
                                     REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                       COMBINED MEETING AGENDA
                                         Wednesday, June 9, 2021
Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council, LBA & RDA will hold a combined meeting Wednesday, June 9, 2021, at the Bluffdale
City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah scheduled to begin promptly at 6:00 p.m. or as soon thereafter as possible. This meeting
will also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. The public may comment at the meeting or by emailing comments to
councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by the Mayor and or City Council may be by
electronic means via telephonic conference call.

WORK SESSION 6:00 P.M. – (The work session is for identifying future items and other council discussion. In
accordance with Utah Code § 52-4-201(2)(a), while the meeting may be open to the public, there will not be any
opportunity for public input during the work session).
 1. Roll Call
 2. Presentations –
     a. Discussion related to the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District Water Conservation Ordinance,
         presenters, Michael Fazio (staff) and Alan Packard, Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District.
     b. Discussion related to requests for special events using City infrastructure like parks, etc., staff presenter,
         Shane Paddock.
 3. Council Discussion
 4. Administration of the Oath of Office to the Deputy City Recorder, Angie Olsen, presenter, Judge Scott
    Mickelsen.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
 1. Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*
 2. PUBLIC FORUM – (4-minute maximum per person to bring items not already on the agenda before the
    Council. Participants are encouraged to submit a written statement (1 copy) for items that are complex or
    that may require more than 4 minutes to present). Additionally, comments for this item and all Public
    Hearing items may be submitted via email to: councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com.
 3. CONSENT AGENDA –
     3.1 Approval of Resolution No. 2021-28, authorizing the City Manager to sign the Professional Services
         Agreement for the final design and construction plans by Think Architecture, Inc., for the Day Ranch Park.
 4. Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-29, adopting certain restrictions on the use of Fireworks
    within certain areas of the City, staff presenter, Fire Chief Warren James.
 5. Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-30, adopting a Water Regulation and Conservation Program
    for the City, imposing penalties for violations, and related matters, staff presenter, Michael Fazio.
 6. Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-31, providing a temporary reduction in Transportation Impact
    Fees, staff presenter, Bruce Kartchner.
 7. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on Ordinance No. 2021-11, adopting an amended Consolidated
    Fee Schedule for Administrative, Service and Development Fees, including Water Rates charged by the City of
    Bluffdale, staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer.
 8. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-32, adopting the proposed tax rate for
    Salt Lake County for the purpose of levying taxes within the City of Bluffdale for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022,
    staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer.
 9. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-33, adopting the proposed tax rate for
    Utah County for the purpose of levying taxes within the City of Bluffdale for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022, staff
    presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer.
 10. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-34, adopting a Tentative Operating or
     Final Budget for the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year Budget, staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer.
     (LBA & RDA Public Hearings held in conjunction)
LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD MEETING
    1. Roll Call
    2. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-03, adopting a Tentative Operating or
       Final Budget for the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year Budget, staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer.
       (LBA Public Hearing held in conjunction with the City Budget Hearing)
    3. Adjournment
BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
    1. Roll Call
    2. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-02, adopting a Tentative Operating or
       Final Budget for the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year Budget, staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer.
       (RDA Public Hearing held in conjunction with the Budget presentation & discussion)
    3. Adjournment
CONTINUATION OF BUSINESS MEETING
 11. Mayor’s Report
 12. City Manager’s Report and Discussion
 13. Closed meeting pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205(1) to discuss the character, professional competence, or
     health of an individual, collective bargaining, pending or imminent litigation, strategies to discuss real
     property acquisition, including any form of a water right or water shares, security issues, or any alleged
     criminal misconduct (if needed).
 14. Adjournment
Dated: June 04, 2021
I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING NOTICE AND AGENDA WAS FAXED TO THE SOUTH VALLEY JOURNAL, THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNE, AND
THE DESERET NEWS; POSTED AT THE BLUFFDALE CITY HALL, EMAILED OR DELIVERED TO EACH MEMBER OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL;
ON THE CITY’S WEBSITE AT WWW.BLUFFDALE.COM AND ON THE PUBLIC MEETING NOTICE WEBSITE, WWW.PMN.UTAH.GOV




                                                                   Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                                   City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this meeting
should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1. *Contact the City Recorder if you
desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.
                                       Michael Fazio, P.E. City Engineer


Memo
Date:   6 June 2021
From:   Michael Fazio, P.E.
To:     Mayor Timothy
        City Council
CC:     Mark Reid, City Manager


RE:     Proposed new ordinance for Water Efficiency Standards related to the Jordan Valley
        Water Conservancy District drinking water purchasing contract




The City purchases all of its drinking water from Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD).
The water contract includes an estimate of water use for all the contract years. JVWCD is committed
to provide the City the committed amount plus 20%. If the City exceeded 120% of the contract
amount, JVWCD would sell the excess water at the minimum contract amount without any change in
rate per acre-foot of water sold. Periodically the contract is reviewed and renewed to address growth
and new demand in the City.

Recently (November 2019) JVWCD approved new regulations to govern all water purchasing
contracts. JVWCD has divided the purchasing contract in two blocks, 1 and 2. The block 1 supply
rates will only be used to supply the approved contract amounts plus 20% at the minimum contract
amount. Block 2 is the water needed to satisfy the water needs beyond the 120% of the contract
amount.

The new water purchasing contract stipulates that if the City adopts the Water Efficiency standards
that JVWCD has adopted (see the attached standards), JVWCD will not increase the water rates. If
the City does not adopt the new standards the water rates for exceeding 120% of the contract amount
will double and the excess volume of water will not be guaranteed.

The City plans on adopting these standards and provide them at the next council meeting for
adoption. Only new home/businesses and/or reconstruction of existing homes and businesses are
affected by these standards. The City will collect a landscaping bond with the strict requirement that it
follows the new standards. The bond will be released once the City has verified that the landscaping
complies with the ordinance.

Below are excerpts form an email from Alan Packard P.E., JVWCD Assistant General Manager and
Chief Engineer.




                                     2222W 14400W, Bluffdale, Utah 84065;
                                     Tel. 801-559-7781; mfazio@bluffale.com
“In the past, so long as Jordan Valley had sufficient supplies available, member agencies could take
deliveries of water in excess of 120% of minimum contract amount without any change to the rate
charged per acre-foot.
In November 2019, the Jordan Valley Board adopted policy changes to the Rules & Regulations for
Wholesale Service. The changes include:
     1. Established a Block 1 water supply (existing supplies plus certain new supplies) that are
         committed to serving lands annexed into Jordan Valley service area as of January 15th,
         2019. The Block 1 supply and associated rates charged will only be used to satisfy minimum
         contract amounts plus 20%.
     2. Established a Block 2 water supply which will be made available to lands which annex into
         Jordan Valley service area after January 15, 2019. The pricing for the Block 2 water supply is
         based on the most recent major water supply developed by Jordan Valley (contracted with
         Central Utah Water Conservancy District for an allocation of its Central Water Project supply
         and constructed a 48” pipeline to convey the supply from Utah County into Salt Lake County).
     3. The Block 2 supply is also designated as the supply to satisfy demands beyond 120% of
         minimum purchase contract. If a wholesale member agency exceeds 120% of contract
         amount, beginning July 1, 2021 Jordan Valley will charge the Block 2 rate (about twice the
         average of all rates charged for Block 1) on amounts of water exceeding 120% of
         contract. We estimate that Bluffdale City may exceed 120% of its current water purchase
         agreement contract amount in September or October.
     4. In order to use our less expensive Block 1 water supplies as efficiently as possible, Jordan
         Valley will only approve increases in water purchase contract amounts if the member agency
         demonstrates that it has implemented the Jordan Valley water efficiency standards. The
         water efficiency standards apply to all new construction.”
WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

1. Purpose
The purpose of these Water Efficiency Standards is to conserve the public's water
resources by establishing water conservation standards for indoor plumbing fixtures and
outdoor landscaping.

2. Applicability
The following standards shall be required for all developer/contractor installed residential,
commercial, institutional, and industrial construction, as applicable. The Outdoor
Landscaping Standards shall also be required for new landscaping construction installed
by homeowners.

3. Indoor Fixture Requirements
It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and future
construction and future additions, remodels, or refurbishments install plumbing fixtures
that have the WaterSense label, including: lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets,
water closets (tank and flushometer-valve toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law
allows municipalities or local districts to require these fixtures.

4. Outdoor Landscaping Standards
All new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects, private development
projects, developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and single-family residential
projects within the front and side yards, and homeowner provided landscape
improvements within the front and side yards of single and two-family dwellings shall
comply with the landscaping standards below:

Definitions

A. Activity Zones: Portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function, such as
storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

B. Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where Lawn
may be used as the playing surface (ex. sports fields and play areas).

C. Central Open Shape: An unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of
Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric in nature.

D. Gathering Areas: Portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating, such
as patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating areas.

E. Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or
compacted inorganic mulch.

F. Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.

G. Localscapes®: A landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step approach (central open shape,
gathering areas, activity zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).

H. Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, compost, wood chips or other materials left
loose and applied to the soil.

I. Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and
sidewalk.

J. Paths: Designed routes between landscape areas and features.

K. Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees, ornamental
grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.

L. Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the property that incorporate all of the
completed features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include footprints
of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated areas
intentionally left undeveloped.

5. Landscaping Requirements

A. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the
highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas.
Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end
assembly, and any other appropriate components.

B. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil
conditions, and plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds
shall be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
shall be placed on separate irrigation valves.

C. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation
controller which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation
events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped
with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.

D. At least 3-4 inches of Mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in Planting
Beds to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.
E. At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material (perennials
and shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane,
not including tree canopies.

F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips, Paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1
grade, and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. To the extent reasonably
practicable, Lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
etc.).
G. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following Localscapes
requirements:

i. If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard shall
include a designed Central Open Shape created by using Lawn, Hardscape,
groundcover, gravel, or Mulch.
ii. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of Hardscape and placed outside of the
Central Open Shape. In a landscape without Lawn, Gathering Areas may
function as the Central Open Shape.
iii. Activity Zones shall be located outside of the Central Open Shape and shall be
surfaced with materials other than Lawn.
iv. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include Lawn, such as
Hardscape, Mulch, or other groundcover.
v. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of 250 square feet, or 35% of the Total
Landscaped Area.
vi. Small residential lots, which have no back yards, which the Total Landscaped
Area is less than 250 square feet, and which the front yard dimensions cannot
accommodate the minimum 8 feet wide Lawn area requirement of the
Landscaping Requirements in section F, are exempt from the 8 feet minimum
width Lawn area requirement.
H. In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family development common area
landscapes, Lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the Total Landscaped Area, outside
of Active Recreation Areas.

I. Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.)
may receive exceptions from the slope limitations and other elements of the
Landscaping Requirements (see Paragraph F, above). Applications to receive
exceptions are to be considered on a case-by-case basis.

J. These outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict with other landscaping
requirements as defined by Utah law, including stormwater retention requirements
and low-impact development guidelines. Notwithstanding these outdoor standards,
whenever any requirement may be in conflict with Utah law, such conflicting
requirements shall not apply.
                                RESOLUTION NO. 2021-28

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
AUTHORIZING THE CITY MANAGER TO ENTER INTO A PROFESSIONAL
SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH THINK ARCHITECTURE, INC FOR THE DAY
RANCH PARK DESIGN.

        WHEREAS, Bluffdale City (the “City”) is obligated to build and maintain certain
infrastructure and rights-of-way within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City and Think Architecture, Inc. desire to enter into an agreement for the
design of the Day Ranch Park; and

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”) finds that entering into said
agreement would be in the best interest of the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Authorize to Sign. The City Council hereby authorizes the City Manager to
enter into the attached agreement with Think Architecture, Inc.

       SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON
THIS ______ DAY OF _________________________, 2021 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                   YES       NO    ABSTAIN       ABSENT

                      Councilmember Aston
                      Councilmember Crockett
                      Councilmember Gaston
                      Councilmember Hales
                      Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                             Attest:
         Derk P. Timothy                                     City Recorder




                                                                                       Page 1 of 1
                        PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT

        This Professional Services Agreement is between Bluffdale City, a Utah municipal corporation
(the “City”) and Think Architecture, Inc. (the “Contractor”).

       The City and the Contractor agree as follows:

1.     RETENTION AS CONTRACTOR

       The City hereby retains the Contractor, and the Contractor hereby accepts such engagement,
       to perform the services described in Section 2 (the “Services”). The Contractor warrants it
       has the qualifications, experience, and facilities to properly perform the Services.

2.     DESCRIPTION OF SERVICES

       See attached proposal.

3.     COMPENSATION

       Except for authorized extra services (pursuant to Paragraph 4), the total compensation payable
       to the Contractor by the City for the Services described in Paragraph 2 is $257,500 (Includes
       an allowance of $10,000 for American Bike Ramps Travel Expenses to be billed for
       expenses incurred up to a maximum of $10,000).

       All payments shall be made within thirty (30) calendar days after the Contractor has provided
       the City with written verification of the actual compensation earned, which written verification
       shall be in a form satisfactory to the City. Invoices shall be made no more frequently than on
       a monthly basis, and describing work performed, including a list of man-hours by personnel
       classification. Billing shall be on a per hour basis.

       Compensation will not exceed the amount in the proposal without prior written authorization.

4.     EXTRA SERVICES

       Any compensation more than the amount stated in Paragraph 3 must be authorized in writing
       before performance of the extra services. If the Contractor performs extra services without
       written authorization, the City shall not be obligated or liability to the Contractor for those
       extra services. Further, the Contractor shall have no right to claim compensation for such
       extra services or expenses.

5.     EFFECTIVE DATE, COMPLETION, AND TERM

       A.      This Agreement is effective on the date that the last party executes this Agreement as
               indicated by the date stated under that party’s signature line.

       B.      The Services shall be substantially completed within 150 days from the Effective Date.

       C.      The City and the Contractor are aware that many factors outside the Contractor
               control may affect the Contractor ability to complete the Services in a timely manner.


                                                                                Professional Services Agreement
                                                                                                      Page 1 of 7
            Accordingly, the Contractor shall perform the Services with reasonable diligence and
            expediency consistent with sound professional practices.

     D.     The term of this Agreement shall end when the Services are performed but no later
            than 260 days from the Effective Date.

6.   OWNERSHIP OF DOCUMENTS

     All drawings, designs, data, photographs, reports, and other documentation, including
     duplication of same prepared by the Contractor in the performance of the Services, shall
     become the property of the City upon termination of the consulting services pursuant to this
     Agreement and upon payment in full of all compensation then due to the Contractor. The
     City agrees to hold the Contractor harmless from all damages, claims, expenses and losses
     arising out of any reuse of the plans and specifications for purposes other than those described
     in this Agreement or future task orders, unless written authorization of the Contractor is first
     obtained.

7.   HOLD HARMLESS AND INSURANCE

     The Contractor specifically and expressly agrees to indemnify, and save and hold harmless the
     City (including without limitation its elected and appointed officers, employees, successors,
     and assigns) from and against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions,
     attorney fees, or other costs incurred by the City and/or proceedings in law or equity
     (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs of suit), to the extent caused by or resulting
     from any negligence, gross negligence, intentional misconduct, or under any other actionable
     fault of the Contractor (including without limitation its employees, agents, subcontractors, or
     Contractors) in the performance or failure of performance of the Contractor provided herein,
     or to be provided hereunder. Nothing herein shall, however, require the Contractor to
     indemnify, and/or save or hold harmless the City or its elected or appointed officers,
     employees, successors, or assigns with respect to (i) negligence, intentional misconduct, or
     other actionable fault of the City or tis elected or appointed officers, employees, successors,
     or assigns, or of the agents or Contractors of the City other than the Contractor; or (ii) any
     demand, liability, claim damage, action, and/or proceeding not related to the services provided
     herein or to be provided hereunder.

     The Contractor shall, at the Contractor’s sole cost and expense and throughout the term of
     this Agreement and any extensions thereof, carry:

     A.     Commercial General Liability with policy limits of not less than Two Million Dollars
            ($ 2,000,000.00) for each occurrence and Two Million Dollars ($ 2,000,000.00) in the
            aggregate for bodily injury and property damage.

     B.     Automobile Liability covering vehicles owned, and non-owned vehicles used, by the
            Architect with policy limits of not less than those carried in Commercial General
            Liability Limits per accident for bodily injury, death of any person, and property
            damage arising out of the ownership, maintenance and use of those motor vehicles,
            along with any other statutorily required automobile coverage.



                                                                              Professional Services Agreement
                                                                                                    Page 2 of 7
      C.     The Contractor may achieve the required limits and coverage for Commercial General
             Liability and Automobile Liability through a combination of primary and excess or
             umbrella liability insurance, provided such primary and excess or umbrella liability
             insurance policies result in the same or greater coverage as the coverages required per
             each policy, and in no event shall any excess or umbrella liability insurance provide
             narrower coverage than the primary policy. The excess policy shall not require the
             exhaustion of the underlying limits only through the actual payment by the underlying
             insurers.

      D.     Workers’ Compensation at statutory limits.

      E.     Professional Liability covering negligent acts, errors and omissions in the performance
             of professional services with policy limits of not less than Two Million Dollars
             ($ 2,000,000.00) per claim and Two Million Dollars ($ 2,000,000.00) in the aggregate.

      F.     The Contractor shall maintain all employee related insurance, in the statutory amounts,
             such as unemployment compensation, worker's compensation, and employer's
             liability, for its employees or volunteers involved in performing services pursuant to
             this Agreement.

      G.     All insurance policies shall be issued by a financially responsible company or
             companies authorized to do business in the State of Utah with an A.M. Best rating of
             “A-“ or better. The Contractor shall provide the City with copies of certificates for all
             polices with an endorsement that they are not subject to cancellation without 30 days
             prior written notice to the City and the City, its officers and employees, shall be named
             as additional insured on General and Automobile liability policies only.

8.    RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES

      The relationship of the parties shall be that of independent Contractors and that in no event
      shall the Contractor be considered an officer, agent, servant, or employee of the City. The
      Contractor shall be solely responsible for any workers compensation, withholding taxes,
      unemployment insurance and any other employer obligations associated with the described
      work.

9.    CORRECTIONS

      In addition to the above indemnification obligations, the Contractor shall correct, at its
      expense, all errors in the work that may be disclosed during the City’s review of the
      Contractor’s report or plans. Should the Contractor fail to make such correction in a
      reasonably timely manner, such correction shall be made by the City, and the cost thereof shall
      be charged to the Contractor.

10.   TERMINATION BY THE CITY

      The City, by notifying the Contractor in writing, may upon 10 calendar days’ notice, terminate
      any portion or all of the Services. In the event of such termination, the Contractor shall have
      the right and obligation to immediately assemble work in progress for the purpose of winding


                                                                               Professional Services Agreement
                                                                                                     Page 3 of 7
      up the job. All compensation for actual work performed and charges outstanding at the time
      of termination shall be payable by the City to the Contractor within 30 calendar days following
      submission of final statement by the Contractor.

11.   ACCEPTANCE OF FINAL PAYMENT CONSTITUTES RELEASE

      The acceptance by the Contractor of the final payment made under this Agreement shall
      operate as and be a release to the City from all claims and liabilities for compensation to the
      Contractor for anything done, finished or relating to the Contractor’s work or services.

      However, approval or payment by the City shall not constitute nor be deemed a release of the
      responsibility and liability of the Contractor, its employees, subcontractors, agents, and
      Contractors for the accuracy and competency of the information provided and/or work
      responsibility or liability by the City for any defect or error in the work prepared by the
      Contractor, its employees, subcontractors, agents, and Contractors.

12.   WAIVER; REMEDIES

      Failure by a party to insist upon the strict performance of any of the provisions of this
      Agreement by the other party, irrespective of the length of time for which such failure
      continues, shall not constitute a waiver of such party’s right to demand strict compliance by
      such other party in the future. No waiver by a party of a default or breach of the other party
      shall be effective or binding upon such party unless made in writing by such party, and no
      such wavier shall be implied from any omission by a party to take any action with respect to
      such default or breach. No express written waiver of a specified default or breach shall affect
      any other default or breach, or cover any other period of time, other than any default or breach
      and/or period of time specified. All of the remedies permitted or available to a party under
      this Agreement or at law or in equity shall be cumulative and alternative, and invocation of
      any such right or remedy shall not constitute a waiver or election of remedies with respect to
      any other permitted or available right or remedy.

13.   CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE

      The provisions of this Agreement shall be construed as a whole according to its common
      meaning and purpose of providing a public benefit and not strictly for or against any party. It
      shall be construed consistent with the provisions hereof, in order to achieve the objectives and
      purposes of the parties. Wherever required by the context, the singular shall include the plural
      and vice versa, and the masculine gender shall include the feminine or neutral genders and vice
      versa.

14.   MITIGATION OF DAMAGES

      In all situations arising out of this Agreement, the parties shall attempt to avoid and minimize
      the damages resulting from the conduct of the other party.

15.   GOVERNING LAW

      This Agreement, and the rights and obligations of the parties, shall be governed and
      interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Utah.

                                                                               Professional Services Agreement
                                                                                                     Page 4 of 7
16.   CAPTIONS

      The captions or headings in the Agreement are for convenience only and in no other way
      define, limit or describe the scope or intent of any provision or section of the Agreement.

17.   AUTHORIZATION

      Each party has expressly authorized the execution of this Agreement on its behalf and bind
      said party and its respective administrators, officers, directors, shareholders, divisions,
      subsidiaries, agents, employees, successors, assigns, principals, partners, joint ventures,
      insurance carriers and any others who may claim through it to this Agreement.

18.   ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND MODIFICATIONS

      This Agreement supersedes any other agreements, either oral or writing, between the parties
      hereto with respect to the rendering of services, and contains all of the covenants and
      Agreements between the parties with respect to said services. Any modifications of this
      Agreement will be effective only if it is in writing and signed by the party to be charged.

19.   PARTIAL INVALIDITY

      If any provision in this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
      void or unenforceable, the remaining provisions will nevertheless continue in full force
      without being impaired or invalidated in any way.

20.   NOTICES

      Any notice required to be given hereunder shall be deemed to have been given by depositing
      said notice in this United State mail to the addresses listed below.

21.   STANDARD OF CARE

      The Contractor shall perform the services required hereunder in accordance with the
      prevailing engineering standard of care by exercising the skill and ability ordinarily required of
      engineers performing the same or similar services, under the same or similar circumstances, in
      the State of Utah.

22.   CITY-PROVIDED INFORMATION AND SERVICES

      The City shall furnish the Contractor available studies, reports and other data pertinent to the
      Contractor's services; obtain or authorize the Contractor to obtain or provide additional
      reports and data as required; furnish to the Contractor services of others required for the
      performance of the Contractor's services hereunder, and the Contractor shall be entitled to
      use and rely upon all such information and services provided by the City or others in
      performing the Contractor's services under this Agreement.

23.   ESTIMATES AND PROJECTIONS




                                                                                 Professional Services Agreement
                                                                                                       Page 5 of 7
         The Contractor has no control over the cost of labor, materials, equipment or services
         furnished by others, over the incoming water quality and/or quantity, or over the way the
         City’s plant and/or associated processes are operated and/or maintained. Data projections
         and estimates are based on the Contractor’s opinion based on experience and judgment. The
         Contractor cannot and does not guarantee that actual costs and/or quantities realized will not
         vary from the data projections and estimates prepared by the Contractor and the Contractor
         will not be liable to and/or indemnify the City and/or any third party related to any
         inconsistencies between the Contractor’s data projections and estimates and actual costs
         and/or quantities realized by the City and/or any third party in the future.

24.      THIRD PARTIES

         The services to be performed by the Contractor are intended solely for the benefit of the City.
         No person or entity not a signatory to this Agreement shall be entitled to rely on the
         Contractor's performance of its services hereunder, and no right to assert a claim against the
         Contractor by assignment of indemnity rights or otherwise shall accrue to a third party as a
         result of this Agreement or the performance of the Contractor's services hereunder.


        In witness whereof, this Agreement has been executed by the parties effective on the date
stated under that party’s signature line.


BLUFFDALE CITY


Signature:
Print Name:
Title:
Date:


Notice sent to:

Address: 2222 West 14400 South
Address: Bluffdale, Utah 84065
Attn: City Recorder




                                                                                 Professional Services Agreement
                                                                                                       Page 6 of 7
CONTRACTOR                                            Notice sent to:


Signature:                                            Address:
Print Name:                                           Address:
Title:
Date:


State of                       )
                               §
County of                      )


On this ___ day of ______________________, 20____, personally appeared before me ________
_______________________ (name of document signer), whose identity is personally known to me (or
proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) and who by me duly sworn/affirmed, did say that
he/she is the __________________________ (title of office) of _____________________________
_______________________ (name of corporation) and that said document was signed by him/her in
behalf of said Corporation by Authority of its Bylaws, or (Resolution of its Board of Directors), and
said ________________________________ (name of document signer) acknowledged to me that said
Corporation executed the same.



                                                      Notary Public




                                                                               Professional Services Agreement
                                                                                                     Page 7 of 7
May 6, 2021

Jennifer Robison
2222 West 14400 South
Bluffdale, UT 84065-5248

jrobison@bluffdale.com


Subject: Day Ranch Central Park Construction Documents

Dear Jennifer,

Per our discussion on the phone earlier this week, I prepared this scope of work and
proposal for the construction documents for Day Ranch Park. As we discussed, I
contacted Josh Willis at American Ramp Company and got their proposal for the
design and preparation of construction documents for the bikepark and skatepark
features. We will include them under our scope of work.

I have outlined the proposed scope and fee as follows:

   1. Concept Plan Refinement (Concept Design & Design Development)

           a. Refine the existing concept plan and develop the plan to a level of a
              construction document base. Work with Bluffdale City staff to select
              playground features, surfacing type, site amenities, pavilions,
              restrooms, etc.

           b. American Bike Ramps will meet with city staff virtually to discuss
              options and preferences for the bike and skate park components.
              American Bike Ramps will prepare concept designs alternatives for the
              park and get City input and direction. Included under this scope of
              work is a virtual public outreach (i.e. web page, concept 3D images,
              and public survey to get public input).

           c. Color-rendered plan and 3D images of final site plan of all park
              components. If the city desires, we can post these images online to
              obtain final feedback prior to beginning construction document
              phase.

           d. Think Architecture will provide an opinion of probable cost for all site
              components identified in the concept plan and concept engineering.
              We will work with Bluffdale City to develop a list of priority components
              and if needed, break out potential alternates and/or identifying future
              phases.
2. Construction Documents

      a. The areas included in the construction drawing set will include the
         following general areas as identified in the attached concept plan:

                i. Approximately 8.84 acres north of Rochelle Drive
               ii. Approximately 10.28 acres east of Puma Mountain Way
              iii. Approximate 4.0 acres southeast of Mountain Point Elementary
                   (dog park parcel[s])

      b. Think Architecture and its subconsultants will prepare construction
         drawings and project specifications for bidding. The subconsultants
         are as follows:

                i. American Ramp Company/Progressive Bike Ramps (bike/skate
                   park design)
               ii. Perigee Consulting (Survey & Civil Engineering)
              iii. Breinholt Power Engineering (Electrical)

      c. Construction documents will include:

                i.   Survey of existing property
               ii.   Site Development Plans
              iii.   Planting Plans
             iv.     Irrigation Plans
              v.     Site Details
             vi.     Civil Engineering Plans
            vii.     Bike park & Skate Park plans
            viii.    Electrical Plans.

          It is assumed that no custom architectural design will be required for
          pavilions and/or restrooms and that all structural design plans will be
          provided by the vendor for any pavilions or restrooms.

      d. Think Architecture will work with City’s vendors to incorporate design
         drawings for playgrounds, pavilions, and restrooms. It is assumed that
         the City will direct-purchase all site furnishings from their vendors.

      e. Think Architecture will provide a revised opinion of probable cost prior
         to bidding to identify any apparent cost changes since the concept
         design phase.

3. Bidding Phase

      a. Provide electronic documents to Bluffdale City for bidding.

      b. Provide bid support during the bidding phase to include:

                i. Answer questions raised by potential bidders
               ii. Prepare any addenda and supplemental exhibits as needed
              iii. Assist city in evaluating bid proposals to determine the lowest
                   responsible bidder.
4. Meetings
     a. Think Architecture and their sub-consultants will attend any
         coordination meetings as required for the approval and
         implementation of the concept plan and construction documents.
         Virtual meetings are preferred, but in-person meetings will be
         attended as required.

           The exception to this is the travel and per diem expenses of American
           Bike Ramps as detailed in the fee proposal below and the attached
           hourly rate schedule for Progressive Bike Ramps.

5. Fee Proposal
      a. Per the city, the available budget for the first and second phases is
          $6,546,310.

       b. The city will self-perform all construction management services. Think
          Architecture will be available to provide support during the
          construction phase at an hourly rate as defined by the attached Think
          Architecture fee schedule. See item 6 below.

       c. Proposed fee is based on State of Utah DFCM Project Design Fee
          Schedule for Engineering Projects. Given the total budget for phases 1
          and 2, the DFCM schedule recommends a design fee of
          approximately 5.5%, which equates to a $360,047 design fee.

           However, as this 5.5% fee typically includes the concept design phase
           (of which, approximately 50% of that phase work was completed in a
           prior contract) and the addition of concept design for the skate and
           bike parks, and construction administration which will be self-
           performed by the City, with only submittals being reviewed for
           conformance to the project documents, we are discounting the fee
           percentage in the following manner;

            Phase                  Typ %       Typical Fee     Discount   Proposed Fee
            Concept Design          15%       $54,007.06        50%        $27,003.53
            Design
            Development             20%       $72,009.41         0%       $72,009.41
            Construction
            Documents               35%      $126,016.47         0%       $126,016.47
            Bidding                  5%       $18,002.35         0%        $18,002.35
            Construction
            Documents &
            As-builts               25%       $90,011.76        95%        $4,500.59
            Total                            $360,047.05                  $247,532.35

           Total Proposed Fee: $247,500 *

    * Note that American Ramp Company will bill for any on-site meetings and
      travel & expenses per their direct costs breakdown. It should be assumed
      that at least one site visit will be required to become familiar with the site
      and incorporate any unique site features into the bike & skate park
      design. If in-person workshops or public input are required, the costs for
      travel and expenses will be billed in addition to the fee outlined above.
   6. Construction Management

           a. Bluffdale City desires to self-perform all construction administration
              services.

           b. Think Architecture, Perigee Consulting and Breinholt Power will review
              product submittals.

           c. Additional meetings, preparation of exhibits, and any consulting
              services beyond what is specifically identified in this proposal will be
              billed on an hourly rate for each individual task requested by the
              owner. See attached hourly rate schedule for Think Architecture.


   7. Proposed Schedule
      Proposed schedule presumes a notice to proceed in late May 2021.

           Work item                                         Timeframe
           a. Construction Plan Refinement                   6 Weeks (July 15)

           b. Construction Documents                         10 Weeks (September 30)

           c. Bidding                                        3 Weeks (October 21)


Excluded items:

       a. See travel expenses by American Ramp Company as described under Item 5
          above.

Agreement:
The signature line below formalizes your acceptance of this proposal. The executed
original of this Agreement shall serve as authorization to proceed with the services outlined
in this proposal. Upon receipt of this signed proposal, Think Architecture will prepare a
standard AIA contract between Owner and Architect. Billing will occur on a monthly basis
as work and services are provided.

Acceptance:



__________________________________            ______________________
Authorized Signature                          Date

Sincerely,
THINK Architecture




Troy R. Sanders
Principal
                                                                                                                                                                             VIEW AREA / AMPHITHEATER
                                                                                                                                                                             PICNIC SHELTER, TYPICAL OF 3
                                                                                                   TRAIL CONNECTION                                                          PERIMETER WALK / TRAIL
                                                                                                   BRIDGE AT CANAL CROSSING                                                  OPEN LAWN




                                                                          4 - PICKLEBALL COURTS,
                                                                          2 - TENNIS COURTS
                                                                          RAISED CROSSWALK

                                           TRAIL

PAVILION / RESTROOMS, PLAZA AT
TERMINUS OF PROMENADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRAIL
- PAVILION CAPACITY: 90
- PRIVATE RESTROOMS: 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BICYCLE TRACK
- STORAGE ROOM: 7' x 12'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PICNIC SHELTER
PLAYGROUND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SKATE PARK
WALK WITH BENCHES AT                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SMALL PLAZA AND GAZEBO AT
PLAYGROUND EDGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TERMINUS OF PROMENADE
                                             A Y
                                           W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ORNAMENTAL METAL
                                     UFF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FENCE AT FRONTAGE
                               B   L
                          RK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                X       X




                        A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SMALL DOG PARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                       P




                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PARKING - 11 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STAGING PLAZA - BENCHES, TRASH RECEPTACLES,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




PERIMETER WALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRINKING FOUNTAINS (DOG FRIENDLY)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




SOCCER FIELD LAYOUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LARGE DOG PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BLACK COATED CHAIN LINK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FENCE AT PERIMETER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                              YOUTH SOCCER                         PARKING - 113 STALLS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                              FIELD LAYOUT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                   PAVILION / RESTROOMS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X                               X




                                                                                                                                                                   - PAVILION CAPACITY: 90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                   - PRIVATE RESTROOMS: 3                                                                                                                                               X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                   - STORAGE ROOM: 7' x 12'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DOG PARK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                   TREE LINED PROMENADE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ANAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                         ROCHELLE DAY DRIVE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AN C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JORD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EAST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X
                                                                                                                                           MOUNTAIN POINT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
                                                                                                                                         ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LAWN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    X

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            X




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MEADOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHARED RECREATION FIELD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            BRIDGE AT CANAL CROSSING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TRAIL ACCESS




                                                                                                                                             HARMON DAY DRIVE

                                                           PARKING - 80 STALLS
                                                           SMALL PLAZA AND GAZEBO
                                                           AT CORNER


               1 DECEMBER 2020                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PARK MASTER PLAN

                                                                                                                                                                PHASE III ENLARGED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT NUMBER: 19019



                                                                                                                                DAY RANCH PARK MASTER PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE UTAH
                0     30       60              120 NORTH
American Ramp Company
601 McKinley
Joplin, MO 64801




                                           $7.5K DESIGN CONTRACT
                                                    + reimbursable expenses


American Ramp Company provides professional design services geared to create a completely custom asphalt pumptrack design that is
unique to your community. Our team of professional riders, designers, engineers and visual artists will work directly with your project
team to generate ideas and develop your park.

Our Conceptual Design services will include the following:

Community Engagement Meeting
     -   American Ramp Company will host a live meeting with your local riders or project team to formulate ideas for your concept
         design
     -   Review of samples designs with group to identify a preferred theme
     -   Summarize meeting findings with group
Site Review
     -   Review location of asphalt pumptrack for opportunities and constraints
     -   Discuss potential locations for entry, spectator viewing and drainage flow
Design Revisions
     -   Revise conceptual design based on feedback from initial input (2-revisions included)
     -   Verify the design is responsive to the site and budget
Cost Estimate
     -   Provide cost estimate (lump sum) for construction of approved asphalt pumptrack design
Deliverables
     -   Large poster size print of final design
     -   Cost Estimate (lump sum)
Total Cost
     -   The total cost for our interactive professional Conceptual Design Package = $7,500.00 (100% due at time of signing)
                                            + Reimbursable Expenses (Not to exceed $1,500.00/Please refer to Attachment A)



Customer Name:                              Billing Address:

________________________________            ___________________________________________________________________

Phone Number:                               Fax Number:                                 Email Address:

________________________________            __________________________                  _______________________________

Approved By:                                Signature                                   Date

________________________________            ___________________________                 _______________________________
Print Name / Title
American Ramp Company
601 McKinley
Joplin, MO 64801



                                                         ATTACHMENT A

                                                     HOURLY RATE SCHEDULE

                                        Effective January 2021 through December 2021



Hourly Rates                                                   Example of Direct Costs are as follows:

Project Manager                       $110                         •    Flights (based on coach fare rates)
                                                                   •    Car Rental (based on economy car rate and includes
Civil Engineering                     $110                              all applicable taxes, fees, insurance, and fuel
                                                                        charges)
Designer                              $70                          •    Accommodations (not to exceed $200 / night)
                                                                   •    Meals ($60.00/ per diem, per person)
CAD Manager                           $70
                                                                   •    Parking Fees (airport, garage, and/or metered)
Computer Imaging                      $70                          •    Tolls
                                                                   •    Printing/Duplicating/Plotting/Blueprinting
Administration Services               $55                          •    Messenger
                                                                   •    Postage/Federal Express
Public Meetings & Site Visits         $100                         •    Graphics
                                                                   •    Photographs




Sub-consultants                                                Direct Costs

A Sub-consultant Management Fee of ten percent                 A ten percent (10%) will be added to the direct costs mentioned
(10%) will be added to the direct cost of all sub-             above.
consultant services to provide for the cost of
administration, sub-consultant consultation and
insurance.

Additional Options/Services

Video Fly Through = $2,000.00
    -    Create video fly through of approved
         concept design
    -    Send video for uploading to social media
         sites
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2021-29
     A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE ADOPTING CERTAIN
   RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF FIREWORKS WITHIN CERTAIN AREAS OF
                             THE CITY
        WHEREAS, current and forecasted prolonged drought, coupled with extremely dry
vegetation throughout Salt Lake County, have created hazardous fire conditions demanding extreme
caution; and
          WHEREAS, minimizing the threat of wildfires and brush fires in the City of Bluffdale is
critical to maintaining public health, safety, welfare, and economic well-being for our citizens; and
        WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Fire Department recently completed wildfire hazard
mitigation surveys through the city; and
      WHEREAS, those surveys identified portions of the city that are at the greatest risk to fast
moving fires impacting structures; and
        NOTWITHSTANDING, the 4TH of July celebrates the founding of America, of which the
celebration typically involves launching of fireworks.
        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Bluffdale City Council that the use
of any fireworks in the following areas are restricted:
    1. East of and south of the current and proposed Porter Rockwell Blvd including all lands
       bordering the Camp W G Williams Military Reservation.
    2. East of the UTA/Union Pacific Railroad Tracks and north of 14400 South.
    3. Within 50 yards of the Jordan River or any canal within the boundaries of Bluffdale is also
       restricted.
APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON
THIS ______ DAY OF _________________________, 2021 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                        YES       NO    ABSTAIN         ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                                  Attest:
          Derk P. Timothy                                         City Recorder
Bluffdale Fireworks Restrictions 2021
                                                          4150 W




                                                                                                                                                                          3200 W
                                                                                           3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                              2900 W
                                                                                                                                          33 00 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13330 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REDWOOD RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1300 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13360 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DATA DR
     Provo Reservoir Canal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 13400 S




                                                                                                                                                    FIREBACK DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1930 W
                                                                                                         CHATEL DR




                                                                                                                                   AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1775 W
                                                        INNOVATION DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AR                                                                     N                                                                                                                                                        OO R                                                                                                                                                                                13490 S




                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              110 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOMESTEAD L
                                                                                                                        NI
                                                                                                                           X                                                                                                     R                                                                        13520 S                                                                                                                   HUN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 200 W
                                                                                                     CHAM O                                                                                                                                   W                                                                             13550 S
                                                                                                                                                                                      SANBORN DR                                                  AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         135 95 S                                                                      BISON DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2080 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           WESTERN C H ARM D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              600
                                                                                                CH                                                                                                                    13640 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VE
                                                                        3825 W
                                                          4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2260 W
                                                                                                     AM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13660 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                        B                                                                  13680 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LO
                                                                      3870 W


                                                                                                            ER
                                     4170 W




                                                                                                              YL
                                               4100 W




                                                                                                                               N                                                                               Rose Creek                                                                                                              TORLUNDY DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      13760 S
                                                                                 WA


                                                                                                                13800 S                                                                                                                                                                                              13800 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13800 S                             13775 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BANGERTER HWY
                                                                                   SA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JORDAN BASIN LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1950 W
                                                                                                                                                              KAILYE LN
                                                                                      T




                                                                                                                                                                                                     2950 W
                                                         DEER HILL WAY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4
                                                                                     CH



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1835 W
                                                                                          VIS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MARKE TV
W ATCH M                                                                                     TA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IEW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                     EN




                                                                                                     DR                                                                                                                                                                       BRIDLE WAY                                                                    14000 S
                         GREENFORD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      14000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2055 W
                                       W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CLYDESDALE CIR
                                              AY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                            3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           B LU E Q U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18 50 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          14095 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ND
                                                                                                                                                                  Uta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y
                                                    DEER ORCHARD DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    141




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L L DR
                                                                                                                                                                     hL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 65




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        14150 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PK
                                                      FAWN H                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S
                                                                                                                                                                          ake
                                                             ILL LN                                                                                                                                       14200 S                                                                                                           14200 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IS
SE


                             LN




                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M
                                                                                                                                                                                            COUNTRY CLASSIC DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         U
                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                              istri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LO
  NT




                                               D




                                                                                                            3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KE
                                                                                                                                                                                    but




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LC
                                              O
    IN



                                       AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Y
                                                                                                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YA
     EL




                                                                                                                                                                                     gC
                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VAL L E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DG
                       RI




                                                                                                                                                                                        ana

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2395 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PRESERVE CT                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                     S H LN
                          D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TE R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2585 W
RO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M                                                                                                                                                                                                  B RU
                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                    BUE
                                                                                                                      3400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1700 W
     MA
                                     E




                                         BL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                          H LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              950 W
                        NL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           YC
                                              VD                                                                                                                                     RC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1328 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1515 W
                                  N                                                                                                                                                              IR                                                                                                             OAK P
                                                                                           3600 W
                                                                         DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12                                                                                                                                                  14600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2400 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE BLVD                                                                       S
                                                                        A




       MCKEL                                                                                                                                                                14600 S                                                           W                                                                                                                                                                                                                      00
                                                                      ST




             LE
                                                                                                                                          L VD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                T
                                                N DR                                                     BO U L D E N B                                                                                                                           AY                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             855 W
                                                                   VI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            830 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R
                                                                 AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HI
                                                                                                                                                                          VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1
 NA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            69
                                                               RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                          M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 289




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIFE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HL
   SH                                      O                                                                                                                               14750 S                                                                         STATEHOOD DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0W
                                                                   AC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DR
                                         M UNT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Uta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                             LN                                       ADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0W




                                          OU                              MY P                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ASPEN AVE 14 8 05 S                                                                                                                                                                                         East Jordan Canal                                                                                                                             D DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ha
                                                 AI
                                                                                                                                   CA S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NOELL NELSON DR
                                                                                                               PEL




                                             NT N                              K                                                                                                                                                                                                    14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       nd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                               AI     V                                                                                                                                              14865 S
                                                        IE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DR
                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                  N
                                                                                    S




                                                                                                                   E




                                                    VI W N              O NN
                                                                                                                                     TL
                                                                                                     Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              alt
                                                                                                                                                                                        3030 W




                                                                             E LN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2490 W
                                                                                                                      LN


                                                                                                                                       E




                                                      EW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A
                                                              B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lak




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ES
                                                                                                                                              VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   na
                                                           SB     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WY XPR
                                                                                                                                                        L LEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                         WOLFLEY CT




                                                              HW Y                15000 S                                                                                                                                        15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2475 W




                                                                 Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2815 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BF YE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MOUNT A I N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MI
                                                                                                                                                                                            2990 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TT CE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        rig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15090 S
                                                                                                                                                                  DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5 N PON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ROCK H O L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NE
                                                                                                           PRINZ LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BA PEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15170 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ap

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IT KYFA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ON Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           O                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                          3200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H A CK W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15220 S                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15250 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        FW D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T                                                 P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I RO                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N H ORS E                                                                                                                                                                                            JO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ER                     UN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O                                      RT                 MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AY P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I              G   HT W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LY L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l        na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  South Jordan Ca                                      EAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ER SE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              V              DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E R VIEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RIV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E R R O C KW E L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RT                                              L BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  VD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K      Y AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CE          PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SH                                  SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       900 W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C
                                                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                          R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O TR U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BRI
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        U P SS
                                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                               LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LER D R
                                                                                                                        HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CAM




                                                                                                                  OD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LN




                                                                                                          WO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I LLI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           K
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AIR

                                                                   Legend
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         do    ck C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16580 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1825 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GE




                                                                                           Bluffdale City Boundary
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R RO W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NA                        SR
                                                                                           Fireworks Restricted Area                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A            N                                                                                                                                                                  TH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D IG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O                                                                                                                                                                                        AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J                                                                                                                                                                                               KS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ITA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IV

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IN
                                                                                           County Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SUPPLY S                                                                                                                                                              G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  POWER AVE                                                                                                       PI L                          AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IM         S LOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N                    A NCE A                                                                                                                                                                                                  P RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAINTE
                                                                                           Railroad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W YOMING                                                                                                                                                   D   itch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEVADA                                                                                                                                              iv   er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ll R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Bu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UTAH                                                                                                                                                                      UE                                  BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               l




                                                                                           Waterway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cana




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 LR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NA N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             VD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OR E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ibutin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Distr




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TS R




                                                                                                                                                                              BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EX




                                                                                                                                                                                      EF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jo




                                                                                                                                                                                                 H OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                da




                                                                                                                                                                                                               LO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Utah




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ve




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 VE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               E I LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             K WY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      REVEILLE TRAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      S     ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2950 N                                                    T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           al




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4180 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ervoir Can




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        REDW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L BR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O O K WA Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3550 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OO D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Provo Res




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2700 N                                                                      2700 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BAR H R D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2600 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2550 N                                                                                    2550 N 2550 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WAY




                                                  ±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HU   D S ON                                                                    DREXLER DR                                        2450 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4120 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2400 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2360 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2330 N                                   al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C                                                                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N TAIN VIEW                                      dn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SB HW              OU                                             G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M                          Y                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2100FEMA,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sources: Esri, Airbus DS, USGS, NGA, NASA, CGIAR, N Robinson, NCEAS, NLS, OS, NMA, Geodatastyrelsen, Rijkswaterstaat, GSA, Geoland,
Updated: June 1, 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Intermap and the GIS user community                                   2100 N
                                       Michael Fazio, P.E. City Engineer




Memo
Date:   7 June 2021
From:   Michael Fazio, P.E.
To:     Mayor Timothy
        City Council
CC:     Mark Reid, City Manager


RE:     Water Conservation Plan




The City is formulating a plan for water distribution to selectively determine how water (drinking and
irrigation) is used especially as it regards to years when the water supply is limited because of
decreased precipitation and increased temperatures. In accordance with Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District (JVWCD), the City has prepared a draft plan to decided how to limit the water
consumption during a drought and a prolonged drought. The plan sets 5 levels of water availability
according to JVWCD criteria which is set, as shown below, to the level of the sources from where
JVWCD receives the water that they treat and distribute.

               Normal – At least 95% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 80%
                allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater diversions below safe
                yield
               Moderate – At least 95% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 75%
                allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield
               Severe – At least 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 75%
                allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield
               Extreme – At least 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; less than 75%
                allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield
               Critical – Less than 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; less than 45%
                allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield

The City, using the same levels, assigned measures for reducing or encouraging users to reduce
water consumption. The measures shown in the table below include the reduction of watering during
the day, reduce the number of days of watering, forbid the use of water for car washing apply stringent
water rates and cease irrigation altogether.




                                    2222W 14400W, Bluffdale, Utah 84065;
                                    Tel. 801-559-7781; mfazio@bluffale.com
                                               Michael Fazio, P.E. City Engineer


Water Year   Indoor Water                Residential Outdoor Water                 Irrigation Water for      Water for Industrial and
Supply                                                                             Parks and                 Agricultural Use
                                                                                   Recreational Facilities

Normal       Water conservation          Water conservation                        Water conservation        Water conservation
             encouraged*.                encouraged*.                              encouraged*.              encouraged*.

Moderate     Household water             Household water conservation              Water grassed areas       Recommend irrigating
             conservation plan.**        plan. Grass watering every                three times week.         fields twice a week.
                                         other day. No watering during             Reduce water to trees.
                                         the day.**                                No watering during the
                                                                                   day.

Severe       Household water             Allow grassed areas to be                 Water grassed areas       Recommend irrigating
             conservation plan. **       watered twice a week. Apply               once a week. Reduce       fields once a week. No
             Apply drought water rates   drought water rates level 1.              water to trees.           car washing.
             level 1

Extreme      Apply drought water rate    Allow grassed areas to be                 No watering of grassed    Mandate limiting
             level 2.                    watered once a week.                      areas. Reduce tree        irrigation. No car washing.
                                                                                   watering to once a
                                                                                   week.

Critical     Apply drought water rate    Cease irrigation.                         Cease irrigation.         Cease irrigation. No car
             level 3.                                                                                        washing.




                                            2222W 14400W, Bluffdale, Utah 84065;
                                            Tel. 801-559-7781; mfazio@bluffale.com
                                      Michael Fazio, P.E. City Engineer




The City is working on scaled water rates to be applied as shown in the table. The rates will be
directly proportional to lot size and average family size per unit.

I recommend approving the resolution to adopt a water distribution/conservation plan.




                                    2222W 14400W, Bluffdale, Utah 84065;
                                    Tel. 801-559-7781; mfazio@bluffale.com
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2021-30

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
ADOPTING A WATER REGULATION AND CONSERVATION PROGRAM FOR THE
CITY, IMPOSING PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS, AND RELATED MATTERS.

       WHEREAS, Governor Cos issued an executive order dated March 17, 2021, declaring a state
of emergency due to current drought conditions throughout the state; and

        WHEREAS, Bluffdale City was notified by Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District that
drought conditions will affect the City and the District to help manage the impact of drought
conditions and take conservation efforts, including educating residents, limiting outdoor use of
culinary water, and

        WHEREAS, The City Council is authorized under State law and City ordinance to regulate
and restrict the use of water when necessary to protect the health, welfare, and safety of its residents
and to provide for the enforcement of such regulations, Utah Code §§ 10-7-12 to -14; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is necessary to adopt a conservation plan,
enforcement provisions in efforts to reduce or mitigate the effect of drought conditions and to ensure
that the City and its residents continue to have a reliable, resilient, and sustainable water supply.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Adoption of Policy. The City Council hereby adopts the attached policy
shown in Exhibit A.

       SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON
THIS ______ DAY OF _________________________, 2021 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                       YES       NO    ABSTAIN         ABSENT

                       Councilmember Aston
                       Councilmember Crockett
                       Councilmember Gaston
                       Councilmember Hales
                       Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                                 Attest:
         Derk P. Timothy                                         City Recorder




                                                                                               Page 1 of 1
                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                RESOLUTION No. 2021-31

      A RESOLUTION TO TEMPORARILY REDUCE THE TRANSPORTATION IMPACT FEE

A.       On October 28, 2020 the City of Bluffdale, Utah (the “City”) adopted an impact fee
facilities plan (“IFFP”) and impact fee analyses (“IFA”) for parks & recreation, storm drainage,
water, public safety and transportation impact fees in accordance with UCA Section 11-36a-;
and

B.     On October 28, 2020 the City adopted Ordinance 2020-23 (the “Enactment”) which
enacted the impact fees for parks & recreation, storm drainage, water, public safety and
transportation; and

C.   The City desires to reduce impact fees for commercial development for a period of 12
months to encourage economic development; and

D.     The definitions in this Ordinance are same as those in the IFFP, IFA, and Enactment;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings. The Council finds and determines as follows:

1.1.    As a means to encourage commercial development within the City, the City Council
reduces the transportation impact fee for non-residential development by 40% from $7,489
per PM Entering Trip to $4,710 per PM Entering Trip. This reduction will become effective upon
the passage of this Resolution for a period of 12 months or until a new IFA and IFFP are
enacted, whichever comes first.
                                                    City of Bluffdale

                                                    __________________________________
                                                    Mayor

ATTEST:

________________________________
City Recorder
Voting by the City Council:     Yes    No
       Councilmember Aston      ____   ____
       Councilmember Crockett   ____   ____
       Councilmember Gaston     ____   ____
       Councilmember Hales      ____   ____
       Councilmember Kallas     ____   ____
                                   CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                     ORDINANCE NO. 2021-11

       AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN AMENDED CONSOLIDATED FEE
       SCHEDULE FOR ADMINISTRATIVE, SERVICE AND DEVELOPMENT
       FEES, INCLUDING WATER RATES, CHARGED BY THE CITY OF
       BLUFFDALE

       WHEREAS, the City Council desires to update the existing fees charged by the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the fees set forth in the amended Consolidated Fee
Schedule are reasonable and necessary and comparable to those imposed by other municipalities for
similar administrative, services and/or development matters and that such fees are equitable in relation
to the costs incurred by the City; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety
and public interest of the residents and businesses within the City to amend the Consolidated Fee
Schedule as more particularly set forth herein;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

         Section 1. Adoption. The Consolidated Fee Schedule of Bluffdale City is hereby adopted to
read in its entirety as set forth in Exhibit "A" attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference.
All previously adopted fee schedule ordinances and resolutions are repealed and superseded by this
Ordinance.

       Section 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after recording in the
Office of the City Recorder.

PASSED, ADOPTED AND DATED: June 09, 2021



                                              ____________________________________
                                              Mayor Derk P. Timothy
ATTEST:

_____________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder

Voting by the City Council:               “AYE”           “NAY”

Councilmember Aston                       _____           _____
Councilmember Crockett                    _____           _____
Councilmember Gaston                      _____           _____
Councilmember Hales                        _____          _____
Councilmember Kallas                      __ ___          _____
        Exhibit A
Consolidated Fee Schedule
CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE

GENERAL
1.1.010. PHOTOCOPIES, MAPS & DIGITAL DATA
         Black & White Copy 81/2X11 ..................................................................................................... $0.15/Page
         Color Copy 81/2X11 ................................................................................................................... $0.75/Page
         Black & White Copy 11X17 ...................................................................................................... $0.30/Page
         Color Copy 11X17 ..................................................................................................................... $1.50/Page
         Black & White Map 11X17 or Smaller.................................................................................................... $3
         Black & White Map Larger than 11X17.................................................................................................. $7
         Color Map 11X17 or Smaller .................................................................................................................. $5
         Color Map Larger than 11X17 .............................................................................................................. $10
         Data on CD, DVD or USB Flash Drive (up to 4GB) ................................................................................ $10
         Custom Maps ................................................................................................ $40/HourActual Cost to City

1.1.020. POSTAGE
         Stamps........................................................................................................................... Actual Cost to City
         Envelopes .......................................................................................................................................... $0.25

1.1.030. OTHER FEES
         Other Costs Allowed by Law ......................................................................................... Actual Cost to City
         Records Requests* ........................................................................................................ Actual Cost to City

             *Actual Cost shall include the cost of duplicating a record, compiling a record in a form other than that
             maintained by the City, postage or any other fee reasonably related to the request for the record
             consistent with City ordinance or applicable state law.

ADMINISTRATION

FINANCE
2.1.010. MISCELLANEOUS FEES
         Returned Check Fee ............................................................................................................................. $25
         Returned Item Fee ............................................................................................................................... $10
         Printed Copy of Annual Audit Report .................................................................................................. $25
         Credit Card Surcharge (for transactions $3,000 or more) .............................. 3% of Transaction Amount

2.1.020. LATE FEES
         $10 or 1.5% (whichever is greater) per month interest charged on other receivables or any other
         unpaid obligations due to Bluffdale City that are not paid within 30 days of the date of invoice.
         *No late fee charged on balances of $10 or less.




                                                                                                                                   November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                1
BUSINESS LICENSING
2.2.010. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE FEES (PER LICENSE) ...............................................................................................
         Off Premises Beer Retailer ................................................................................................................. $600
         Restaurant Beer License .................................................................................................................... $600
         Restaurant Liquor Consumption License .......................................................................................... $600
         On Premises Beer Retailer ................................................................................................................. $600
         Other Alcoholic Beverage Licenses .................................................................................................... $600

2.2.020. BUSINESS LICENSE INSPECTIONS FOR COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING & FIRE CODES
         Up to Two Buildings and/or Two Fire Inspections ............................................................................... $50
         Each Additional Inspection .................................................................................................................. $30

2.2.030. KENNEL PERMITS (YEARLY)
         Commercial ........................................................................................................................................ $100
         Canine Hobby ....................................................................................................................................... $40

2.2.040. TEMPORARY BUSINESS
         As Part in a Sales Event 5 days or less ................................................................................................. $20
         Other Temporary Business .................................................................................................................. $45
         Solicitor/Peddler/Vendor ................................................................................................................... $115

2.2.050. BUSINESS LICENSE FEES

             Agricultural Activities ......................................................................................................................... $100
             Banks & Credit Unions ....................................................................................................................... $100
             Other Financial & Real Estate Services .............................................................................................. $100
             Construction Related Businesses ....................................................................................................... $100
             Convenience Stores ........................................................................................................................ $1,325
             Department Stores............................................................................................................................. $325
             Gas Stations .................................................................................................................................... $1,325
             Grocery Stores ................................................................................................................................ $1,325
             Hotels & Motels ................................................................................................................................. $925
             Manufacturing Business..................................................................................................................... $100
             Medical Offices & Drugstores ............................................................................................................ $100
             Mining Related Business .................................................................................................................... $100
             Mobile Home Parks ............................................................................................................................ $377
             Multiple-Family Dwelling Units........................................................................................ $325 + $17/Unit
             Other Types of Professional Offices................................................................................................... $100
             Pawnshops ......................................................................................................................................... $325
             Other Types of Retail Businesses ....................................................................................................... $100
             Retail Dwelling Units (Not Part of Multiple-Family Dwelling Units) .................................................. $325
             Restaurants ........................................................................................................................................ $100
             Other Types of Service Business ........................................................................................................ $100
             Sand & Gravel, Concrete & Other Similar Business ........................................................................ $1,325
             Shopping Malls ................................................................................................................................... $325
             Transportation & Utilities .................................................................................................................. $100

                                                                                                                                     November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                 2
              Minor Home Occupation (with Exemption) ................................................... No Fee $0 (per Utah Code)
              Major Home Occupation...................................................................................................................... $75
              Special Exception ...................................................................................... $150 per Exception Requested
              Duplicate License ................................................................................................................................. $10


                Penalty Fees for Unlicensed Business – For the first year, 100% of the license fees are due, plus 125%
                of the current business license fees due for each additional year or portion of a year.

                The City Manager or his/her designee may reduce or waive the penalty fees to be paid by a
                business operating without a license once per calendar year, for a period not to exceed one month;
                for the purpose of encouraging unlicensed businesses to properly license.

2.2.060. ADDITIONAL REGULATORY FEES
         Sexually Oriented Business ................................................................................................................ $300
         Sexually Oriented Business Employee ................................................................................................. $50

              All employees of a sexually oriented business must also obtain an ID card from the Bureau of Criminal
              Investigation and pay all applicable fees for a background check.

2.2.070. BUSINESS RELATED TAXES
         Hotel Tax……………………..The City of Bluffdale will charge the maximum Transient Room Tax pursuant
         to Utah law, currently 1%.

PUBLIC SAFETY

ALARMS

3.1.010. FALSE ALARMS PER YEAR – FIRE & POLICE
         Responding to two false alarms.................................................................................................No Charge
         Third ..................................................................................................................................................... $50
         Fourth................................................................................................................................................... $75
         Fifth Through Tenth .......................................................................................................................... $100
         In Excess of Ten ................................................................................................................................. $200

AMBULANCE

3.2.010. FEES
         Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 26-8-4(18), Administrative Rule R426-1-8-2,3, and 4, the Utah
         Department of Health establishes and orders the maximum allowable base ambulance rate for each
         fiscal year, which rate shall be the rate assessed by City of Bluffdale for ambulance service.

POLICE

3.3.010. REPORT COSTS
         Accident Report ................................................................................................................................... $13
         Photos .................................................................................................................................................. $13
                                                                                                                                       November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                   3
             Bodycam per disk ................................................................................................................................. $13
             Loss Report........................................................................................................................................... $13
             Certified Copies ...................................................................................................................................... $8
             Police Clearance* ................................................................................................................................... $8
             GRAMA Request........................................................................................... $ Per Ordinance/Actual Cost
             Sex Offender Registry .......................................................................................................................... $19

             *Must provide full name and DOB and must show valid Driver’s License or Birth Certificate.

PUBLIC WORKS

PARKS & RECREATION

4.1.010. ARENA USER FEES
         Rodeo Arena Event Cleaning Deposit ................................................................................................ $250
         Rodeo Arena Event Non-Commercial ...................................................................................... $250/Event
         Resident 4-H and Group Riding Clubs .......................................................................................No Charge
         Non-Resident 4-H and Group Riding Clubs .................................................................. $50/4-Hour Block
         Administrative Fee per Transaction .................................................................... the greater of 3% or $10

4.1.020. PAVILION USER FEES                                                                                RESIDENTS                    NON-RESIDENTS
         Half Day ..………………………………………………………………………………………….$30                                                                              $50
         Full Day …..……………………………………………………………………………….……….$50                                                                             $75
         Park Cleaning Deposit ........................................................................................................................ $100
         Administrative Fee per Transaction .................................................................... the greater of 3% or $10

                Temporary Fee Discounts – The City Manager or his/her designee is authorized to implement
                temporary fee discounts. The City Manager shall notify the City Council of any such discounts at the
                next scheduled City Council meeting following the implementation or approval of any said discounts.

4.1.030. BASEBALL DIAMOND RESERVATIONS & USER FEES*
         Tournaments .......................................................................................................... $200 per Field per Day
         ................................................................................................................................... (Includes Field Prep)
         Games ...................................................................................................................... $40 per 2 Hour Block
         Practices .....................................................................................................................................No Charge
         Leagues ............................................................................................... Contract Approved by City Council
         Administrative Fee per Transaction .................................................................... the greater of 3% or $10

4.1.040. OPEN FIELD SPACE*
         Resident Coached Recreation Team ..........................................................................................No Charge
         Leagues ............................................................................... Large Field: $50/2 Hours Monday - Saturday
         ............................................................................................. Small Field: $25/2 Hours Monday - Saturday
         Administrative Fee per Transaction .................................................................... the greater of 3% or $10


             *Fields must be reserved through City of Bluffdale prior to use


                                                                                                                                      November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                  4
4.1.050. CITY HALL AND FIRE STATION COMMUNITY ROOMS RESERVATIONS & USER FEES

                    TYPE OF USE                           RESIDENT FEE                        NON-RESIDENT FEE                    DEPOSIT
          Meetings - General                      $15 per hour; 2-hour                   $30 per hour; 2-hour                    $0
                                                  minimum                                minimum
          Meetings – General                      $15 per hour; 2-hour                   $30 per hour; 2-hour                    $200
          (with food and/or drinks)               minimum                                minimum
          Meetings – Government                   $0                                     $0                                      $0
          Entities
          Meetings – Public Schools    $0                           $0                         $0
          Special Events – 0 to 50     $25 per hour; 2-hour         $50 per hour; 2-hour       $200
          attendees                    minimum                      minimum
          Special Events – 51 to 100   $75 per hour; 2-hour         $100 per hour; 2-hour      $200
          attendees                    minimum                      minimum
          Special Events – 101 or      $150 per hour; 2-hour        $300 per hour; 2-hour      $200
          more attendees               minimum                      minimum
          Wedding Events               $150 per hour; 2-hour        $300 per hour; 2-hour      $200
                                       minimum                      minimum
          Use of Kitchen               $50                          $50                        $100
               Users are responsible and will be charged actual costs for any damages caused.
               Users are expected to clean the facility after the meeting or event.
               The deposit is refundable based on whether the facility is left clean and undamaged.
               The City reserves the right to revoke a reservation without cause.

            Administrative Fee per Transaction .................................................................... the greater of 3% or $10

STREETS

4.2.010. CONCRETE INSPECTION PERMITS
         Curb & Gutter........................................................................................... $0.26/Sq Ft. $80 Minimum Fee
         Sidewalk ................................................................................................... $0.26/Sq Ft. $80 Minimum Fee
         Driveway Approach ....................................................................................................... $80 Minimum Fee

4.2.020. ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
         Any work that is done in the City of Bluffdale right of way ............. $0.52/Linear Ft. $205 Minimum Fee
         Permit Extension* ......................................................................................................... $50 per extension
         Road Closure* .................................................................................................................... $1,050 per day

4.2.030. CASH BOND CRITERIA FOR ENCROACHMENT PERMITS
         LEVEL 1: Least Intrusive ........................................................................................................ $1,050-5,150
         Minimal excavation that does not involve asphalt, curb, or gutter. Existing utilities in area of
         excavation are low density. Traffic control is minimal and work is within the shoulder. Excavation
         distance is under 200 feet.
         LEVEL 2: Medium Intrusive ................................................................................................. $5,150-15,500
         Excavation does involve asphalt, curb, or gutter, but is the minimum City standard. Existing utilities in
         are of excavation are medium in density. Traffic control may require up to a lane shift. Excavation
         distance is greater than 200 feet, but less than 500 feet.
                                                                                                                           November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                            5
             LEVEL 3: Extensive ............................................................................................................. $15,500-31,000
             Excavation involves asphalt, curb, and gutter that is above the minimum City standard. Traffic control
             requires road closure or flag man. Existing utilities in area of excavation are high in density. May
             require special conditions for excavation. Excavation distance is greater than 500 feet.

4.2.040. STOP WORK ORDER
         Stop Work Order for No Permits ................................................................... 2 Times Regular Permit Fee
         Other Stop Work Orders .................................................................................................................... $105

4.2.050. STREET LIGHTS
         $6/month for each lot within the subdivision areas which are lit beginning from and after the date
         the lights are turned on within the area.
         $3/month for all other occupied lots.

4.2.060. STORM WATER MAINTENANCE FEE
         Residential Unit ................................................................................................................... $56.25/Month
         Commercial Lot .......................................................................................................... $12.5015.00/Month

4.2.070. OTHER FEES
         New Street Sign With or Without Post ......................................................................... Actual Cost to City
         Street Cleaning ................................................................................... $125 per Hour – Minimum 2 Hours

             *The City Manager or his/her designee is authorized to extend the allowable amount of a road
             closure on a case by case basis if deemed necessary upon the recommendation of the City Engineer
             and/or Public Works Director.

CEMETERY

4.3.010. CEMETERY FEES
         Single Plot (Resident Fee) .................................................................................................................. $500
         Single Plot (Non-Resident) .............................................................................................................. $1,000
         Burial (During Regular City Business Hours) ...................................................................................... $600
         Burial (Outside of City Business Hours) ............................................................................................. $700
         Urn/Infant/Child Burial ...................................................................................................................... $400
         Urn/Infant/Child Burial (Outside of City Business Hours) ................................................................. $500
         Cemetery Certificate Transfer Fee ..................................................................................... $10/Certificate

GARBAGE

4.4.010. MONTHLY RESIDENTIAL WASTE COLLECTION FEE
         One Trash + One Recycling Container ................................................................................... $15.2515.65
         Green Waste Container ............................................................................................................. $7.657.85
         Additional Trash Container .................................................................................................... $10.8011.10
         Additional Recycling Container .................................................................................................. $3.904.00
         Additional Green Waste Container ............................................................................................ $5.555.70



                                                                                                                             November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                             6
WATER

4.5.010. CULINARY WATER SERVICE FEES
         Commercial ................................................................................................. $30 Base Fee Per Month Plus
         Residential................................................................................................... $12 Base Fee Per Month Plus

             Normal and Moderate Drought Rates:
                                           Tier 1 $2.502.55 per 1,000 gallons...................................... 0-10,000
                                           Tier 2 $3.003.10 per 1,000 gallons.............................. 10,001-50,000
                                           Tier 3 $3.853.95 per 1,000 gallons ........................... 50,001-100,000
                                           Tier 4 $4.554.65 per 1,000 gallons ..................................... 100,000+

             Severe Drought Rates:
                                                                   Tier 1 $2.55 per 1,000 gallons...................................... 0-10,000
                                                                   Tier 2 $4.20 per 1,000 gallons.............................. 10,001-50,000
                                                                   Tier 3 $5.35 per 1,000 gallons ........................... 50,001-100,000
                                                                   Tier 4 $6.30 per 1,000 gallons ..................................... 100,000+


             Extreme Drought Rates:
                                                                   Tier 1 $2.55 per 1,000 gallons...................................... 0-10,000
                                                                   Tier 2 $5.30 per 1,000 gallons.............................. 10,001-50,000
                                                                   Tier 3 $6.75 per 1,000 gallons ........................... 50,001-100,000
                                                                   Tier 4 $7.95 per 1,000 gallons ..................................... 100,000+


4.5.020. SECONDARY WATER SERVICE FEES
         Base Fee .......................................................................................................................... $0.00 Per Month
         Rate ....................................................................................................................... $0.90 per 1,000 gallons

4.5.030. OTHER FEES
         Reduced - Quality Water Discharge Fee ............................................$6,350/ERC (0.68 gallons/minute)*
         *ERC shall be calculated using the following Water Quality Demand Index:




                                                                                                                              November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                             7
             Water Share Assessment Fees ............................................Actual Cost to City + 15% Administrative Fee
             1” Connection Fee.............................................................................................................................. $500
             2” Connection Fee.............................................................................................................................. $975
             Larger Meters.......................................................................................................................... Cost + $100
             Public Works Additional Inspections ............................................................ $50 per hour, $50 Minimum
             Hydrant Meter Conditionally Refundable Rent Deposit ........................................................ $1,0001,300
             Hydrant Meter Deposit Administrative Fee per Transaction ................................................................3%
             Hydrant Meter Rental* ............................................................................................................. $5 Per Day
             Hydrant Meter Water Use ............................... Based on Culinary Water Service at a Minimum of Tier 4
             Utility Set-up Fee ................................................................................................................................. $35
             Shut-off Second Notice ........................................................................................................................ $20
             Water/Secondary Re-Connection Fee ............................................................................................... $100

             *Water billed at Tier 4 rate.

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

PLANNING

5.1.010. CONDITIONAL USE
         Non-residential .................................................................................................................................. $800
         Residential.......................................................................................................................................... $300
         Amendment or Reconsideration of Conditional Use Permit ............................................................. $300

5.1.020. HOME OCCUPATION
         Home Occupation Reviewed by Planning Commission (Includes 1 Inspection) ............................... $550
         Additional Inspection Time (One Hour Minimum) ..................................................................... $75/hour

5.1.030. PUBLICATIONS
         General Plan Text ....................................................................................................... Copy Charges Apply
         Subdivision Ordinance ............................................................................................... Copy Charges Apply
         Zoning Ordinance ....................................................................................................... Copy Charges Apply

5.1.040. STREETS
         Dedication .......................................................................................................................................... $550
         Street Vacation .................................................................................................. $550 + All Noticing Costs

5.1.050. SUBDIVISION
         Subdivision Plat Amendments ................................................ $500 + $100/Lot, If New Lots Are Created
         Preliminary Plat Processing Fee ......................................................................................... $300 + 100/Lot
         Final Plat Processing Fee .................................................................................................. $250 + $150/Lot
         Zoning Determination Letter ............................................................................................................... $50
         Concept Plan Processing Fee ............................................................................................................. $300
         Residential Building Permit Site Plan Review on Existing Lot ............................................................ $250
         Certificate of Occupancy Review and Inspection ......................................... $75 + $75 per Re-inspection
         Lot Line Adjustment ........................................................................................................................... $200


                                                                                                                                    November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                 8
5.1.060. TEXT AMENDMENT
         Subdivision or Zoning Ordinance ....................................................................................................... $800

5.1.070. ZONING AMENDMENT
         Zoning Map ........................................................................................................................................ $800

5.1.080. GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
         Text and/or Map ................................................................................................................................ $800
           *EXEMPTION: Text, Zoning, and General Plan Amendments initiated by the Bluffdale City Mayor,
           Council, Planning Commission, or Staff shall be exempt from the above fees.

5.1.090. ANNEXATIONS
         Under Five Acres ................................................................................................................................ $200
         Over Five Acres ................................................................................................. $200 + Actual Cost to City

5.1.100. MIXED USE AND SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT ZONE DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AND APPLICATIONS
         Review of Applications or Revised Plans ............................................................ $2,250 Base + $20/Acre,
         plus any required public noticing fees.

5.1.110. DECISION FROM HEARING OFFICER
         Actual cost of hearing officer's time based on contract with City. A $1,000 retainer required. If actual
         cost is less than retainer, the difference between actual cost and retainer will be refunded to applicant.
         If actual cost is greater than retainer, applicant must pay the difference between actual cost and
         retainer before receiving hearing officer's decision.

5.1.120. DEVELOPMENT A GREEMENTS (APPLICANT INITIATED )
         New and amended development agreements ............................................................................... $2,250

5.1.130 SIGN PERMITS
        SignPermanent Signs Permits ....................................................... ≤ 2432 square feet sign face = $10050
             > 2432 square feet sign face = Building Permit Fee Based on Valuation (5.2.010) - $150 Minimum
                                                                                                                           Charge
        Temporary/Banner Signs………………………………………………………………………………………………………………$50
        Signage Text Change (change of copy)………………………………………………………………………………………….$25


5.1.1430. ..................................................................................................... OTHER FEES
         Noise Permit (temporary) .................................................................................................................. $100
         Administrative Determination ........................................................................................................... $125
         Non-Conforming Use Determination for Large Animals ..................................................................... $50
         Site Plan........................................................................................................................................... $1,250
         Temporary Use................................................................................................................................. $150*
         Public Hearing Notice Fee ....................................... $125/Hearing Plus Actual Cost of Printing & Mailing
         Outside Consultants ...................................................................................................... Actual Cost to City
         Credit Card Surcharge (for transactions $3,000 or more) .............................. 3% of Transaction Amount
           *EXEMPTION: Any person applying for a temporary use who is engaged in carrying on that use solely
           for religious, charitable, or the types of strictly non-profit purposes that are tax exempt in such
           activities under the laws of the United States and the State of Utah shall be exempt from the payment
                                                                                                                                    November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                 9
                of this fee. This fee shall not be imposed upon any person engaged in a business specifically
                exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the United States and the State of Utah.

BUILDING

5.2.010. BUILDING PERMIT FEES
         Fees charged for building permits are set forth below, based on building or structure valuation, as
         derived from the current edition of the Building Valuation Data, published by the International Code
         Council.

             *The total project value shall be determined by the Building Inspection Division based on the nature
             and scope of the project.

               Project Value Range ($)                            Building Permit Fee Base ($)                       Additional Fee ($)
               0 – 499                                            50
               500 – 1,999                                        28 for first 500                                   4 per additional 100
               2,000 – 24,999                                     83 for first 2,000                                 16 per additional 1,000
               25,000 – 49,999                                    470 for first 25,000                               12 per additional 1,000
               50,000 – 99,999                                    772 for first 50,000                               8 per additional 1,000
               100,000 – 499,999                                  1,192 for first 100,000                            6 per additional 1,000
               500,000 – 999,999                                  3,880 for first 500,000                            5 per additional 1,000
               1,000,000 and up                                   6,730 for first 1,000,000                          4 per additional 1,000

             Project valuations for these specific types of construction are established as follows:
               Basements – finished with house ............................... Valued as U Occupancy (Utility, Miscellaneous)
               Basements – finished after Certificate of Occupancy ................ Valued as the Difference Between the
               Value of U Occupancy and Unfinished Basement Classification on the ICC Valuation Publication
               Carports ........................................................................... Valued at 50% of U Occupancy Classification
               Covered Decks.................................................................................................... Valued as U Occupancy
               Uncovered Decks ................................................................................... Valued at 50% of U Occupancy
               Pole Barns with walls ......................................................................................... Valued at U Occupancy
               Pole Barns without walls........................................................................ Valued at 50% of U Occupancy
             Credit Card Surcharge (for transactions $3,000 or more) .............................. 3% of Transaction Amount

5.2.020. PLAN REVIEW SUBMITTAL FEES (APPLIED TO BUILDING PERMIT FEE IF PERMIT ISSUES, OTHERWISE NON-
             REFUNDABLE )
         Single Family Dwellings ...................................................................................................................... $300
         Additions, Garages, Barns, Remodels ................................................................................................ $100
         Commercial, Institutional, Multi-Family or Attached Dwelling Units................................................ $500
         Tenant Improvements ....................................................................................................................... $100

5.2.030. MINIMUM FEES CHARGED FOR ISSUANCES OF INDIVIDUAL PERMITS IN ADDITION TO BUILDING PERMIT FEE
         Mechanical ......................................................................................................................................... $100
         Electrical ............................................................................................................................................. $100
         Plumbing ............................................................................................................................................ $100
         Fire Sprinklers (up to 3 inspections) .................................................................................................. $500
         Solar Installation ................................................................................................................................ $100

                                                                                                                                     November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                 10
             Free-Standing Wood Stove Installation ............................................................................................... $75
             Deferred Submittal, Changes or Additions ....................................................... $75/Hour - $75 Minimum
             Sign Permits ........................................................................................................... ≤ 32 square feet = $50
             > 32 square feet = Fee Based on Valuation - $150 Minimum Charge
             Complaint Inspections (Not Life-Safety Inspections)........................................ $50/Hour - $50 Minimum
             Single-Family Dwelling Roof Conversions .............. Based on Project Valuation and Fee Chart in 5.2.010
             Single-Family Dwelling Basement Remodels ......... Based on Project Valuation and Fee Chart in 5.2.010
             Residential Decks, Without Roofs ........................................................................................................ $75
             Demolition ......................................................................................................................................... $200
             Cell Towers .................................................................................................................. Based on Valuation
             Warehouse Rack Shelving ........................................................................................... Based on Valuation

             Board of Appeals Hearings................................................................................................................. $500
             Temporary Trailer (One Year) ......................................................................................... $75 + $500 Bond
             Plan Review Fee for Identical Floor Plans, pursuant to UCA § 10-9a-510(2) .................................... $100

             Public Improvement Repair and Restoration Bond for projects where public improvements are
             potentially affected:
             New residential, commercial, institutional and industrial building permits and for pools or accessory
             structure building permits .................................................... $3,000 for each 150 linear feet of frontage
             Residential:
             1.0-Acre or Greater Lot ................................................................................................................... $5,000
             Less than 1.0-Acre Single Family Lot ............................................................................................... $5,000

             Townhome Development (per Building) ........................................................................................ $6,500
             Apartment Development (per Building) ....................................................................................... $10,500

             Landscaping Bond Fee for non-single family residential projects where landscaping is incomplete
             during inclement weather or extenuating circumstances approved by the City Planner: $300 / tree; $50
             / shrub; $0.25 / sq. ft for sod. A certified landscaping estimate may also be used as an alternate
             calculation method.

5.2.040. ONE PERCENT SURCHARGE PER BUILDING PERMIT
         Eighty-five Percent (85%)...............................................................Submitted to Utah State Government
         Fifteen Percent (15%) .........................................Retained by City for Administration of State Collection

5.2.050. STOP WORK ORDERS
         Building Without a Permit ............................................................................. 2 Times Regular Permit Fee
         Other Stop Work Orders .................................................................................................................... $105

5.2.060. OTHER INSPECTIONS AND FEES
         Plan Review Fee .............................................................................................. 65% of Building Permit Fee
         Permit Extensions ................................................................................................................................ $75
         Inspections Outside of Normal Business Hours ............................................... $100 Per Hour in Addition
                                                                                    ........................ to Permit Fee - Minimum 2 Hours
         Re-Inspection Fees ............................................................................................................................. $100
         Inspections for Which No Fee is Specifically Indicated ............................................................ $100/Hour
                                                                                              ........................................ Minimum ½ hour
                                                                                                                                     November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                11
         Additional Plan Review Required by Changes, Additions, or Revisions to Plans ....................... $75/Hour
         .................................................................................................................................... Minimum One Hour
         Site Work i.e. Grubbing, Excavating or Grading .................................... $200 + $50 Per Acre Over 1 Acre

         *Additional equipment and power apparatus will require additional fees per the Uniform
          Administrative Code, as amended and adopted by the City.

         Use of Outside Consultants for Plan Checking, Inspections, or Both .......................... Actual Cost to City

         Single Family Dwelling Landscaping Bond (in zoning districts where required) – An occupancy permit
         may be given before landscaping is completed if a bond is posted. To obtain the occupancy permit a
         cash bond will be required for front landscaping in the amount of $3,000 for parcels less than 1.5 acres
         and $5,000 for parcels totaling 1.5 acres or larger. The landscaping bond shall run with the land and
         inure to the benefit of the owner who causes the landscaping to be installed. If a bond is posted,
         landscaping shall be completed by one year from issuance of the certificate of occupancy.

           Refunds for permits issued will be limited to eighty percent (80%) of the permit costs, not later than
           180 days after the date of the payment. No refunds for plan review costs will be given if the plan
           review had been conducted.

           NOTE 1: Buildings of unusual design, excessive magnitude, or potentially hazardous exposures may,
           when deemed necessary by the Building Official, warrant an independent review by a design
           professional chosen by the Building Official. The cost of this review may be assessed in addition to
           the building permit fee.

           NOTE 2: The permit fee shall not be less than the hourly cost to the City. This cost shall include
           supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages, and fringe benefits of the employees involved, and
           the average administrative cost associated with permits of that type.
           *Upon the determination of the City Manager, building permits and inspection fees may be
           temporarily suspended following a natural disaster.

CAPITAL PROJECTS

5.3.010. IMPACT FEES – PURSUANT TO ORDINANCE
         Changes to Impact Fees will be in accordance with the Impact Fees Act Title II Chapter 36A of the
         Utah Code.

ANIMAL CONTROL

5.4.010. DOG LICENSE FEES
         Paid to Salt Lake County Pursuant to County Fee Schedule

5.4.020. ANIMAL SHELTER IMPOUND FEES
         Paid to Salt Lake County Pursuant to County Fee Schedule

5.4.030. ADOPTION FEES
         Paid to Salt Lake County Pursuant to County Fee Schedule

                                                                                                                              November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                          12
5.4.040. TRAPS
         Paid to Salt Lake County Pursuant to County Fee Schedule

5.4.050. OTHER FEES
         Paid to Salt Lake County Pursuant to County Fee Schedule


CODE ENFORCEMENT

5.5.010. OTHER FEES
         Abatement of Injurious and Noxious Real Property and Unsightly or Deleterious Objects or Structures
         $50/Person/Hour, with a Minimum of $50 plus Equipment Fees at Current Rental Rates and All Costs
         of Disposal
         Sign Impound Fee ................................................................................................................................ $25
         Re-Inspection Fee ................................................................................................................................ $50
         Graffiti Removal and Weed Mowing ................................ $50/hour/person, with $50 Minimum Charge

ENGINEERING
6.1.010. ENGINEERING FEES
         Follow-up Plan Reviews ................................................................................................ $200 plus $100/hr

             Field Engineering/Inspections & Inspection Admin ...................................................... Actual Cost + 10%
             Minimum Fee ..................................................................................................................................... $200
                   Engineering Inspection fees will be billed periodically. Preliminary acceptance will not be granted
                   until outstanding inspection fees are remitted.

             Storm Water/Low Impact Development City Standard Contestation Appeal Fee - $1,000 for up to 6
             hours of consultant fees and $200 per hour of additional time above the initial request regardless of
             time spent in the original request, plus any other costs of time and material according to the above
             schedule for staff work time in processing the appeal.

               End of warranty period inspection costs will be deducted from the warranty bond.

6.1.020. OTHER FEES
         Street Name Change Application ....................................................................................................... $200
         Record Changes (Address, Lot Orientation, Etc.) .............................................................................. $300
         Engineering Standards Booklet ............................................................................................................ $10
         Use of Outside Consultants and/or Testing Agencies .................................................. Actual Cost to City
         Credit Card Surcharge (for transactions $3,000 or more) .............................. 3% of Transaction Amount

6.1.030. LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT
         Residential............................................................................................................................................ $50
         Subdivision ........................................................................................ $100 Minimum Plus Cost of Review
         Inspections ................................................................................................................................... $75 each
         SWPPP Review and Inspection Fee ............................................................................... Actual Cost + 15%
              Single Family Home ................................................................................................................... $510
              Townhomes, Apartments, Cluster Homes ............................................................................. $1,089
                                                                                                                                    November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                                13
          Commercial ............................................................................................................................ $1,594
      SWPPP Violation Fee ............................................................................................................. $100 per day

CITY MANAGER AUTHORITY TO AMEND CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE

      The City Manager shall have authority to impose new fees, as the City Manager deems appropriate or
      necessary. Said fees shall be implemented by executive order. Any fee added by the City Manager
      under this section shall be effective as specified in executive order implementing the fee. In the regular
      City Council meeting immediately following any fee added pursuant to this section, the City Manager
      shall advise the City Council of said fee. The City Council shall then have 60 days from the date of the
      action taken by the City Manager to amend the Consolidated Fee Schedule to include the new fee.
      Should the City Council fail to amend the Consolidated Fee Schedule within the 60-day time period,
      the fee shall be void, and any fees collected pursuant to the executive order issued by the City Manager
      shall be refunded.

      The City Manager or Designee shall have the authority to waive, reduce or refund a fee in the interest
      of fairness and equity.




                                                                                                                        November 18, 2020June 9, 2021

                                                                      14
                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                              A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION

                   RESOLUTION NO. 2021-32
A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A TAX RATE FOR THE PURPOSE OF LEVYING
        TAXES WITHIN THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE FOR THE
                    FISCAL YEAR 2021-2022

        WHEREAS, the City of Bluffdale will, in accordance with law, adopt its budget for the
Fiscal Year 2021-2022; and

        WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council is required to adopt a tax rate to impose on real
property within the city; and

        WHEREAS, The Bluffdale City Council desires to adopt the certified tax rate as
calculated by the Salt Lake County Auditors office.

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1.      Tax Rate Adopted. The Bluffdale City Council does hereby set,
establish, and adopt the tax rate of __________ for operation and maintenance for the purpose of
levying taxes within the City for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022.

        Section 2.       Copy Delivered to Salt Lake County Auditor.           A copy of this
Resolution shall be delivered to the Salt Lake County Auditor.

        Section 3.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon its passage.

       PASSED AND DATED: June 09, 2021




                                               By: ________________________________
                                                   Mayor Derk P. Timothy



ATTEST:

_____________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder


Voting by the City Council:             Aye              Nay

Council Member Aston                  _____            _____
Council Member Crockett               _____            _____
Council Member Gaston                 _____            _____
Council Member Hales                  _____            _____
Council Member Kallas                 _____            _____
                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                              A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION

                               RESOLUTION NO. 2021-33

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING A TAX RATE FOR THE PURPOSE OF LEVYING
        TAXES WITHIN THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE FOR THE
                    FISCAL YEAR 2021-2022

        WHEREAS, the City of Bluffdale will, in accordance with law, adopt its budget for the
Fiscal Year 2021-2022; and

        WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council is required to adopt a tax rate to impose on real
property within the city; and

        WHEREAS, The Bluffdale City Council desires to adopt the certified tax rate as
calculated by the Utah County Auditor’s office.

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

         Section 1.      Tax Rate Adopted. The Bluffdale City Council does hereby set,
establish, and adopt the tax rate of __________ for operation and maintenance for the purpose of
levying taxes within the City for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022.

         Section 2.       Copy Delivered to Utah County Auditor. A copy of this Resolution
shall be delivered to the Utah County Auditor.

        Section 3.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon its passage.

       PASSED AND DATED: June 09, 2021.




                                               By: ________________________________
                                                   Mayor Derk P. Timothy



ATTEST:

_____________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder


Voting by the City Council:            Aye               Nay

Council Member Aston                  _____            _____
Council Member Crockett               _____            _____
Council Member Gaston                 _____            _____
Council Member Hales                  _____            _____
Council Member Kallas                 _____            _____
                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                              A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION

                                RESOLUTION NO. 2021-34

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET FOR THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021-2022

        WHEREAS the City Council has approved a tentative budget as the Governing Body of
the City of Bluffdale as required by law;

       WHEREAS the City Council is required to approve a final budget for the Fiscal Year
2021-2022; and

       WHEREAS the budget appears to be in correct and lawful form;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.       Budget Adopted. The Budget (Attachment A) is adopted as the Final
Budget for the City of Bluffdale for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022.

       Section 2.       Copy Delivered to Salt Lake County Auditor. A copy of the Budget
and Resolution shall be delivered to the Salt Lake County Auditor.

        Section 3.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon its passage and authorizes and directs the Mayor to execute and cause to be delivered the
same.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED: June 09, 2021.

                                                      CITY OF BLUFFDALE



                                                      ______________________________
                                                      Derk P. Timothy, Mayor


ATTEST:

_____________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder


Voting by the City Council:                     Aye            Nay

Council Member Aston                          _____           _____
Council Member Crockett                       _____           _____
Council Member Gaston                         _____           _____
Council Member Hales                          _____           _____
Council Member Kallas                         _____           _____
Attachment A
   Budget
City of Bluffdale
Annual Budget

 Fiscal Year Ending
   June 30, 2022
                      City of Bluffdale, Utah
                           Annual Budget
                   Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 2022

                         Table of Contents
                                                      Page

General Fund Revenues                                   5
General Fund Expenditures By Department Summary         6
General Fund Expenditures By Department Detail        7-24
Class C Roads                                          25
Bluffdale Old West Days                                26
Bluffdale Arts                                         27
Bluffdale Pageant                                      28
Bluffdale Rodeo                                        29
Arena Use Committee                                    30
Jordan Crossing CRA                                    31
Eastern Bluffdale EDA                                  32
Gateway RDA                                            33
Jordan Narrows EDA                                     34
Special Improvement Fund                               35
Parks Impact Fees                                      36
Public Safety Impact Fees                              37
Roads & Bridges Impact Fees                            38
Storm Drain Impact Fees                                39
Capital Projects Fund                                 40-41
Water Operations Fund                                  42
Water Impact Fees                                      43
Local Building Authority                               44
                                                                           THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE
                                                                                  2222 West 14400 South
                                                                                   Bluffdale, Utah 84065
                                                                                   Phone (801) 254-2200
                                                                                      Fax (801) 253-3270



Bluffdale Fiscal Year 2022 Budget

Bluffdale has been experiencing significant growth for the last several years and we are expecting the
City will continue to grow in the coming fiscal year but that the growth will be at a slower rate than the
last few years. The proposed budget reflects the challenges and needs caused by this growth while
protecting the investment in existing infrastructure, facilities, and amenities. The City Council has
identified areas where the City should focus its resources in order to provide our citizens with the
services and amenities they are requesting. Some highlights of the budget are as follows:

Conservative Revenue Estimates
We conservatively estimate a slight increase in General Fund revenues for Fiscal Year 2022 (“FY2022”).
This increase is primarily attributable to normal increases in sales tax collections and charges for
services as a result of the current population growth. Property taxes are projected to be flat as business
related property taxes on equipment have not yet returned to pre-pandemic levels. We also are
projecting a decrease in building permits and other development-related fees as compared to the prior
year’s revenue. Some of our revenue streams are continuing to trend upward and, overall, we are
expecting these increases to offset the decreases in certain areas.

Focus on Public Safety
One of the core functions of the City is to provide both fire and police services to our residents.
Bluffdale’s rapid growth has increased demands on our police and fire departments. Those
departments continue to receive significant increases in funding. The City Council has authorized
appropriate incentives to attract and retain personnel. They have also authorized the acquisition of
vehicles and equipment, as needed, to allow the police officers and firefighters to perform their duties.

Public Works
The growth continues to increase the number of road miles in the City. These additional roadways
require maintenance and snow removal. The water infrastructure continues to increase to serve the
population and commercial growth. Additional personnel and equipment are included in the budget
to assure that these assets are properly maintained and repaired.

To support the growth the City has been experiencing over the past 9 years, our parks, streets, and water
infrastructure have increased significantly. During this time, the City has hired additional personnel
and purchased additional equipment to ensure that it is able to properly maintain and care for these
additional assets. With these additions the City has outgrown its current public works facilities. The
public works building is no longer adequate to provide space for personnel, vehicle maintenance, or
vehicle storage and protection. The City has been actively looking for a location to construct a new
public works building and attendant storage structures for the last few years and believes that replacing
the public works building has become critical. Replacing the public works building is the most
important capital project planned for FY2022. A suitable location has been found and the FY2022 budget
includes amounts for purchasing the land and building the facilities. The budget also includes proceeds
from bonds that the City is intending to issue to pay for these. The City is projecting adequate revenue
to pay the principle and interest on the bonds in the future years as those payments are due.

The City needs to build an additional water tank on the west side of the City to adequately service Zone
2. The tank is planned to be built in future years, but a suitable location at the correct elevation has
been found. The budget includes the amount necessary to purchase the land for that future tank.

As the east side of the City has continued to grow, the need for secondary water has increased. The City
has previously purchased the land for an irrigation reservoir and a future culinary water tank. The City
began construction on the irrigation reservoir in FY2021. The FY2022 budget includes the amounts
necessary to complete the secondary water reservoir and the needed transmission lines to connect the
reservoir to the existing secondary water infrastructure.

New housing developers will also be finishing several parks and trails as part of their projects. The
addition of these parks and trails requires hiring additional parks personnel and purchasing additional
equipment to maintain our parks and trails.

General Fund Balance
For FY2022, we expect to have a slight increase in the ending fund balance. In accordance with state
law, City will still have a fund balance of 22 percent (22%) of its expenditures.
                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                 GENERAL FUND REVENUES
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                                  06/30/2020            06/30/2021               05/31/2021          06/30/2021      BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                                   ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET         ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION        DEPT REQ                 APPROVED
                 TAXES
 10-31-11000     CURRENT YEAR PROPERTY TAXES-SL                  1,993,961                 1,550,628         1,810,075           1,810,075            1,500,000               1,500,000
 10-31-31000     GENERAL SALES & USE TAXES                       2,760,160                 2,518,400         2,535,619           3,381,000            3,381,000               3,381,000
 10-31-71000     FEE IN LIEU & PERS. PROP. TAX                           -                   300,000                 -                   -              300,000                 300,000
 10-31-76000     CABLE TV                                           90,087                   100,000            88,805             107,000               90,000                  90,000
 10-31-81000     FRANCHISE TAXES                                 1,187,542                 1,230,000         1,130,380           1,356,000            1,356,000               1,356,000
 10-31-91000     TELECOM TAX                                       154,153                   139,000            99,177             119,000              119,000                 119,000
 10-31-92000     ROOM TAX                                            1,470                     1,000             1,875               1,875                2,000                   2,000

 10-31-_____     TOTAL TAXES                                    6,187,372                  5,839,028         5,665,931           6,774,950            6,748,000              6,748,000
                                                                        -                          -                 -                   -
                 LICENSE & PERMITS
 10-32-11000     BUSINESS LICENSES                                  68,689                   62,000             53,751              53,751               45,000                  45,000
 10-32-21100     BUILDING PERMITS                                1,034,055                  740,000          1,599,456           1,745,000            1,140,000               1,140,000
 10-32-21700     STATE SURCHARGES                                    7,956                   10,000             12,563              14,000               10,000                  10,000
 10-32-26100     ENCROACHMENTS & LAND DISTURB.                      36,052                   30,000             26,544              29,000               30,000                  30,000
 10-32-29500     DEVELOPMENT FEES                                  125,623                  100,000             63,066              69,000               50,000                  50,000
 10-32-29810     MAPS & COPIES                                         240                        -                119                   -                    -                       -

 10-32-_____     TOTAL LICENSES & PERMITS                       1,272,614                   942,000          1,755,499           1,910,751            1,275,000              1,275,000
                                                                        -                         -                  -                   -
                 INTERGOVERNMENTAL REVENUES
 10-33-18000     GRANTS                                             8,100                    10,000                 -                   -                10,000                 10,000
 10-33-40000     CARES ACT GRANT                                  328,264                   434,000           434,220             434,220                     -                      -
 10-33-58000     LIQUOR FUND ALLOTMENT                              9,907                    10,000            12,061              13,000                10,000                 10,000
 10-33-45000     EMPG GRANT                                         2,500                    10,000             6,000               7,000                10,000                 10,000

 10-33-_____     TOTAL INTERGOVERNMENTAL                          348,771                   464,000           452,281             454,220               30,000                  30,000
                                                                        -                         -                 -                   -
                 CHARGES FOR SERVICE
 10-34-11000     GENERAL GOVERNMENT SERVICES                        5,645                     1,000             1,305                1,000                1,000                   1,000
 10-34-12000     INSPECTION FEES                                   95,908                   100,000           187,070              204,000              100,000                 100,000
 10-34-33000     STREET LIGHTING CHARGES                          339,081                   350,000           335,460              366,000              340,000                 340,000
 10-34-36000     STORM WATER CHARGES                              311,965                   322,000           306,912              335,000              315,000                 315,000
 10-34-40000     AMBULANCE                                        152,997                   165,000           138,228              165,000              165,000                 165,000
 10-34-43000     GARBAGE COLLECTION                               827,240                   903,000           856,925            1,028,000            1,064,000               1,064,000
 10-34-44000     GREEN WASTE COLLECTION                            88,277                    85,000            85,131               93,000               93,000                  93,000
 10-34-72300     SALE OF ASSETS                                     6,470                    10,000            10,735               12,000               10,000                  10,000
 10-34-73200     TOWN DAYS                                          2,006                         -             6,155                7,000                    -                       -
 10-34-81000     SALE OF CEMETERY LOTS                                510                         -                 -                    -                    -                       -
 10-34-83000     BURIAL FEES                                        5,200                     5,000             6,400                7,000                5,000                   5,000

 10-34-_____     TOTAL CHARGES FOR SERVICE                      1,835,299                  1,941,000         1,934,320           2,218,000            2,093,000              2,093,000
                                                                        -                          -                 -                   -
                 FINES AND FORFEITURES
 10-35-10000     COURT FINES                                      245,164                   260,000           310,073             338,000               300,000                300,000
 10-35-10001     MISCELLANEOUS                                      6,134                     1,000             8,870              10,000                 1,000                  1,000

 10-35-_____     TOTAL FINES AND FORFEITURES                      251,299                   261,000           318,943             348,000              301,000                 301,000
                                                                        -                         -                 -                   -
                 MISCELLANEOUS REVENUES
 10-36-11000     INTEREST INCOME                                   73,884                    50,000           188,921              50,000               50,000                  50,000
 10-36-12000     FIRE FEES                                         67,979                   250,000           191,839             191,839              200,000                 200,000
 10-36-20200     FACILITIES RENTAL                                  2,990                     4,000             3,345               4,000                4,000                   4,000
 10-36-20300     RECREATION EVENTS                                    225                     5,000                 -                   -               11,000                  11,000
 10-36-91000     MISCELLANEOUS REVENUE                            110,151                   195,000           179,105             175,000              175,000                 175,000
 10-36-_____     TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS REVENUES                     255,230                   504,000           563,210             420,839              440,000                 440,000
                                                                        -                         -                 -                   -

                 CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS
 10-39-10000     REAPPROPRIATION OF FUND BAL.                           -                   152,358                 -                 -                       -                      -
 10-39-15000     ADMIN FEE BLUFFDALE EDA                          280,008                   464,000           425,333             464,000               477,878                477,878
 10-39-15100     ADMIN FEE GATEWAY RDA                             37,008                    43,000            39,417              43,000                43,000                 43,000
 10-39-15200     ADMIN FEE JORDAN NARROWS EDA                     210,000                   310,000           284,163             310,000               390,000                390,000
 10-39-17000     TRANSFER FROM RODEO FUND                               -                    40,000            36,667                   -                     -                      -

 10-39-_____     TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS                527,016                  1,009,358           785,580             817,000              910,878                910,878
                 TOTAL GENERAL FUND REVENUES         $         10,677,601    $            10,960,386   $    11,475,763   $      12,943,760   $       11,797,878   $         11,797,878
                                                                      -                          -                 -                                          -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                        Page 5                                                          City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020            06/30/2021               05/31/2021           06/30/2021        BUDGET FY2022          BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET         ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION          DEPT REQ               APPROVED
 10-410-_____     LEGISLATIVE                                                            5,000                         -                 -                    -                    -                       -
 10-411-_____     CITY COUNCIL                                                          99,207                   128,700            64,034               70,100              120,500                 120,500
 10-413-_____     MAYOR                                                                 29,848                    36,300            23,093               25,700               40,300                  40,300
 10-414-_____     ADMINISTRATION                                                       928,573                 1,183,700           923,365            1,007,500            1,350,100               1,350,100
 10-415-_____     LEGAL                                                                149,352                   189,700           155,206              169,200              195,300                 195,300
 10-416-_____     FACILITIES                                                           551,353                   575,400           502,521              548,200              570,700                 570,700
 10-418-_____     PLANNING                                                             279,658                   325,000           238,595              283,300              396,000                 396,000
 10-419-_____     RISK MANAGEMENT                                                      104,682                   110,000           108,300              108,800              113,500                 113,500
 10-421-_____     COURT                                                                241,018                   273,300           237,974              259,700              277,300                 277,300
 10-422-_____     FIRE DEPARTMENT                                                    1,746,738                 2,425,750         2,158,740            2,257,698            2,146,850               2,146,850
 10-423-_____     LAW ENFORCEMENT                                                    1,961,315                 2,267,556         2,171,714            2,232,556            2,062,500               2,062,500
 10-424-_____     BUILDING                                                             224,254                   294,530           294,190              321,000              346,280                 346,280
 10-425-_____     ANIMAL CONTROL / CODE ENFORCEMENT                                    178,627                   207,800           161,548              176,200              223,300                 223,300
 10-441-_____     STREETS                                                              607,257                   708,800           557,769              608,500              865,200                 865,200
 10-442-_____     SANITATION                                                           642,215                   716,000           587,673              720,009              814,000                 814,000
 10-445-_____     ENGINEERING                                                          559,220                   553,850           468,165              510,500              599,850                 599,850
 10-451-_____     PARKS & RECREATION                                                   738,755                   929,000           756,336              825,200            1,373,500               1,373,500
 10-456-_____     RECREATION & CULTURE                                                  33,604                    35,000            26,144               31,500               33,000                  33,000
 10-901-_____     TRANSFERS, LOANS & RESERVES                                        1,578,000                         -                 -            2,788,097              269,698                 269,698

                10 TOTAL GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES                       $          10,658,678   $            10,960,386   $     9,435,365    $      12,943,760 $         11,797,878   $         11,797,878
                                                                                           -                         -                 -                    -                      -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $              18,923   $                   -     $     2,040,398    $               (0) $                0   $                  0



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                 1,601,740                 1,620,663         1,620,663            1,620,663 $          2,408,760 $             2,408,760
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                  18,923                         -         2,040,398              788,097              192,198                 192,198
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                1,620,663                 1,620,663         3,661,061            2,408,760 $          2,600,958 $             2,600,958

                                                      GENERAL FUND               Cash Balance Percentage: State law limit between 5% to 25%              18.61%               22.05%                 22.05%

                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                  Other Funds:                                                                                                                                                                             -
                  CLASS C ROADS
                  OLD WEST DAYS
                  BLUFFDALE ARTS ADVISORY BOARD
                  MISS BLUFFDALE PAGEANT
                  RODEO FUND
                  ARENA COMMITTEE
                  JORDAN CROSSING CRA
                  EASTERN BLUFFDALE EDA
                  GATEWAY RDA
                  JORDAN NARROWS EDA
                  SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT FUND GATEWAY (SID)
                  PARK IMPACT FEES
                  PUBLIC SAFETY IMPACT FEES
                  ROADS & BRIDGES IMPACT FEES
                  STORM DRAIN IMPACT FEES
                  CAPITAL PROJECTS
                  WATER OPERATIONS FUND
                  WATER IMPACT FEES
                  LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                            Page 6                                                           City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 CITY COUNCIL
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                             06/30/2020           06/30/2021            05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022           BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                              ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET      ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                APPROVED

 10-411-12000    PART TIME SALARIES AND WAGES                 49,225                 43,200           39,600             43,200              81,000                 81,000
 10-411-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            11,983                  5,000            4,327              5,000               9,000                  9,000
 10-411-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                    2,135                  3,000            2,135              2,300               3,000                  3,000
 10-411-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                    180                  5,000              617                700               5,000                  5,000
 10-411-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                               4,873                  5,000            3,303              3,600               5,000                  5,000
 10-411-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                     15,982                 15,000           14,033             15,300              15,000                 15,000
 10-411-33000    COVID-19 ANTIBODY TEST KITS                  13,670                 50,000                -                  -                   -                      -
 10-411-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                 1,159                  2,500               19                  -               2,500                  2,500
 10-411-74000    EQUIPMENT                                         -                      -                -                  -                   -                      -


 10-411-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES             $             99,207   $            128,700   $       64,034   $         70,100   $         120,500   $            120,500
                                                                   -                      -                -                  -                   -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                  Page 7                                                     City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 MAYOR
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                             06/30/2020           06/30/2021           05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022           BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                              ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                APPROVED

 10-413-12000    PART TIME SALARIES AND WAGES                 18,000                18,000           16,500             18,000              20,000                 20,000
 10-413-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                             4,601                 5,300            4,203              5,300               5,300                  5,300
 10-413-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                    2,000                 2,000            2,000              2,000               2,000                  2,000
 10-413-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                    532                 3,000                -                  -               3,000                  3,000
 10-413-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                                   7                   500                -                  -               2,500                  2,500
 10-413-28000    TELEPHONE                                       715                 1,000              390                400               1,000                  1,000
 10-413-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                        792                 1,000                -                  -               1,000                  1,000
 10-413-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                 3,201                 5,500                -                  -               5,500                  5,500
 10-413-74000    EQUIPMENT                                         -                     -                -                  -                   -                      -


 10-413-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES             $             29,848   $            36,300   $       23,093   $         25,700   $          40,300   $             40,300
                                                                   -                     -                -                  -                   -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                  Page 8                                                    City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 ADMINISTRATION
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                              06/30/2020           06/30/2021              05/31/2021         06/30/2021      BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                               ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET        ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION        DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-414-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                           429,270                 581,000           443,453            483,800               666,000                666,000
 10-414-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            180,886                 213,000           172,874            188,600               248,000                248,000
 10-414-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                     5,388                   4,000             6,207              6,800                 4,000                  4,000
 10-414-22000    PUBLIC NOTICES                                14,816                  15,000            12,029             13,100                15,000                 15,000
 10-414-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                   4,877                  14,000            15,105             16,500                14,000                 14,000
 10-414-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                               26,178                  54,200            15,251             16,600                54,200                 54,200
 10-414-28000    TELEPHONE                                      1,495                   2,500             1,105              1,200                 2,500                  2,500
 10-414-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                     132,885                 170,000           144,726            157,900               157,900                157,900
 10-414-32000    HISTORICAL PRESERV. COMMITTEE                    300                   1,000                 -                  -                 1,000                  1,000
 10-414-33000    EMERGENCY PREPARATION                          5,233                   7,000             3,807              4,200                 7,000                  7,000
 10-414-34000    CERT                                           4,218                   2,000             1,989              2,200                 5,500                  5,500
 10-414-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                100,490                 120,000           106,752            116,500               120,000                120,000
 10-414-62000    PRIMARY AND GENERAL ELECTION                  22,537                       -                66                100                25,000                 25,000
 10-414-74000    EQUIPMENT                                          -                       -                 -                  -                30,000                 30,000


 10-414-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES              $            928,573   $            1,183,700   $      923,365   $       1,007,500   $        1,350,100   $          1,350,100
                                                                    -                        -                -                   -                    -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                   Page 9                                                        City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 LEGAL
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                              06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021          06/30/2021      BUDGET FY2022           BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                               ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION        DEPT REQ                APPROVED

 10-415-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                            67,460               72,000           62,047              67,700               76,000                 76,000
 10-415-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                             30,748               32,000           27,141              29,600               35,000                 35,000
 10-415-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                     5,515                5,500            2,308               2,500                5,500                  5,500
 10-415-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                   1,804                5,000             (187)               (200)               5,000                  5,000
 10-415-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                                   44                3,000            2,236               2,400                2,000                  2,000
 10-415-28000    TELEPHONE                                        867                1,200              650                 700                  800                    800
 10-415-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                      42,898               70,000           55,412              60,400               60,000                 60,000
 10-415-31500    APPEALS AND VARIANCE HEARINGS                      -                    -            5,600               6,100               10,000                 10,000
 10-415-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                     17                1,000                -                   -                1,000                  1,000
 10-415-74000    EQUIPMENT                                          -                    -                -                   -                    -                      -


 10-415-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES              $            149,352   $          189,700   $      155,206    $        169,200    $         195,300   $            195,300
                                                                    -                    -                -                   -                    -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                               Page 10                                                        City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 FACILITIES
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                          06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                           ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-416-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                     7,251               10,000            3,123              3,400               10,000                 10,000
 10-416-26100    BUILDING & GROUNDS MAINT.                 43,807               40,000           40,773             44,500               40,000                 40,000
 10-416-27100    UTILITIES                                 30,747               40,000           30,702             33,500               40,000                 40,000
 10-416-27200    UTILITIES-CITY HALL                       22,886               30,000           22,475             24,500               25,000                 25,000
 10-416-27300    UTILITIES-FIRE NO.2                       20,101               25,000           15,679             17,100               25,000                 25,000
 10-416-28000    TELEPHONE                                 20,712               20,000           19,236             21,000               20,000                 20,000
 10-416-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                   1,570                5,000                -                  -                5,000                  5,000
 10-416-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                276                  500              196                200                  500                    500
 10-416-74000    EQUIPMENT                                      -                    -                -                  -                    -                      -
 10-416-99000    LEASE PAYMENT TO LBA                     404,004              404,900          370,337            404,000              405,200                405,200


 10-416-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES          $            551,353   $          575,400   $      502,521   $        548,200   $         570,700    $            570,700
                                                                -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                           Page 11                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 PLANNING
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                             06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                              ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-418-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                          170,607              182,000          156,665            170,900              247,000                247,000
 10-418-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            85,519               93,000           72,263             78,800              109,000                109,000
 10-418-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                    3,867                6,000            3,178              3,500                6,000                  6,000
 10-418-22000    PUBLIC NOTICES                                3,067                3,000            2,303              2,500                3,000                  3,000
 10-418-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                  2,568                7,500              401                400                7,500                  7,500
 10-418-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                               4,371                4,000            1,268              1,400                4,000                  4,000
 10-418-28000    TELEPHONE                                       780                1,500              650                700                1,500                  1,500
 10-418-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                      8,681               25,000            1,764             25,000               15,000                 15,000
 10-418-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                   199                3,000              103                100                3,000                  3,000
 10-418-74000    EQUIPMENT                                         -                    -                -                  -                    -                      -


 10-418-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES             $            279,658   $          325,000   $      238,595   $        283,300   $         396,000    $            396,000
                                                                   -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                              Page 12                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 RISK MANAGEMENT
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                               06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                                ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-419-31500    EMPLOYEE DRUG TESTING                           2,529                3,000              739                800                3,500                  3,500
 10-419-51000    INSURANCE - GEN LIAB &PROPERTY                102,153              107,000          107,561            108,000              110,000                110,000


 10-419-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES               $            104,682   $          110,000   $      108,300   $        108,800   $         113,500    $            113,500
                                                                     -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                Page 13                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 COURT
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                             06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                              ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-421-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                           93,316               99,000           85,228             93,000              101,000                101,000
 10-421-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            39,271               45,000           34,550             37,700               46,000                 46,000
 10-421-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                       76                1,000               49                100                1,000                  1,000
 10-421-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                  1,384                2,000                -                  -                2,000                  2,000
 10-421-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                               1,550                2,500            3,693              4,000                2,500                  2,500
 10-421-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                           80                2,500                -                  -                2,500                  2,500
 10-421-26000    STATE SURCHARGES                             90,178              100,000          107,320            117,100              100,000                100,000
 10-421-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                     15,010               18,000            6,884              7,500               19,000                 19,000
 10-421-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                   153                1,300              249                300                1,300                  1,300
 10-421-74000    EQUIPMENT                                         -                2,000                -                  -                2,000                  2,000


 10-421-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES             $            241,018   $          273,300   $      237,974   $        259,700   $         277,300    $            277,300
                                                                   -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                              Page 14                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 FIRE DEPARTMENT
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                             06/30/2020           06/30/2021           05/31/2021          06/30/2021      BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                              ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION        DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-422-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                          140,694                94,000           84,774               92,500              107,000                 107,000
 10-422-12000    PART TIME SALARIES AND WAGES                950,868             1,160,500          918,234            1,001,700            1,299,000               1,299,000
 10-422-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                           188,141               185,000          122,001              133,100              171,000                 171,000
 10-422-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                    2,429                 2,100              341                  400                2,600                   2,600
 10-422-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                  5,861                13,500            4,859                5,300               15,000                  15,000
 10-422-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                               1,217                 4,000            3,383                4,000                3,500                   3,500
 10-422-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                       59,710                71,500           88,225               88,225               70,000                  70,000
 10-422-26000    UNIFORMS                                          -                55,500           60,113               60,113               45,000                  45,000
 10-422-27000    SHOP CHARGES                                 74,123                70,000           64,838               70,700               51,500                  51,500
 10-422-28000    TELEPHONE                                    10,728                10,000            8,634                9,400               16,000                  16,000
 10-422-30000    VECC                                          6,633                15,000           15,137               15,000               17,250                  17,250
 10-422-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                    134,590               176,000          208,860              208,860               55,000                  55,000
 10-422-XXXXX    WILDLAND FIRE SERVICES                            -                     -                -                    -              180,000                 180,000
 10-422-48100    HEALTH AND SAFETY                           120,676               100,000           94,591              100,000               68,000                  68,000
 10-422-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                 1,961                 3,150            2,690                2,900                3,000                   3,000
 10-422-74000    EQUIPMENT                                    49,108               465,500          482,060              465,500               43,000                  43,000


 10-422-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES             $          1,746,738   $         2,425,750   $     2,158,740   $       2,257,698   $        2,146,850   $          2,146,850
 10-420-_____                                                      -                     -                 -                   -                    -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                              Page 15                                                         City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 LAW ENFORCEMENT
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                       06/30/2020            06/30/2021           05/31/2021          06/30/2021      BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                        ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION        DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-423-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                          4,994                12,000             7,177               7,800               12,000                  12,000
 10-423-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                   3,383                 5,000             2,156               2,400                5,000                   5,000
 10-423-27000    SHOP CHARGES                            88,213                95,000            59,303              64,700               95,000                  95,000
 10-423-28000    TELEPHONE                                6,722                 6,500             6,057               6,600                6,500                   6,500
 10-423-29000    D.A.R.E. PROGRAM                         2,703                 4,000             1,559               1,700                4,000                   4,000
 10-423-31400    PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                1,699,178             1,945,056         1,908,150           1,945,056            1,920,000               1,920,000
 10-423-74000    EQUIPMENT                              156,122               200,000           187,311             204,300               20,000                  20,000


 10-423-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES       $          1,961,315    $         2,267,556   $     2,171,714   $       2,232,556   $        2,062,500   $          2,062,500
                                                             -                      -                 -                   -                    -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                         Page 16                                                         City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 BUILDING
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                             06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                              ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-424-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                           92,798              174,000          140,439            153,200              189,000                189,000
 10-424-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            44,120               63,000           44,152             48,200               64,000                 64,000
 10-424-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                      257                  750              145                200                1,000                  1,000
 10-424-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                    503                2,500              360                400                2,500                  2,500
 10-424-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                               3,626                6,500              810                900                4,000                  4,000
 10-424-27000    SHOP CHARGES                                  1,218                2,000            3,236              3,500                5,000                  5,000
 10-424-28000    TELEPHONE                                       325                  780              455                500                  780                    780
 10-424-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                     74,393               35,000           58,146             63,400               70,000                 70,000
 10-424-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                 7,015               10,000           46,447             50,700               10,000                 10,000
 10-424-74000    EQUIPMENT                                         -                    -                -                  -                    -                      -


 10-424-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES             $            224,254   $          294,530   $      294,190   $        321,000   $         346,280    $            346,280
                                                                   -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                              Page 17                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 ANIMAL CONTROL / CODE ENFORCEMENT
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                             06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                              ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-425-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                           32,825               41,000           35,205             38,400               52,000                 52,000
 10-425-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                             9,670               18,500           10,384             11,300               17,000                 17,000
 10-425-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                        -                  300                -                  -                  300                    300
 10-425-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                      -                1,000                -                  -                1,000                  1,000
 10-425-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                                 204                  500                -                  -                  500                    500
 10-425-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                          887                1,000               58                100                1,000                  1,000
 10-425-27000    SHOP CHARGES                                  1,637                2,000            1,786              1,900                3,000                  3,000
 10-425-28000    TELEPHONE                                       580                1,000              476                500                1,000                  1,000
 10-425-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                    132,824              142,000          113,638            124,000              147,000                147,000
 10-425-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                     -                  500                -                  -                  500                    500
 10-425-74000    EQUIPMENT                                         -                    -                -                  -                    -                      -


 10-425-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES             $            178,627   $          207,800   $      161,548   $        176,200   $         223,300    $            223,300
                                                                   -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                              Page 18                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 STREETS
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                              06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                               ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-441-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                           224,940              256,500          212,308            231,600              344,000                344,000
 10-441-12000    TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES                           22,396               15,000            9,728             10,600               31,000                 31,000
 10-441-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            103,663              110,500           88,377             96,400              149,000                149,000
 10-441-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                       760                2,000              860                900                3,000                  3,000
 10-441-22000    PUBLIC NOTICES                                     -                  300                -                  -                  300                    300
 10-441-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                   3,780                8,000              150                200               11,000                 11,000
 10-441-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                                  943                7,000            4,205              4,600                5,000                  5,000
 10-441-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                         6,533               10,000            2,190              2,400               10,000                 10,000
 10-441-27000    SHOP CHARGES                                  74,200               75,000           54,319             59,300               75,000                 75,000
 10-441-28000    TELEPHONE                                      1,876                2,500            2,341              2,600                3,900                  3,900
 10-441-29000    STREET LIGHTING                               78,994               85,000           91,520             99,800               85,000                 85,000
 10-441-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                       2,671               22,500            5,513              6,000               22,500                 22,500
 10-441-41000    ROAD MAINTENANCE                              74,025               90,000           82,758             90,300              110,000                110,000
 10-441-43000    RENT OFFICE SPACE                                  -                9,000                -                  -                    -                      -
 10-441-48100    PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT                  3,469                5,500            3,339              3,600                5,500                  5,500
 10-441-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                  6,620                5,000              162                200                5,000                  5,000
 10-441-74000    EQUIPMENT                                      2,389                5,000                -                  -                5,000                  5,000


 10-441-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES              $            607,257   $          708,800   $      557,769   $        608,500   $         865,200    $            865,200
                                                                    -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                               Page 19                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 SANITATION
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                         06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                          ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-442-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                642,215              716,000          587,673            720,009              814,000                814,000
                                                                                                                                                                    -

 10-442-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES         $            642,215   $          716,000   $      587,673   $        720,009   $         814,000    $            814,000
                                                               -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                          Page 20                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 ENGINEERING
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                              06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                               ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-445-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                           328,836              319,000          276,401            301,500              352,000                352,000
 10-445-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            140,932              120,000          104,361            113,800              138,000                138,000
 10-445-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                    13,388               16,500           10,117             11,000               14,000                 14,000
 10-445-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                   7,070               12,000            3,253              3,500               12,000                 12,000
 10-445-23200    PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT                    624                  650              389                400                  650                    650
 10-445-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                                2,978               10,000            5,745              6,300                6,000                  6,000
 10-445-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                         4,560                2,000              246                300                2,000                  2,000
 10-445-27000    SHOP CHARGES                                   6,761                7,200            6,711              7,300                8,700                  8,700
 10-445-28000    TELEPHONE                                      4,705                5,000            3,880              4,200                5,000                  5,000
 10-445-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                      33,470               30,000           29,365             32,000               30,000                 30,000
 10-445-32000    DEVELOPMENT INSPECTIONS                       15,293               30,000           27,103             29,600               30,000                 30,000
 10-445-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                    603                1,500              596                600                1,500                  1,500
 10-445-74000    EQUIPMENT                                          -                    -                -                  -                  -                      -


 10-445-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES              $            559,220   $          553,850   $      468,165   $        510,500   $         599,850    $            599,850
                                                                    -                    -                -                  -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                               Page 21                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 PARKS & RECREATION
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                              06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                               ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-451-11000    SALARIES AND WAGES                           281,210              328,500          241,029            262,900              494,000                494,000
 10-451-12000    PART TIME SALARIES & WAGES                    33,271               38,000           36,685             40,000              121,000                121,000
 10-451-12100    TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES                            2,774                    -                -                  -                    -                      -
 10-451-13000    EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                            119,166              128,500           93,648            102,200              247,000                247,000
 10-451-21000    BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                     5,321               10,000            5,421              5,900               10,000                 10,000
 10-451-23000    EDUCATION, TRAINING & TRAVEL                   9,312               12,000            2,300              2,500               12,000                 12,000
 10-451-24000    OFFICE SUPPLIES                                5,757                8,500            2,720              3,000                8,500                  8,500
 10-451-25000    SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                         5,917                7,000              231                300                7,000                  7,000
 10-451-26100    BUILDINGS & GROUNDS MAINT.                   154,504              100,000          135,040            147,300              140,000                140,000
 10-451-27000    SHOP CHARGES                                  24,086               35,000           23,974             26,200               30,000                 30,000
 10-451-28000    TELEPHONE                                      2,385                4,000            1,808              2,000                4,000                  4,000
 10-451-31000    PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                      88,351              105,000           85,741             93,500              112,000                112,000
 10-451-45400    WATER                                              -              130,000          119,163            130,000              130,000                130,000
 10-451-48100    PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT                  4,187                6,500            3,729              4,100                7,000                  7,000
 10-451-61000    MISCELLANEOUS                                    788                1,000               47                100                1,000                  1,000
 10-451-64000    OTHER RECREATION EVENTS                            -                    -                -                  -               40,000                 40,000
 10-451-74000    EQUIPMENT                                      1,726               15,000            4,800              5,200               10,000                 10,000


 10-451-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES              $            738,755   $          929,000   $      756,336   $        825,200   $        1,373,500   $          1,373,500
                                                                    -                    -                -                  -                    -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                               Page 22                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 RECREATION & CULTURE
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                        06/30/2020           06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021     BUDGET FY2022           BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                         ACTUAL FY2020      CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION       DEPT REQ                APPROVED

 10-456-64000    OTHER RECREATION EVENTS                  3,582               10,000            5,919              6,500                   -                      -
 10-456-65000    FLOAT                                   10,022                5,000              225              5,000              13,000                 13,000
 10-456-66000    SENIOR CENTER FEE                       20,000               20,000           20,000             20,000              20,000                 20,000


 10-456-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES        $             33,604   $           35,000   $       26,144   $         31,500   $          33,000   $             33,000
                                                              -                    -                -                  -                   -                      -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                         Page 23                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                 TRANSFERS, LOANS & RESERVES
 ACCOUNT         ACCOUNT                               06/30/2020            06/30/2021             05/31/2021           06/30/2021      BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER          TITLE                                ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET       ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION        DEPT REQ                 APPROVED

 10-901-10000    CONTRIBUTION CAPITAL PROJ FUND               1,500,000                       -                  -           2,000,000                  -                      -
 10-901-16000    CONTRIBUTION TO OLD WEST DAYS                   40,000                       -                  -                   -               40,000                 40,000
 10-901-17000    CONTRIBUTION TO BAAB                            15,000                       -                  -                   -               15,000                 15,000
 10-901-18000    CONTRIBUTION TO MISS BLUFFDALE                   7,500                       -                  -                   -                7,500                  7,500
 10-901-19000    CONTRIBUTION TO RODEO                           15,500                       -                  -                   -               15,000                 15,000
 10-901-21000    CONTRIBUTION TO ARENA USE                            -                       -                  -                   -                  -                      -
 10-901-20000    NON-OPERATING FUNDS TRANSFER                         -                       -                  -                   -                  -                      -
 10-901-15000    INCREASE IN RESERVED FUND BAL                        -                       -                  -             788,097              192,198                192,198


 10-901-_____    TOTAL EXPENDITURES               $          1,578,000    $              -        $          -       $       2,788,097   $         269,698    $            269,698
                                                                     -                        -                  -                   -                   -                       -




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                 Page 24                                                            City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  CLASS C ROADS
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020               06/30/2021          05/31/2021          06/30/2021         BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020          CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION           DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 11-30-11000      CLASS C ROAD REVENUE                                                  8,264                        -                -                   -                    -                      -
 11-30-11050      MASS TRANSIT TAX                                                    257,647                  225,000          239,305             358,958              260,000                260,000
 11-30-11100      INTEREST INCOME                                                      32,487                   10,000            6,745               8,000               10,000                 10,000
 11-33-51000      CLASS "C" ROAD FUND ALLOTMENT                                       602,375                  500,000          540,264             525,000              600,000                600,000
 11-39-31000      APPROP OF REST CLASS C FUNDS                                              -                        -                -                 -                    -                      -

                11 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $            900,773   $              735,000   $      786,315    $        891,958   $          870,000   $            870,000
                                                                                            -                        -                -                   -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 11-402-43000     ROAD MAINTENANCE AND STREET REPAIR                                  352,802                  600,000          348,991             600,000              450,000                450,000
 11-402-48000     14400 SOUTH                                                          84,000                        -                -                   -                    -                      -
 11-402-54000     PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE REPAIRS/MAINT.                                 71,900                  100,000           49,957             100,000              100,000                100,000
 11-900-10000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                   35,000                -             191,958              320,000                320,000

                11 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $            508,703   $              735,000   $      398,948    $        891,958   $          870,000   $            870,000
                                                                                            -                        -                -                   -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $            392,070   $                  -     $      387,366    $            -     $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                  518,711                  910,782           910,782             910,782 $         1,102,740 $             1,102,740
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                392,070                        -           387,366             191,958             320,000                 320,000
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                 910,782                  910,782         1,298,148           1,102,740 $         1,422,740 $             1,422,740




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                       Page 25                                                           City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  OLD WEST DAYS
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020            06/30/2021          05/31/2021           06/30/2021         BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION           DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 13-36-10000      SPONSORS                                                             15,650                20,000            3,945               20,000               20,000                 20,000
 13-36-11000      TOURNAMENTS                                                             835                 1,500                -                    -                1,500                  1,500
 13-36-12000      RACE                                                                  1,838                 1,500                -                    -                1,500                  1,500
 13-36-13000      BUCKAROO                                                                875                   400                -                    -                  400                    400
 13-36-14000      ATV RODEO                                                               300                   200                -                    -                  200                    200
 13-36-15000      VENDORS                                                                 545                   800                -                    -                  800                    800
 13-36-16000      CONTESTS                                                                 30                   100                -                    -                  100                    100
 13-36-17000      ATTRACTIONS                                                          10,342                 7,000                -                    -                7,000                  7,000
 13-36-18000      TRADING POST                                                          3,875                 4,000                -                    -                4,000                  4,000
 13-36-19000      CONCESSIONS                                                           4,834                 6,000                -                    -                6,000                  6,000
 13-36-21000      SENIOR DINNER                                                           705                   500                -                    -                  500                    500
 13-36-61000      MISCELLANEOUS                                                          (115)                    -                -                    -                    -                      -
 13-39-10000      CONTRIBUTION FROM GENERAL FUND                                       40,000                     -                -                    -               40,000                 40,000
 13-39-12000      USE OF FUND BALANCE                                                       -                79,000                -                    -               30,000                 30,000

                13 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $             79,714    $          121,000   $        3,945     $         20,000   $          112,000   $            112,000
                                                                                            -                     -                -                    -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 13-400-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                              3,500                     -                -                    -                3,000                  3,000
 13-400-41000     ADVERTISING                                                           6,613                15,000              700                2,000               15,000                 15,000
 13-400-41100     ATTRACTIONS                                                          28,413                34,500            8,450                8,450               28,500                 28,500
 13-400-41200     TRADING POST                                                          2,162                 3,000                -                    -                3,000                  3,000
 13-400-41300     AWARDS & APPRECIATION                                                 4,410                 8,000                -                    -                8,000                  8,000
 13-400-41400     CONCESSIONS                                                           3,275                 7,000                -                    -                9,000                  9,000
 13-400-41500     GAME SHOWS & CONTESTS                                                 2,574                 2,000            3,955                3,955                2,000                  2,000
 13-400-41600     YOUTH NIGHT                                                              50                   300                -                    -                  800                    800
 13-400-41700     RENTALS                                                               9,472                 9,000                -                    -               11,500                 11,500
 13-400-41800     SHOWS                                                                 1,630                   500                -                    -                1,000                  1,000
 13-400-41900     FAMILY NIGHT                                                            101                   500                -                    -                1,000                  1,000
 13-400-42000     RACE                                                                  1,231                 1,500                -                    -                1,500                  1,500
 13-400-43000     BUCKAROO                                                                532                   800                -                    -                1,000                  1,000
 13-400-44000     ATV RODEO                                                                 -                   400                -                    -                  400                    400
 13-400-45000     CONCERT & ENTERTAINMENT                                              14,663                30,000                -                    -               15,000                 15,000
 13-400-46000     PARADE                                                                   73                 1,000                -                    -                1,000                  1,000
 13-400-48000     TOURNAMENTS                                                              77                   500                -                    -                1,300                  1,300
 13-400-49000     SENIOR DINNER                                                           659                 1,000                -                    -                1,500                  1,500
 13-400-61000     MISCELLANEOUS                                                         6,393                 3,000            1,439                1,439                4,000                  4,000
 13-600-10000     BUILDINGS                                                               394                 1,000                -                    -                2,000                  2,000
 13-600-11000     GAME BOOTHS                                                           2,068                 2,000                -                    -                1,500                  1,500
 13-900-10000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                     -                -                4,155                    -                      -

                13 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $             88,290 $             121,000   $        14,545 $            20,000   $          112,000   $            112,000
                                                                                            -                     -                 -                   -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $             (8,576) $                -     $       (10,599) $              -     $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                   81,242                72,666            72,666              72,666 $             76,821 $               76,821
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                 (8,576)                    -           (10,599)              4,155              (30,000)               (30,000)
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                  72,666                72,666            62,067              76,821 $             46,821 $               46,821




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 26                                                        City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  BLUFFDALE ARTS ADVISORY BOARD
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020               06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021         BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020          CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION           DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 14-35-10000      ZAP TAX                                                                   -                    9,000            9,000              9,000                9,000                  9,000
 14-36-10000      TICKET SALES                                                         18,959                   12,700            2,461              4,000               12,700                 12,700
 14-36-11000      PHOTO SALES                                                             604                      200                -              1,000                  200                    200
 14-36-12000      CONCESSION SALES                                                      1,980                    1,200              330              1,000                1,200                  1,200
 14-36-13000      T-SHIRT / FLOWER SALES                                                   72                      700                -              1,000                  700                    700
 14-36-14000      SPONSORS                                                                  -                    1,000                -              1,000                1,000                  1,000
 14-36-31000      RENTALS                                                               7,155                      400            2,138              3,000                  400                    400
 14-36-61000      MISCELLANEOUS                                                         3,000                      400            2,695              4,000                  400                    400
 14-39-10000      CONTRIBUTION FROM GENERAL FUND                                       15,000                        -                -             15,000               15,000                 15,000
 14-39-12000      USE OF FUND BALANCE                                                       -                   15,200                -                -                    200                    200

                14 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $             46,771   $               40,800   $       16,623   $         39,000   $           40,800   $             40,800
                                                                                            -                        -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 14-400-10000     ADVERTISING                                                           5,272                    5,400            2,448              4,000                5,400                  5,400
 14-400-11000     PHOTO BOOTH                                                             673                        -                -              1,000                    -                      -
 14-400-12000     PROPS & SET                                                               -                    4,700                -              1,000                4,700                  4,700
 14-400-13000     COSTUMES, PROPS & SET                                                12,151                    4,000            3,057              4,000                4,000                  4,000
 14-400-14000     FACILITIES                                                            6,780                    7,200            1,100              2,000                7,200                  7,200
 14-400-15000     MUSIC & SCRIPT                                                        8,563                   10,700            1,617              3,000               10,700                 10,700
 14-400-16000     SHIRTS                                                                  595                    1,000                -              1,000                1,000                  1,000
 14-400-17000     BATTLE OF THE BANDS                                                       -                    1,800                -              1,000                1,800                  1,800
 14-400-18000     CONCERTS                                                                863                      400                -              1,000                  400                    400
 14-400-20000     CONCESSIONS                                                           1,093                    1,100               35              1,000                1,100                  1,100
 14-400-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                                 97                    3,000              150              1,000                3,000                  3,000
 14-400-61000     MISCELLANEOUS                                                         7,425                    1,500            4,569              2,000                1,500                  1,500
 14-900-10000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                        -                -                  -                    -                      -

                14 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $             43,512   $               40,800   $       12,976   $         22,000   $           40,800   $             40,800
                                                                                            -                        -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $              3,259   $                  -     $        3,648   $         17,000   $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                   12,128                   15,387           15,387             15,387 $             15,387 $               15,387
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                  3,259                        -            3,648                  -                 (200)                  (200)
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                  15,387                   15,387           19,034             15,387 $             15,187 $               15,187




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                       Page 27                                                          City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  MISS BLUFFDALE PAGEANT
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021         BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020           CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION           DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 15-36-10000      APPLICATION FEES                                                        855                       950              500                500                  950                    950
 15-36-11000      TICKET SALES                                                             (2)                    1,500            2,320              1,000                1,500                  1,500
 15-36-12000      FUND RAISING                                                          2,039                     2,000                -              2,000                5,500                  5,500
 15-36-13000      SPONSORS                                                              1,750                     3,500            3,050              3,050                    -                      -
 15-39-10000      CONTRIBUTION FROM GENERAL FUND                                        7,500                         -                -                  -                7,500                  7,500
 15-39-20000      APPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                  -                     8,500                -                400                  -                      -

                15 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $             12,142    $               16,450   $        5,870   $          6,950   $           15,450   $             15,450
                                                                                            -                         -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 15-400-41000     SCHOLARSHIPS                                                          6,250                     6,250                -                  -                6,250                  6,250
 15-400-42000     ADVERTISING                                                              15                     1,150                -                150                    -                      -
 15-400-43000     WORKSHOPS                                                               258                     1,140              291                500                    -                      -
 15-400-44000     PAGEANT                                                                 738                     4,440            1,450              4,000                7,420                  7,420
 15-400-45000     FUNDRAISING                                                           1,750                     1,000                -              1,000                1,000                  1,000
 15-400-46000     AWARDS & APPRECIATION                                                   520                       690              884                800                    -                      -
 15-400-61000     MISCELLANEOUS                                                           232                         -                -                500                    -                      -
 15-900-10000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                     1,780                -                  -                  780                    780

                15 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $              9,764    $               16,450   $        2,624   $          6,950   $           15,450   $             15,450
                                                                                            -                         -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $              2,378    $                  -     $        3,246   $            -     $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                   14,830                    17,208           17,208             17,208 $             16,808 $               16,808
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                  2,378                         -            3,246               (400)                 780                    780
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                  17,208                    17,208           20,453             16,808 $             17,588 $               17,588




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 28                                                          City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  RODEO FUND
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020               06/30/2021          05/31/2021           06/30/2021       BUDGET FY2022         BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020          CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION         DEPT REQ              APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 16-36-10000      TICKET SALES                                                         20,248                   20,000                  -                  -              18,000                 18,000
 16-36-12000      SPONSORS                                                                  -                    2,500                  -              2,500               2,500                  2,500
 16-36-14000      VENDORS                                                                   -                      100                  -                  -                 100                    100
 16-36-15000      MUTTON BUSTIN                                                            60                      150                  -                  -                 150                    150
 16-36-16000      FEES                                                                    870                      800                  -                  -               1,000                  1,000
 16-39-10000      CONTRIBUTION FROM GENERAL FUND                                       15,500                        -                  -                  -              15,000                 15,000
 16-39-12000      USE OF FUND BALANCE                                                       -                   43,600                  -             43,600                 -                      -

                16 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $             36,678   $               67,150   $          -       $         46,100   $          36,750   $             36,750
                                                                                            -                        -                  -                  -                   -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 16-400-10000     ADVERTISING                                                           3,191                    4,150                -                4,150               3,750                  3,750
 16-400-12000     STOCK                                                                11,600                   12,000                -                    -              12,000                 12,000
 16-400-13000     ENTERTAINMENT                                                         1,750                    1,500                -                    -               6,000                  6,000
 16-400-14000     CONCESSIONS                                                               -                        -                -                    -                   -                      -
 16-400-15000     RENTALS                                                                 860                    2,000                -                2,000               1,500                  1,500
 16-400-16000     AWARDS                                                                  116                    1,000                -                    -                 500                    500
 16-400-61000     MISCELLANEOUS                                                         2,881                    6,500                -                    -               5,500                  5,500
 16-400-91000     RESERVES                                                                  -                        -                -                    -               7,500                  7,500
 16-900-10000     TRANSFER TO GENERAL FUND                                                  -                   40,000           36,667               40,000                   -                      -

                16 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $             20,397   $               67,150   $        36,667 $            46,150 $            36,750   $             36,750
                                                                                            -                        -                 -                   -                   -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $             16,280   $                  -     $       (36,667) $              (50) $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                  106,414                  122,694          122,694              122,694 $            79,094 $               79,094
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                 16,280                        -          (36,667)             (43,600)              7,500                  7,500
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                 122,694                  122,694           86,028               79,094 $            86,594 $               86,594




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                       Page 29                                                            City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  ARENA USE COMMITTEE
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                    06/30/2021             05/31/2021           06/30/2021           BUDGET FY2022           BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020               CURRENT YR BUDGET       ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION             DEPT REQ                APPROVED
                  REVENUES

 17-39-10000      CONTRIBUTION FROM GENERAL FUND                                                 -                           -                  -                    -                       -                           -


                17 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $                   -       $                  -        $          -       $            -       $              -        $                   -
                                                                                                 -                           -                  -                    -                       -                           -
                  EXPENDITURES

 17-400-61000     MISCELLANEOUS                                                                  -                           -                  -                    -                       -                           -


                17 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $                   -       $                  -        $          -       $            -       $              -        $                   -
                                                                                                 -                           -                  -                    -                       -                           -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $                   -       $                  -        $          -       $            -       $              -        $                   -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                         300                       300                  300                  300 $                 300 $                     300
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                         -                         -                    -                    -                     -                         -
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                        300                       300                  300                  300 $                 300 $                     300




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                            Page 30                                                                 City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  JORDAN CROSSING CRA
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                06/30/2021           05/31/2021            06/30/2021         BUDGET FY2022         BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020           CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE          PROJECTION           DEPT REQ              APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 22-36-10000      INTEREST INCOME                                                                -                    -                    -                    -                   -                      -
 22-36-11000      LOAN FROM GENERAL FUND                                                         -                    -                    -                    -                   -                      -
 22-36-12000      PROPERTY TAXES                                                                 -                    -                    -                    -                   -                      -
 22-39-10000      REAPPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                     -               25,000                    -                    -               2,500                  2,500

                22 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $                   -       $           25,000    $           -       $            -       $           2,500   $              2,500
                                                                                                 -                    -                    -                    -                   -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 22-400-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                              2,198                    25,000             1,208                 1,200                 2,500                  2,500

                22 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $              2,198 $                  25,000    $         1,208 $               1,200 $              2,500   $              2,500
                                                                                            -                         -                  -                     -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $             (2,198) $                    -      $        (1,208) $             (1,200) $               -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                  (27,423)                  (29,621)           (29,621)              (29,621) $            (27,424) $            (27,424)
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                 (2,198)                        -             (1,208)               (1,200)               (2,500)               (2,500)
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                 (29,621)                  (29,621)           (30,829)              (30,821) $            (29,924) $            (29,924)




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                            Page 31                                                            City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  EASTERN BLUFFDALE EDA
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                06/30/2021           05/31/2021          06/30/2021          BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020           CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION            DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 23-36-10000      INTEREST INCOME                                                      149,887                         -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 23-36-12000      PROPERTY TAXES                                                     5,493,658                 5,800,000         5,964,527           5,973,477            5,973,477               5,973,477
 23-39-20000      APPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                   -                         -                 -                   -                    -                       -

                23 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $          5,643,545    $            5,800,000    $     5,964,527   $       5,973,477   $        5,973,477   $          5,973,477
                                                                                            -                         -                  -                   -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 23-400-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                             65,394                    150,000           13,401               25,000              150,000                 150,000
 23-400-46000     INFRASTRUCTURE & INCENTIVES                                          13,350                  3,786,000                -              500,000            2,945,599               2,945,599
 23-400-49000     VINTAGE PARK-AFFORDABLE HOUSNG                                            -                          -                -                    -                    -                       -
 23-400-50000     FIRE STATION NO.2                                                    75,599                          -                -                    -                    -                       -
 23-400-52000     STORM:14600 S. PRB INLET RECON                                        1,440                          -                -                    -                    -                       -
 23-400-56000     14600 S PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                -                    100,000                -              100,000                    -                       -
 23-400-57000     14600 S STORM DRAIN EAST NOELL                                            -                  1,300,000                -            1,300,000            1,300,000               1,300,000
 23-400-XXXXX     850 W 14600 S IMPROVEMENTS                                                -                          -                -                    -              500,000                 500,000
 23-400-XXXXX     SIGNAGE AND BRANDING                                                      -                          -                -                    -              100,000                 100,000
 23-400-XXXXX     ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                                      -                          -                -                    -              500,000                 500,000
 23-900-10000     GF ADMINISTRATION CHARGES                                           280,008                    464,000          425,333              464,000              477,878                 477,878
 23-900-11000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                          -                -                    -                    -                       -

                23 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $            435,791    $            5,800,000    $       438,734   $       2,389,000   $        5,973,477   $          5,973,477
                                                                                            -                         -                  -                   -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $          5,207,754    $                  -      $     5,525,793   $       3,584,477   $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                 4,835,395                10,043,149        10,043,149          10,043,149 $         13,627,626 $            13,627,626
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)               5,207,754                         -         5,525,793           3,584,477                    -                       -
                                                  Ending Fund Balance               10,043,149                10,043,149        15,568,942          13,627,626 $         13,627,626 $            13,627,626




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 32                                                             City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  GATEWAY RDA
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020               06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021         BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020          CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION           DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 24-36-10000      INTEREST INCOME                                                         997                        -                -                  -                    -                      -
 24-36-12000      PROPERTY TAXES                                                      357,752                  360,000          441,455            441,455              360,000                360,000
 24-39-10000      REAPPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                -                        -                -                  -                    -                      -

                24 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $            358,749   $              360,000   $      441,455   $        441,455   $          360,000   $            360,000
                                                                                            -                        -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 24-400-43000     AFFORDABLE HOUSING                                                   50,480                   72,000           71,550             46,000               46,000                 46,000
 24-400-44000     REDWOOD ROAD MITIGATION                                              10,575                    7,200                -             60,000                7,200                  7,200
 24-400-46000     INFRASTRUCTURE & INCENTIVES                                               -                  237,800                -                  -              263,800                263,800
 24-900-10000     GF ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGES                                            37,008                   43,000           39,417             43,000               43,000                 43,000
 24-900-11000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                        -                -                  -                    -                      -
 24-900-20000     CONTRIBUTION TO SID FUND                                            121,309                        -                -            292,455                    -                      -

                24 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $            219,372   $              360,000   $      110,967   $        441,455   $          360,000   $            360,000
                                                                                            -                        -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $            139,377   $                  -     $      330,488   $            -     $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                        0                  139,378          139,378            139,378 $            139,378 $              139,378
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                139,377                        -          330,488                  -                    -                      -
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                 139,378                  139,378          469,866            139,378 $            139,378 $              139,378




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                       Page 33                                                          City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  JORDAN NARROWS EDA
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                06/30/2021           05/31/2021          06/30/2021          BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020           CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION            DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 25-36-10000      INTEREST INCOME                                                      129,727                         -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 25-36-12000      PROPERTY TAXES JORDAN NARROWS                                      2,937,628                 3,100,000         3,689,832           3,690,164            3,900,000               3,900,000
 25-39-12000      FUND BALANCE APPROPRIATION                                                 -                   689,000                 -                   -                    -                       -

                25 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $          3,067,355    $            3,789,000    $     3,689,832   $       3,690,164   $        3,900,000   $          3,900,000
                                                                                            -                         -                  -                   -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 25-400-46000     INFRASTRUCTURE & INCENTIVES                                          10,000                  2,790,000                -                   -             3,210,000               3,210,000
 25-400-49000     HARMON DAY COLLECTOR                                                      -                    689,000                -             689,000                     -                       -
 25-400-52000     ZONE 1 EAST WATER PROJECTS                                          310,058                          -                -                   -                     -                       -
 23-400-XXXXX     ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT                                                      -                          -                -                   -               300,000                 300,000
 25-900-10000     GF ADMINISTRATION CHARGES                                           210,000                    310,000          284,163             310,000               390,000                 390,000

                25 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $            530,058    $            3,789,000    $       284,163   $         999,000   $        3,900,000   $          3,900,000
                                                                                            -                         -                  -                   -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $          2,537,297    $                  -      $     3,405,669   $       2,691,164   $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                 5,081,905                 7,619,202         7,619,202           7,619,202 $         10,310,366 $            10,310,366
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)               2,537,297                         -         3,405,669           2,691,164                    -                       -
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                7,619,202                 7,619,202        11,024,871          10,310,366 $         10,310,366 $            10,310,366




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 34                                                             City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  SPECIAL IMPROVEMENT FUND GATEWAY (SID)
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020            06/30/2021          05/31/2021           06/30/2021           BUDGET FY2022           BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION             DEPT REQ                APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 26-35-11000      SID PROPERTY TAXES                                                        -               387,000                  -                    -                       -                           -
 26-36-10000      INTEREST                                                              5,741                 3,000                  -                    -                       -                           -
 26-39-10000      USE OF FUND BALANCE                                                       -                     -                  -                    -                       -                           -
 26-39-19000      TRANSFER FROM RDA SID                                               121,309                     -                  -                    -                       -                           -

                26 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $            127,050    $          390,000   $          -       $            -       $              -        $                   -
                                                                                            -                     -                  -                    -                       -                           -
                  EXPENDITURES
 26-402-51100     SID DEBT SERVICE INTEREST                                            16,039                60,000                  -                    -                       -                           -
 26-402-53000     DEBT SERVICE PRINCIPAL                                              373,000               330,000                  -                    -                       -                           -

                26 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $            389,039 $             390,000   $          -       $            -       $              -        $                   -
                                                                                            -                     -                  -                    -                       -                           -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $           (261,989) $                -     $          -       $            -       $              -        $                   -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                  261,989                    0                   0                    0 $                    0 $                          0
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)               (261,989)                   -                   -                    -                      -                            -
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                       0                    0                   0                    0 $                    0 $                          0




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 35                                                          City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  PARK IMPACT FEES
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                06/30/2021           05/31/2021          06/30/2021          BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020           CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION            DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 40-36-10000      IMPACT FEES - PARKS                                                1,312,060                 1,690,000         2,639,725           2,800,000            1,102,000               1,102,000
 40-36-13000      IMPACT FEES - PARKS INDEPNDNCE                                             -                         -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 40-36-20000      INTEREST INCOME                                                        1,921                         -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 40-39-10000      REAPPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                 -                 3,909,000                 -             804,000            2,457,000               2,457,000

                40 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $          1,313,981    $            5,599,000    $     2,639,725   $       3,604,000   $        3,559,000   $          3,559,000
                                                                                            -                         -                  -                   -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 40-400-12000     PARK PURCHASES & IMPROVEMENTS                                        50,300                    500,000              200              500,000              500,000                 500,000
 40-400-13000     PARK PURCHASES & IMPROV-IND                                          79,596                    130,000                -              200,000              200,000                 200,000
 40-400-14000     PARK PURCHASES & IMPROV-ACL                                         274,720                          -                -                    -                    -                       -
 40-400-18000     RODEO/ARENA IMPROVEMENTS                                                  -                  1,000,000                -              350,000                    -                       -
 40-400-21500     PARKS BUILDING ADDITION                                             103,256                    250,000           92,957              250,000                    -                       -
 40-400-25000     DAY RANCH PARK                                                      664,616                  3,500,000            5,514            2,100,000            2,500,000               2,500,000
 40-400-28000     PARK MONUMENT SIGNS                                                       -                     15,000                -                    -               15,000                  15,000
 40-400-29000     PLAT K IMPROVEMENTS                                                   3,931                    170,000              150              170,000              170,000                 170,000
 45-404-XXXXX     MAIN PARK ELECTRICAL UPGRADE                                              -                          -                -                    -              160,000                 160,000
 40-400-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                                  -                     22,000                -               22,000                2,000                   2,000
 40-400-50000     UPDATE TO IFFP                                                        2,456                     12,000              758               12,000               12,000                  12,000
 40-400-64000     PARKS REFUND                                                              -                          -                -                    -                    -                       -

                40 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $          1,178,874    $            5,599,000    $        99,579   $       3,604,000   $        3,559,000   $          3,559,000
                                                                                            -                         -                  -                   -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $            135,107    $                  -      $     2,540,146   $             -     $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                 3,929,150                 4,064,257         4,064,257           4,064,257 $           3,260,257 $            3,260,257
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                 135,107                         -         2,540,146            (804,000)           (2,457,000)            (2,457,000)
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                4,064,257                 4,064,257         6,604,403           3,260,257 $             803,257 $              803,257




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 36                                                             City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  PUBLIC SAFETY IMPACT FEES
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020               06/30/2021          05/31/2021          06/30/2021          BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020          CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION            DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 41-36-10000      IMPACT FEES - PUBLIC SAFETY                                         522,177                  240,000         1,087,602           1,100,000              530,000                530,000
 41-36-20000      INTEREST INCOME                                                      82,843                        -                 -                   -                    -                      -
 41-39-10000      REAPPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                -                  522,500                 -                   -                    -                      -

                41 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $            605,020   $              762,500   $     1,087,602   $       1,100,000   $          530,000   $            530,000
                                                                                            -                        -                 -                   -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 41-400-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                                  -                      500                -                   -                   500                    500
 41-400-39000     FIRE ENGINE                                                               -                  600,000          590,207             600,000                     -                      -
 41-400-41000     DEBT SERVICE INTEREST                                                12,226                   25,000            9,600              25,000                25,000                 25,000
 41-400-42000     DEBT SERVICE PRINCIPAL                                              129,000                  125,000          126,000             125,000               125,000                125,000
 41-400-50000     UPDATE TO IFFP                                                        2,456                   12,000              758              12,000                12,000                 12,000
 41-900-10000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                        -                -             338,000               367,500                367,500

                41 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $            143,682   $              762,500   $      726,564    $       1,100,000   $          530,000   $            530,000
                                                                                            -                        -                -                    -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $            461,338   $                  -     $      361,038    $             -     $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                  446,888                  908,225           908,225             908,225 $          1,246,225 $             1,246,225
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                461,338                        -           361,038             338,000              367,500                 367,500
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                 908,225                  908,225         1,269,263           1,246,225 $          1,613,725 $             1,613,725




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                       Page 37                                                            City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  ROADS & BRIDGES IMPACT FEES
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020             06/30/2021           05/31/2021          06/30/2021          BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020        CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION            DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 42-36-10000      IMPACT FEES - ROADS & BRIDGES                                      1,016,082              1,168,000         2,260,177           2,465,600            2,026,000               2,026,000
 42-36-14000      1780 WEST REIMB.                                                           -                      -                 -             250,000                    -                       -
 42-36-20000      INTEREST INCOME                                                       11,970                      -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 42-39-10000      REAPPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                 -              1,784,000                 -                   -            3,174,000               3,174,000

                42 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $          1,028,052     $         2,952,000   $     2,260,177   $       2,715,600   $        5,200,000   $          5,200,000
                                                                                            -                       -                 -                   -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 42-400-43000     14000@REDWOOD RD IMPROVEMENTS                                        484,523                      -          380,400                    -              500,000                 500,000
 42-400-50000     UPDATE TO IFFP                                                         6,331                 12,000            1,184                    -                    -                       -
 42-400-52000     NOELL NELSON                                                               -                 95,000           55,960                    -                    -                       -
 42-400-54000     14400 S WIDENING & ROUNDABOUT                                        184,820                      -                -                    -                    -                       -
 42-400-55000     ROUNDABOUT @14400 S                                                        -                      -                -                    -                    -                       -
 42-400-56000     HARMON DAY                                                         1,630,425                400,000                -            1,550,000            1,100,000               1,100,000
 42-400-56500     HARMON DAY ROUNDABOUT LANDSCAP                                             -                 95,000           49,108                    -                    -                       -
 42-400-57500     1780 WEST COLLECTOR                                                  497,831                100,000                -                    -              500,000                 500,000
 42-400-58000     14600 SOUTH EXT. - BIKE LANES                                          9,255                100,000            1,646               10,000              100,000                 100,000
 42-400-58100     14600 S 1690 W TO SPRINGVIEW                                               -                 50,000                -                    -                    -                       -
 42-400-58200     14600 S STORM DRAIN EAST NOELL                                             -                500,000                -                    -                    -                       -
 42-400-59000     HERITAGE 76 COLLECTOR                                                      -              1,000,000           15,300              500,000            1,500,000               1,500,000
 42-400-60000     13900 S FROM 2700 TO 2950 WEST                                             -                600,000                -                    -            1,500,000               1,500,000
 42-400-84000     2200 W PAVING, CURB & GUTTER                                         154,456                      -                -                    -                    -                       -
 42-900-10000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                   -                      -                -                    -                    -                       -

                42 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $           2,967,642 $            2,952,000   $       503,598   $       2,060,000   $        5,200,000   $          5,200,000
                                                                                             -                      -                 -                   -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $          (1,939,590) $                 -     $     1,756,579   $         655,600   $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                 2,133,556               193,966           193,966             193,966 $              193,966 $              193,966
                                             Duplicated Rollover Costs                                                                                                  1,600,000 $            1,600,000
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)              (1,939,590)                    -          1,756,579                  -             (3,174,000)            (3,174,000)
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                  193,966               193,966          1,950,545            193,966 $           (1,380,034) $          (1,380,034)




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                         Page 38                                                         City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  STORM DRAIN IMPACT FEES
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020            06/30/2021          05/31/2021         06/30/2021         BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET    ACTUAL TO DATE       PROJECTION           DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 44-36-10000      IMPACT FEES - STORM DRAIN                                            48,191               105,000          146,284            159,600              145,000                145,000
 44-36-20000      INTEREST INCOME                                                      35,071                     -                -                  -                    -                      -
 44-39-10000      REAPPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                -                     -                -            120,500                    -                      -

                44 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $             83,262    $          105,000   $      146,284   $        280,100   $          145,000   $            145,000
                                                                                            -                     -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 44-400-50000     REFUND INDEPENDENCE                                                  77,508                     -           36,556             50,000               25,000                 25,000
 44-400-55000     UPDATE TO IFFP                                                        1,468                12,000              758             12,000                    -                      -
 44-400-56000     14600 SOUTH PROJECT                                                  20,078                     -                -                  -                    -                      -
 44-900-10000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                93,000                -                  -              120,000                120,000

                44 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $             99,054 $             105,000   $       37,314   $         62,000   $          145,000   $            145,000
                                                                                            -                     -                -                  -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $            (15,792) $                -     $      108,971   $        218,100   $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                  867,998               852,205          852,205             852,205 $         1,070,305 $             1,070,305
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                (15,792)                    -          108,971             218,100             120,000                 120,000
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                 852,205               852,205          961,176           1,070,305 $         1,190,305 $             1,190,305




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 39                                                      City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  CAPITAL PROJECTS
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                            06/30/2020            06/30/2021            05/31/2021          06/30/2021      BUDGET FY2022            BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                             ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET      ACTUAL TO DATE        PROJECTION        DEPT REQ                 APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 45-33-90004      GRANTS                                                            -                212,500           57,894              212,500                    -                       -
 45-34-12000      CORRIDOR PRESERVATION FUNDS                                       -              1,120,000                -            1,120,000               50,000                  50,000
 45-34-12200      SALT LAKE COUNTY                                            434,853              2,400,000          686,884            2,400,000                    -                       -
 45-34-49100      SVSD WEST OUTFALL DIVERSION                                       -                140,000                -              140,000                    -                       -
 45-34-49200      LOUMIS SUBDIVISION UTILITIES                                      -                 90,000                -               90,000                    -                       -
 45-34-49500      SVSD-14400S/2200W ROAD PROJECT                               38,506                      -                -                    -                    -                       -
 45-35-11100      INTEREST INCOME                                                   -                  1,000                -                1,000                1,000                   1,000
 45-35-91000      MISC. REVENUE                                                34,028              2,000,000              500                  500                    -                       -
 45-38-11100      INTEREST INCOME                                              70,024                  1,000              398                1,000                1,000                   1,000
 45-39-19000      CONTRIBUTION GENERAL FUND                                         -                      -                -            2,000,000                    -                       -
 45-39-19300      NON-OPERATING FUNDS TRANSFER                              1,500,000                      -                -                    -                    -                       -
 45-33-90005      REAPPROPRIATED CAP FUND BAL                                       -              5,061,900                -            1,520,000            4,933,000               4,933,000

                45 TOTAL REVENUES                              $           2,077,411    $         11,026,400   $      745,675    $       7,485,000   $        4,985,000   $          4,985,000
                                                                                   -                       -                -                    -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 45-404-41200     PONY EXPRESS CONNECTOR                                           -               1,120,000                 -                   -               50,000                  50,000
 45-404-41300     BATTING CAGES @ PARRY FARMS                                      -                   4,000             3,750               4,000                    -                       -
 45-404-49100     SVSD WEST OUTFALL DIVERSION                                      -                 140,000            32,409             140,000                    -                       -
 45-404-49200     LOUMIS SUBDIVISION UTILITIES                                     -                  90,000                 -              90,000                    -                       -
 45-404-49500     14400S/2200W ROAD PROJECT-SVSD                              70,449                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-50100     PURCHASE CEMETERY PLOTS                                      4,500                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-51100     SCHOOL ZONE LIGHTS (2700 W)                                      -                   5,000                 -               5,000                    -                       -
 45-404-51200     4-WAY STOP LIGHTING (14400 S)                                    -                  13,000             6,562              13,000                    -                       -
 45-404-51300     PORTER ROCKWELL TRAIL INSTALL                                    -                  25,000            21,308              25,000                    -                       -
 45-404-51400     1690 W LOUMIS PKWY IMPROVEMENT                                   -                 650,000            82,186             650,000              400,000                 400,000
 45-404-51700     PRB SEG 4&5 STREET LIGHT/LANDS                                   -               1,500,000           370,689           1,500,000            1,000,000               1,000,000
 45-404-51500     14600 S RAILROAD UNDERPASS                                       -                 200,000             1,531             200,000               50,000                  50,000
 45-404-51800     14600 S STORM DRAIN EAST NOELL                                   -                       -             4,800                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-51900     PONDEROSA PARK OVERFLOW SPILLW                                   -                 108,000                 -             108,000              100,000                 100,000
 45-404-52000     FIRE STATION BLDG IMPROVEMENTS                                   -                       -                 -                   -               75,000                  75,000
 45-404-52100     FIRE ENGINE TYPE 1/3                                             -                 400,000                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-52200     GENERAL PLAN UPDATE                                              -                  25,000            25,000              25,000                    -                       -
 45-404-57000     PUBLIC WORKS BLDG IMPROVEMENTS                              26,746                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-57500     PUBLIC WORKS BLDG NEEDS ASMT.                                4,250                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-60000     SCHOOL CROSSINGS @ VARIOUS LOC                                  30                  10,000            10,578              10,000               10,000                  10,000
 45-404-62000     14600 S EXTENSION REDWOOD RD                               568,930               1,430,000         1,191,790           1,430,000                    -                       -
 45-404-62500     14600 S. HIGH TEE INTERSECTION                              62,250                       -             7,358                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-65200     PUBLIC WORKS: UTILITY TRUCK(S)                                   -                  35,000                 -                   -              110,000                 110,000
 45-404-66100     STREETS: GRINDLAZER SYSTEM                                       -                   7,900                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-66200     STREETS: PLOW MANAGE SOFTWARE                                2,082                       -             1,900               2,000                    -                       -
 45-404-66600     STREETS: BOBTAIL DUMP/PLOW TRK                             207,142                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-67100     14000 S 1950 W PIPE                                              -                  10,000                 -              10,000                    -                       -
 45-404-69000     MIDDLE SCHOOL AUDITORIUM UPGRD                                   -                  35,000                 -              35,000                    -                       -
 45-404-70000     MARKETPLACE PARK REGRADING                                       -                   3,000                 -               3,000                    -                       -
 45-404-71000     SPLASH PAD CONCRETE SEALANT                                      -                   5,000                 -               5,000                    -                       -
 45-404-78025     BANGERTER & REDWOOD RD PROPRTY                                   -               2,300,000           269,500             269,500                    -                       -
 45-404-78150     SOUTHBLUFF CIRCLE STORM DRAIN                                    -                  52,000            15,151              52,000                    -                       -
 45-404-79910     CAMERA SYSTEM                                                    -                 125,000            53,864             125,000              100,000                 100,000
 45-404-79950     PORTER ROCKWELL BOULEVARD                                   75,371                       -            45,000              50,000                    -                       -
 45-404-80000     STREET LIGHTING LED CONVERSION                               2,204                 100,000                 -             100,000               10,000                  10,000
 45-404-83000     14400 S WIDENING & ROUNDABOUT                               58,817                  10,000             6,232              10,000                    -                       -
 45-404-84000     2200 W PAVING, CURB & GUTTER                               101,377                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-85400     ZONE 1 WEST ROAD REPAIR                                          -               1,220,000           738,561           1,220,000                    -                       -
 45-404-85800     ROAD MAINTENANCE                                           231,919                 908,000                 -             908,000              850,000                 850,000
 45-404-86100     STORM: 2700 W 15000 S OUTFALL                                    -                 200,000           119,525             200,000                    -                       -
 45-404-86200     STORM: 2700 W 14400 S PIPE                                       -                  85,000                 -              85,000                    -                       -
 45-404-86300     STORM: 15000 S 3200 W REPAIR                                     -                  37,500                 -              37,500                    -                       -
 45-404-86400     STORM: CITY HALL MODIFICATIONS                                   -                  25,000            18,174              25,000                    -                       -
 45-404-86500     U.P. STORM WATER EASEMENT                                   12,000                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-89200     STORM DRAIN CAMERA SYSTEM                                   17,123                  23,000                 -              23,000                    -                       -
 45-404-89300     IRRIGATION SYSTEM UPDATES                                   11,473                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-89400     PRB PEDESTRIAN TRAIL                                        26,100                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-89500     DAY RANCH TRAIL CONNECTION                                       -                 125,000                 -             125,000              125,000                 125,000
 45-404-89600     BRINGHURST TRAFFIC SIGNAL                                    9,204                       -                 -                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-90000     LAND FOR PUBLIC WORKS BLDG                                 796,746                       -             1,103                   -                    -                       -
 45-404-XXXXX     RODEO ARENA (DESIGN)                                             -                       -                 -                   -               50,000                  50,000
 45-404-XXXXX     ROADS: 14600 SOUTH 1690 W TO SPRINGVIEW FARMS                    -                       -                 -                   -               50,000                  50,000
 45-404-XXXXX     ROADS: SAFE ROUTE TO SCHOOL VARIOUS LOCATIONS                    -                       -                 -                   -              100,000                 100,000
 45-404-XXXXX     ROADS: ROW LANDSCAPING                                           -                       -                 -                   -              300,000                 300,000
 45-404-XXXXX     ROADS: OAKPOINT & SAGE CREST DR. SIDEWALKS                       -                       -                 -                   -              600,000                 600,000
 45-404-XXXXX     STORM: SANTA ROSA STORM DRAIN REPAIR                             -                       -                 -                   -              120,000                 120,000
 45-404-XXXXX     STORM: SPRINGVIEW FARMS STORM DRAIN RESTORATION                  -                       -                 -                   -              250,000                 250,000




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                               Page 40                                                          City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
 45-404-XXXXX     STORM: ALLRED ACRES POND REESTABLISHMENT                           -                       -                -              -              500,000             500,000
 45-404-XXXXX     SIGNAGE AND BRANDING                                               -                       -                -              -              100,000             100,000
 45-404-XXXXX     PARKS: WEATHER TRAK SYSTEM UPGRADE                                 -                       -                -              -               35,000              35,000
 45-900-XXXXX     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                           -                       -                -              -                    -                   -
 45-901-10000     CONTRIBUTION LBA FUND DEBT RES                                     -                       -                -              -                    -                   -

                45 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $   2,288,712 $            11,026,400   $    3,026,973 $    7,485,000   $        4,985,000   $       4,985,000
                                                                                     -                       -                -              -                    -                   -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $    (211,301) $                  -     $   (2,281,298) $         -     $              -     $             -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance         5,482,891               5,271,590       5,271,590        5,271,590 $          3,751,591 $         3,751,591
                                             Duplicated Rollover Costs                                                                           $         1,053,000 $         1,053,000
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)        (211,301)                      -       (2,281,298)     (1,520,000)          (4,933,000)         (4,933,000)
                                                  Ending Fund Balance        5,271,590               5,271,590        2,990,292       3,751,591 $           (128,409) $         (128,409)




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                 Page 41                                                    City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  WATER OPERATIONS FUND
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                 06/30/2021           05/31/2021           06/30/2021          BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020            CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION            DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 51-37-10000      CONTRIBUTED CAPITAL                                                1,248,507                          -                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-37-20000      CONNECTION FEES                                                      328,110                    181,000           299,697              326,900              111,000                 111,000
 51-37-21001      WATER SALES                                                        6,448,286                  6,000,000         6,302,424            6,875,400            6,400,000               6,400,000
 51-37-22000      SECONDARY WATER SALES                                                 82,442                     60,000            81,050               88,400               95,000                  95,000
 51-37-24001      HYDRANT METER RENTAL/WATER USE                                        83,361                     83,400            73,090               79,700               65,000                  65,000
 51-37-25001      WATER SHARE ASSESSMENTS                                               29,359                     35,000            24,864               27,100               35,000                  35,000
 51-37-31011      RE-CONNECT CHRG ON WATER                                               2,950                      2,000             3,571                3,900                3,000                   3,000
 51-37-91030      MISCELLANEOUS                                                         86,704                     50,000            74,976               81,800               50,000                  50,000
 51-38-91010      INTEREST INCOME                                                       63,812                      4,000            24,022               26,000                4,000                   4,000
 51-38-91030      WATER GRANT                                                           48,000                    100,000                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-39-XXXXX      SALE OF ASSETS                                                             -                          -                 -                    -               40,000                  40,000
 51-39-20000      WATER TANK BOND                                                            -                  8,000,000                 -            8,000,000                    -                       -
 51-39-22000      USE OF FUND BALANCE                                                        -                          -                 -                    -              112,200                 112,200

                51 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $          8,421,531     $           14,515,400    $     6,883,695    $      15,509,200   $        6,915,200   $          6,915,200
                                                                                            -                          -                  -                    -                    -                      -
                  EXPENSES
 51-511-11000     SALARIES AND WAGES                                                   818,170                  1,057,000           847,936              925,000            1,249,000               1,249,000
 51-511-12000     PART-TIME EMPLOYEES                                                    1,488                     59,000            10,752               11,700               33,000                  33,000
 51-511-13000     EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                                                    395,480                    524,000           375,582              409,700              585,000                 585,000
 51-511-13110     EMPLOYEE BENEFITS                                                     28,828                          -                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-511-21000     BOOKS, SUB., & MEMBERSHIPS                                               964                      1,700             1,623                1,800                1,700                   1,700
 51-511-23000     EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                 8,554                     12,000             5,137                5,600               12,000                  12,000
 51-511-23200     PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT                                          3,684                      5,000             2,616                2,900                5,000                   5,000
 51-511-24000     OFFICE SUPPLIES                                                       33,978                     35,000            29,589               32,300               35,000                  35,000
 51-511-25000     SUPPLIES & MAINTENANCE                                                24,589                      4,500                80                  100                4,500                   4,500
 51-511-27000     SHOP CHARGES                                                          24,265                     25,000            15,463               16,900               25,000                  25,000
 51-511-27100     UTILITIES                                                             40,587                     35,000            62,889               68,600               35,000                  35,000
 51-511-28000     TELEPHONE                                                              4,944                      7,000             4,835                5,300                7,000                   7,000
 51-511-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                              43,637                     40,000            47,349               51,700               40,000                  40,000
 51-511-43000     RENT OFFICE SPACE                                                          -                     20,000                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-511-44000     WATER RIGHTS                                                           1,408                    300,000           250,295              300,000              300,000                 300,000
 51-511-45000     CONSERVATION EASEMENT                                                      -                    350,000                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-511-45400     WATER PURCHASED                                                    1,772,978                  1,500,000         1,462,662            1,596,000            1,800,000               1,800,000
 51-511-48400     BOND ISSANCE COST                                                          -                          -            79,848               87,000                    -                       -
 51-511-48500     DEBT SERVICE                                                          94,996                    420,000           218,167              238,000              420,000                 420,000
 51-511-48600     SYSTEM MAINTENANCE                                                   262,823                    480,000           345,557              377,000              480,000                 480,000
 51-511-54830     DEPRECIATION                                                       1,576,460                          -                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-511-61000     MISCELLANEOUS                                                          6,121                      8,000            13,539               14,800                8,000                   8,000
 51-511-62000     IRRIGATION WATER ASSESSMENT                                           85,314                     65,000            73,483               80,200              100,000                 100,000
 51-511-71000     SHALLOW WATER/TEST WELLS                                              11,700                     10,000                 -                    -               50,000                  50,000
 51-511-72000     INDEPENDNCE PARK STORAGE TANKS                                             -                    210,000                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-511-73000     14400 S WIDENING-WATER LINES                                          50,621                          -                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-511-74000     EQUIPMENT                                                                  1                     43,000            10,601               11,600               70,000                  70,000
 51-511-74650     WATER DEFICIENCIES PROJECT                                                 -                     40,000                 -                    -              325,000                 325,000
 51-511-74660     WATER TANK PLANNING & LAND                                             2,684                          -                 -                    -                    -                       -
 51-511-74800     GIS MAPS MAINTENANCE                                                  61,747                     80,000            39,301               42,900               80,000                  80,000
 51-511-76000     LAND FOR PUBLIC WORKS BLDG                                             4,600                          -             1,103                1,200                    -                       -
 51-511-85000     JORDAN NARR CANAL PUMP STATION                                            (0)                   150,000            67,358               73,500                    -                       -
 51-511-85400     ZONE 1 WEST TRANSMISSION MAIN                                              0                    600,000           551,919              602,100                    -                       -
 51-511-85450     ZONE 1 WEST WATER STORAGE                                                  1                  3,013,000         2,143,429            2,338,300                    -                       -
 51-511-85700     DRINKING WATER LATERAL REPLACE                                             -                     50,000                 -                    -              100,000                 100,000
 51-511-85800     ROAD REPAIR - ZONE 1 WEST TANK                                             -                    600,000           556,907              600,000                    -                       -
 51-511-85900     PRB SEG 4 & 5 WATER LINE                                                   -                    260,000             2,625              260,000                    -                       -
 51-511-86000     ZONE 2 WEST STORAGE TANK (DW)                                              -                    722,500                 -              722,500                    -                       -
 51-511-86100     15000 SOUTH PI PUMP STATION                                                -                    700,000           100,276              700,000              630,000                 630,000
 51-511-86200     ZONE 1 EAST PI POND TRANS MAIN                                             -                    140,000            77,081               84,100               70,000                  70,000
 51-511-86300     ZONE 1 EAST PI POND CONSTRUCTN                                             -                    280,000            17,173              280,000              180,000                 180,000
 51-511-86400     METER BOX &SETTER INSTALLATION                                             -                     80,000                 -               80,000               80,000                  80,000
 51-511-86700     MISC PIPE UPGRADES                                                         -                     50,000                 -               50,000               50,000                  50,000
 51-511-XXXXX     DW - ZONE 1 EAST WATER STORAGE                                             -                          -                 -                    -               50,000                  50,000
 51-511-XXXXX     DW - ZONE 2 EAST DRINKING WATER TANK STUDY                                 -                          -                 -                    -               50,000                  50,000
 51-511-XXXXX     ZONE 2 EAST STORAGE - PROPERTY ACQUISITION                                 -                          -                 -                    -               25,000                  25,000
 51-511-XXXXX     WATER MASTER PLANNING AND MODELING                                         -                          -                 -                    -               15,000                  15,000
 51-900-92000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                   -                  2,538,700                 -            5,394,023                    -                       -

                51 TOTAL EXPENSES                                        $          5,360,621     $           14,515,400    $     7,415,177 $         15,464,823   $        6,915,200   $          6,915,200
                                                                                            -                          -                  -                    -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $          3,060,909     $                  -      $      (531,481) $            44,377   $              -     $                -

                                                           2263414.22
                                         Beginning Avail. Fund Balance                 (70,719)                 2,990,190         2,990,190            2,990,190 $          8,384,213 $             8,384,213
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)               3,060,909                          -          (531,481)           5,394,023             (112,200)               (112,200)
                                            Ending Avail. Fund Balance               2,990,190                  2,990,190         2,458,709            8,384,213 $          8,272,013 $             8,272,013




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                         Page 42                                                              City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  WATER IMPACT FEES
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020                06/30/2021            05/31/2021           06/30/2021          BUDGET FY2022        BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020           CURRENT YR BUDGET      ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION            DEPT REQ             APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 52-36-10000      IMPACT FEES - WATER                                                 415,302                    129,000          2,442,546            2,664,600              430,000                430,000
 52-36-20000      INTEREST INCOME                                                       3,793                          -                  -                    -                    -                      -
 52-39-10000      REAPPROPRIATE FUND BALANCE                                                -                  3,265,500                  -                    -              335,000                335,000

                52 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $            419,095    $            3,394,500     $     2,442,546    $       2,664,600   $          765,000   $            765,000
                                                                                            -                         -                   -                    -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 52-400-44000     WELL & WATER SHARES                                                       -                   200,000            200,000              218,200               200,000                200,000
 52-400-50000     BOND ISSUE COSTS                                                          -                         -                  -                    -                     -                      -
 52-400-53000     ZONE 1 EAST PI POND TRANS MAIN                                            -                   360,000                  -                    -               140,000                140,000
 52-400-55000     UPDATE TO IFFP                                                        2,456                    12,000                758               12,000                     -                      -
 52-400-56000     DAY RANCH TRUNK LINE                                                      0                   350,000                  -              350,000                     -                      -
 52-400-61000     WATER MASTER PLAN                                                         -                         -                  -                    -                15,000                 15,000
 52-400-85200     ZONE 1 EAST PI POND                                                       -                   720,000                775                  800               360,000                360,000
 52-400-85400     ZONE 1 WEST 15000 SOUTH 2700 W. TRANSMISION MAIN                          -                   410,000            306,797              334,700                     -                      -
 52-400-85450     ZONE 1 WEST WATER STORAGE (15000 SO)                                      -                   975,000            772,515              842,700                     -                      -
 52-400-85900     PRB SEG 4 & 5 WATER LINE                                                  -                   240,000                  -                    -                     -                      -
 52-400-86000     ZONE 2 WEST STORAGE TANK (DW)                                             -                   127,500                  -                    -                     -                      -
 52-400-XXXXX     ZONE 1 EAST WATER STORAGE                                                 -                         -                  -                    -                50,000                 50,000
 52-901-12000     INCREASE IN FUND BALANCE                                                  -                         -                  -              906,200                     -                      -

                52 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $              2,456    $            3,394,500     $     1,280,845    $       2,664,600   $          765,000   $            765,000
                                                                                            -                         -                   -                    -                    -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $            416,639    $                  -       $     1,161,701    $             -     $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                 (790,149)                  (373,510)          (373,510)            (373,510) $          (373,510) $            (373,510)
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                416,639                          -          1,161,701                    -             (335,000)              (335,000)
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                (373,510)                  (373,510)           788,191             (373,510) $          (708,510) $            (708,510)




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 43                                                               City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                  LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
 ACCOUNT          ACCOUNT                                                     06/30/2020            06/30/2021           05/31/2021           06/30/2021        BUDGET FY2022         BUDGET FY2022
 NUMBER           TITLE                                                      ACTUAL FY2020       CURRENT YR BUDGET     ACTUAL TO DATE         PROJECTION          DEPT REQ              APPROVED
                  REVENUES
 31-36-11000      LEASE PAYMENTS                                                      404,004                404,900          370,337              404,000              405,200                 405,200
 31-36-10000      BOND PROCEEDS                                                             -              8,000,000                -                    -           13,000,000              13,000,000
 31-36-20000      INTEREST INCOME                                                       9,614                      -            2,099                6,000                    -                       -
 31-36-61000      MISC. REVENUE                                                             -                      -                -                4,500                    -                       -
 31-39-10000      REAPPROPRIAT FUND BALANCE                                                 -                      -                -                    -                    -                       -
 31-39-13000      NON-OPERATING FUNDS TRANSFER                                              -                      -                -                    -                    -                       -

                31 TOTAL REVENUES                                        $            413,618    $         8,404,900   $      372,436     $        414,500   $       13,405,200   $         13,405,200
                                                                                            -                      -                -                    -                    -                      -
                  EXPENDITURES
 31-400-31000     PROFESSIONAL & TECHNICAL                                              1,800                  2,000            1,775                2,000                2,000                   2,000
 31-400-40000     DEBT SERVICE INTEREST                                               240,363                235,900          235,863              250,000              231,200                 231,200
 31-400-40100     DEBT SERVICE PRINCIPAL                                              150,000                155,000          155,000              155,000              160,000                 160,000
 31-400-41000     CITY HALL                                                            32,935                 12,000                -                    -                    -                       -
 31-400-42000     PUBLIC WORKS BLDG                                                         -              8,000,000          506,684              250,000           13,000,000              13,000,000
 31-400-51000     INSURANCE - GEN LIAB &PROPERTY                                            -                      -           11,832               12,000               12,000                  12,000
 31-400-91000     RESERVES                                                                  -                      -                -                    -                    -                       -

                31 TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    $            425,098 $            8,404,900   $       911,153 $            669,000 $        13,405,200   $         13,405,200
                                                                                            -                      -                 -                    -                   -                      -
                  SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                      $            (11,480) $                 -     $      (538,717) $          (254,500) $              -     $                -



                                              Beginning Fund Balance                  516,282               504,803            504,803              504,803 $           22,297 $                22,297
                        Add'l Reserves/(Appropriation of Fund Balance)                (11,480)                    -           (538,717)            (254,500)                 -                       -
                                                  Ending Fund Balance                 504,803               504,803            (33,914)             250,303 $           22,297 $                22,297




Printed: 6/4/2021 3:45 PM                                                                        Page 44                                                         City Council Meeting - June 9, 2021
                          THE LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
                          OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2021-03

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING AND ACCEPTING THE FISCAL YEAR 2021-2022
FINAL BUDGET FOR THE LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH

       WHEREAS the Local Building Authority of the City of Bluffdale, Utah (THE
“AUTHORITY”), has approved a tentative budget as the Governing Body of the Local Building
Authority of the City of Bluffdale, Utah as required by law;
        WHEREAS the Local Building Authority is required to approve a final budget for the
Fiscal Year 2021–2022, and
       WHEREAS the budget appears to be in correct and lawful form;


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY
OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:


      Section 1.      Budget Adopted. The Budget (Attachment A) is adopted as the Final
Budget for the Local Building Authority of the City of Bluffdale, Utah for the Fiscal Year 2021-
2022.
       Section 2.     Copy Delivered to Salt Lake County Auditor. A copy of the Budget
and Resolution shall be delivered to the Salt Lake County Auditor.
        Section 3.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
its passage and authorizes and directs the Local Building Authority Chair-President to execute
and cause to be delivered the same.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED: June 09, 2021

                                                    LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF
                                                    THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH


                                                    ___________________________
                                                    Derk P. Timothy, Chair-President


ATTEST:


_______________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, Secretary-Treasurer
Voting by the Board:

                           Aye     Nay

Chair-President Timothy   _____   _____
Trustee Aston             _____   _____
Trustee Crockett          _____   _____
Trustee Gaston            _____   _____
Trustee Hales             _____   _____
Trustee Kallas            _____   _____
Attachment A
LBA Budget
               CITY OF BLUFFDALE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY

                              RESOLUTION NO. 2021-02

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINAL BUDGET FOR THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY FOR FISCAL YEAR 2021-2022

         WHEREAS the Board of Directors of the Redevelopment Agency has approved a
tentative budget as the Governing Body of the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Bluffdale as
required by law;

         WHEREAS the Board of Directors of the Redevelopment Agency is required to approve
a final budget for the fiscal year 2021-2022; and

       WHEREAS the budget appears to be in correct and lawful form;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
CITY OF BLUFFDALE REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY, AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.       Budget Adopted. The Budget (Attachment A) is adopted as the Final
Budget for the City of Bluffdale Redevelopment Agency for the Fiscal Year 2021-2022.

       Section 2.       Copy Delivered to Salt Lake County Auditor. A copy of the Budget
and Resolution shall be delivered to the Salt Lake County Auditor.

        Section 3.       Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon it passage and authorizes and directs the Redevelopment Agency Chairman to execute and
cause to be delivered the same.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED: June 09, 2021

                                                      CITY OF BLUFFDALE
                                                      REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY


                                                      ________________________________
                                                      Dave Kallas, Chairman

ATTEST:

_____________________________
Mark Reid, Secretary/Treasurer


Voting by the Board:                Aye      Nay

Mayor Timothy                       _____    ____
Board Member Aston                  _____    ____
Board Member Crockett               _____    ____
Board Member Gaston                 _____    ____
Board Member Hales                  _____    ____
Chair Kallas                        _____    ____
Attachment A
RDA Budget
