BLUFFDALE CITY                                                                                Mayor Natalie Hall
CITY COUNCIL,                                                                                 Councilmember Wendy Aston
MEETING AGENDA                                                                                Councilmember Traci Crockett
City Council Chambers                                                                         Councilmember Jeff Gaston
                                                                                              Councilmember Mark Hales
Wednesday, January 26, 2022, at 6:00 p.m.
                                                                                              Councilmember Dave Kallas


Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council, will hold a meeting on Wednesday, January 26, 2022, at Bluffdale City
Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. The meeting will begin at 6:00 PM or as soon thereafter as possible. This
meeting will also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. The public may comment at the meeting or by
emailing comments to councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com by 4:00 PM the day of the meeting. Emailed comments will
be submitted to the City Council but will not be read at the meeting. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by
the City Council may be by electronic means.
In the event the meeting is disrupted in any way that the City in its sole discretion deems inappropriate, the City reserves the
right to immediately remove the individual(s) from the meeting and, if needed, end virtual access to the meeting. Reasons
for removing an individual or ending virtual access to the meeting include but are not limited to the posting of offensive
pictures, remarks, or making offensive statements, disrespectful statements or actions, and other any action deemed
inappropriate.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION 6:00 P.M. (The work session is for identifying future items and other
council discussion. In accordance with Utah Code § 52-4-201(2)(a), while the meeting may be open to the public, there will
not be any opportunity for public input during the work session).
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call).
2.    Discussion/Presentation Items:
      2.1   Training on Robert’s Rules and Open and Public Meetings Act. (Staff presenter, Todd Sheeran)
3.    Council Discussion:
4.    Adjournment.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*).
2.    Minute and Agenda Approval:
      2.1   January 4, 2022, City Council Special Meeting.
      2.2   Approval of this meeting’s agenda.
3.    Mayor and Council Reports:
4.    Public Comment: (This is a time and place for any person who wishes to comment on items not scheduled on the
      agenda for public hearing. Any person or group wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public
      hearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his or her
      name for the record or by emailing councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Comments should be limited to not
      more than four (4) minutes, unless additional time is authorized by the Chair. Groups wishing to comment will be
      asked to appoint a spokesperson. Items brought forward to the attention of the City Council will be turned over to
      staff to provide a response outside of the City Council meeting.)
5.    Presentation Items:
      5.1   Administration of the Oath of Office to the Deputy City Recorder, Tamra Timothy. (Staff presenter,
            Judge Scott Mickelsen)


City Council Meeting – January 26, 2022                                                                             Page 1 of 2
6.    Consent Agenda: (These items are considered by the City Council to be routine and will be enacted by a single
      motion. If discussion is desired on any particular consent item, that item may be removed from the consent agenda
      and considered separately. No public comment will be permitted.)
      6.1   None.
7.    Public Hearing Items: (Public comments must abide by the requirements listed above).
      7.1   Ordinance No. 2022-04, a General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Application for 2.91 acres located
            at approximately 13820 South 2700 West from Very Low Density Residential to Neighborhood
            Commercial, applicant, Ryan Arnold. (Application 2021-46) (Staff Presenter, Ellen Oakman)
      7.2   Ordinance No. 2022-05, a Zoning Map Amendment Application for 2.91 acres located at
            approximately 13820 South 2700 West from R-1-43 Residential to Neighborhood Commercial,
            applicant, Ryan Arnold. (Application 2021-46) (Staff Presenter, Ellen Oakman)
8.    Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from Previous Meeting: (These items are considered by the City
      Council individually. No public comment will be permitted.)
      8.1   Resolution No. 2022-05, (tabled from January 12, 2022) Adopting a code of conduct and
            parliamentary procedure policy. (Staff presenter, Todd Sheeran)
      8.2   Resolution No. 2022-08, Approving the 2021 Water Conservation Plan Update. (Staff presenter, Dan
            Tracer)
      8.3   Discussion regarding truck parking and trucking routes. (Councilmember, Wendy Aston)
9.    Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items:
10.   Closed Meetings - if any: (This meeting will be closed to the public for one of the stated purposes found in Utah Code
      § 52-4-205(1), which is usually for one of the following purposes: discussion of the character, professional competence,
      or physical or mental health of an individual; discuss collective bargaining; discuss pending or reasonably imminent
      litigation; discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, including water rights or water shares).
11.   Adjournment.


                                                CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I hereby certify that the foregoing notice and agenda was submitted to the South Valley Journal, the Salt Lake Tribune, and
the Deseret News; posted at the Bluffdale City Hall and on the City’s website (www.bluffdale.com), delivered to each member
of the Bluffdale City Council; and posted on the Utah State Public Notice website (www.pmn.utah.gov).


Published and posted on January 20, 2022.



                                                             Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                             City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation
for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
*Contact the City Recorder if you desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.




City Council Meeting – January 26, 2022                                                                           Page 2 of 2
                   CODE OF CONDUCT AND PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURES



I.    INTRODUCTION

The Bluffdale City Council believes that all public servants need to maintain the highest
standards of ethical conduct. Of similar importance, there is an increasing expectation that
public meetings are conducted in a democratic manner. This policy is designed to describe the
manner in which the council should conduct themselves as a public servant. It also provides
the parliamentary procedure for meetings of the city council. While this policy is directed for
city council members, it shall also apply to city commissions, boards, and committees. This
policy will refer to members of the city council, including the mayor, as “members”.

II.   CODE OF CONDUCT

Elected and appointed officials are individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds,
personalities, values, opinions, and goals. Despite this diversity, all have chosen to serve in
public office in order to preserve and protect the present and the future of the community. In
all cases, the council shall comply with the below guidelines.

      A.   Compliance with Ethics Act. Members shall comply with all provisions of the
           Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act found in Utah Code § 10-3-1301 et seq.

      B. Mayoral Role. It is the responsibility of the mayor (as the chair) to keep the comments
         of the members and the public on track during public meetings. Members should
         honor efforts by the chair to focus discussion on current agenda items. If there is
         disagreement about the agenda or the chair’s actions, those objections should be
         voiced politely and with reason, following procedures outlined in parliamentary
         procedures below.

      C. Conduct of the Members. The professional and personal conduct of the members
         while exercising their office must be above reproach and avoid even the appearance
         of impropriety. Members shall refrain from abusive conduct, personal charges, or
         verbal attacks upon the character or motives of others.

      D. Discussions and Debate. Difficult questions, tough challenges to a particular point of
         view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements of debate by a
         free democracy in action. Free debate does not require nor justify, however, members
         to make belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or
         disparaging comments.

                                                     Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                           Page 1
   E.   Conduct at Public Meetings. Making the public feel welcome is an important part of
        the democratic process. No signs of partiality, prejudice, or disrespect should be
        evident on the part of a member towards an individual participating in a public forum.
        Every effort should be made to be fair and impartial in listening to public comment.

   F.   Confidential Information. Members shall maintain the confidentiality of all written
        materials and verbal information provided to members which is confidential or
        privileged, including items discussed in a closed meeting. Members shall neither
        disclose confidential information without proper authorization, nor use such
        information to advance their personal, financial, or other private interests.

   G. Conduct with Staff. Governance of the city relies on the cooperative efforts of elected
      officials, appointed officials, and city staff. Therefore, every effort should be made to
      be cooperative and show mutual respect for the contributions made by everyone for
      the good of the community.

   H. Positive Workplace Environment. Members shall support the maintenance of a
      positive and constructive workplace environment for staff and for citizens and
      businesses dealing with the city. Members shall recognize their special role in dealings
      with city employees to in no way create the perception of inappropriate direction to
      staff.

   I.   Sanctions. A member who intentionally and repeatedly do not follow proper conduct
        may be reprimanded or formally censured by the city council, lose assignments (both
        within the city and with other agencies) or other privileges afforded by the city council.
        Serious infractions of the Code of Conduct could lead to other sanctions as deemed
        appropriate by the city council.

III. PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.

   A.   Quorum. As stated by the Open and Public Meetings Act, a “meeting” is convened
        when a quorum present. A “quorum” is defined as “a simple majority of the
        membership of a public body.” It is good practice to not text during a public meeting,
        especially texting residents or other members.

   B. Pattern of Meetings. Councils usually follow a fixed pattern in conducting their
      meetings. The order is arranged for convenience and enables members to know in
      advance when each type of business will be considered. The order of business is at
      the discretion of the mayor.

   C. Agenda. Pursuant to BCC § 1.60.020.E., a written agenda for each regular meeting is
      prepared by the city manager. If any member desires to add an item or items to any
      prepared agenda, then written consent must be obtained from two members or from
      the mayor alone. Upon receiving the proper request from either two members or from

                                                     Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                           Page 2
     the mayor, the city manager will add or delete items to the agendas as requested. A
     majority vote is needed to delete an item from an agenda, which can be done before
     or during a council meeting.

D. Discussing Agenda Items. A member obtains the floor in the same manner as he does
   to propose a motion. Once a member has been recognized by the chair for the
   purpose of a statement, that person must be protected in his right to speak, so long
   as he observes the rules of decorum and confines his/her remarks to the subject.
   Debate is restricted to the measure under consideration, and neither its proposer nor
   his motives can be discussed. The rules of debate require that all discussion be
   impersonal and that it be addressed to the chair.

E.   How Motions Are Handled. In a broad sense a motion is a formal statement of a
     proposal for the governing body to consider and vote upon. It is well to become
     familiar with the steps of handling a motion and with their phraseology. Only after
     these mechanics of a motion become second nature can one concentrate on the
     content of the motion. The following are the steps in handling a motion:

     1   Addressing the Chair. Any member of the council may propose a motion. A
         member may do this at any appropriate time. To present a motion, a member
         addresses the chair by his/her official title; for example: “Mayor Smith”.
         Addressing the chair is equivalent to requesting permission to present a motion
         or to discuss a motion already presented.

     2   Recognition by the Chair. The chair recognizes a member by calling their name, or
         by nodding to them, or by designating that person in some other way. As soon as
         the chair recognizes a member, that member is entitled to the undivided
         attention of the council while that person proposes or discusses a motion.

     3   Proposing a Motion. A motion is a proposal that the assembly take certain actions.
         It is always stated in the form: “I move …” followed by the proposal to be
         considered. This is the correct form for proposing a motion because it
         establishes, as a motion, the proposal which follows. Such introductory phrases
         as “I suggest,” or “I move you,” or “I so move,” may get the desired result, but are
         not good form. Motions should be made in the positive and not in the negative.
         A correct example is “I move to approve …” not “I move to deny …”

     4   Seconding a Motion. After a member has proposed a motion, it is then in order for
         another member to second the motion. The seconding member says: “I second
         the motion.” If the chair does not hear a second to a motion, the chair should ask,
         “Is there a second to the motion that …” and repeat the motion, since it may be
         that some of the members have not understood its meaning. If no second is
         forthcoming, the mayor declares the motion “lost for want of a second.”
         Seconding a motion means that the seconder wishes to have the motion

                                                Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                      Page 3
    presented to the assembly for consideration. It does not necessarily imply that
    the seconder favors the motion or intends to vote for it. Requirement of a motion
    and a second is based on the belief that at least two members should be
    interested in the discussion of a proposition before a motion is presented to the
    assembly.

5   Statement of Motion by the Chair. As soon as a motion has been properly moved
    and seconded, it is the duty of the chair to state the motion promptly to the
    council. Until the chair has done so, the motion is under the control of its maker
    and can be withdrawn or modified by him as he wishes. Once the motion has been
    stated to the council, it is in the possession of the body to do with it as it chooses.
    If a motion is proposed in a form which is misleading, vague, or overly
    complicated, it is the duty of the chair to request the member to rephrase the
    motion. If the chair rephrases the motion, the chair should make sure that the
    meaning is not changed. The chair should ask the member whether the rephrased
    motion, as stated to the council, expresses the proposal correctly. If a motion
    proposes action which is contrary to law, rules, is obviously dilatory (that is, made
    for the purpose of delaying business), or is completely unsuitable for the
    consideration of the council, the chair should rule it out of order. The chair may
    say, “The chair rules your motion out of order,” and state the reason for so doing.

6   Voting on a Motion. When it appears that all members who wish to discuss the
    question have done so, the chair may inquire: “Is there any further discussion?”
    or “Are you ready for the vote?” This query gives notice that debate is about to
    close, and that if any member wishes to claim the floor, they should do so
    immediately. If no one claims the floor, the chair, after a pause, puts the question
    to vote. The announcement of the vote by the chair is the last step in the
    production line which has carried the motion from its introduction by an
    individual member to its disposal by vote of the council.

7   Amending a Motion. An amendment is a motion to change, to add words to, or to
    omit words from, an original motion. The change is usually to clarify or improve
    the wording of the original motion and must, of course, be germane to that
    motion. A motion to amend requires a majority vote. The chair should allow full
    discussion of the amendment (being careful to restrict debate to the amendment,
    not the original motion) and should then have a vote taken on the amendment
    only, making sure the members know they are voting on the amendment, but not
    on the original motion. If the amendment is defeated, another amendment may
    be proposed, or discussion will proceed on the original motion. An amendment
    to an amendment is a motion to change, to add words to, or omit words from, the
    first amendment. The rules for an amendment (above) apply here, except that the
    amendment to an amendment is not itself amendable and that it takes


                                             Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                   Page 4
         precedence over the first amendment. Only one amendment to an amendment
         is permissible.

F.   The Precedence And Classification Of Motions. The rank of motions, which is called
     “precedence,” keeps the business of the meeting going with efficiency, and every
     motion is attended to in its proper turn. The order of precedence of motions is based
     on the degree of their urgency; and it is logical and easy to understand. The following
     is a list of the more important motions, arranged in the order of their precedence are
     listed in the table below.

     1   Four Types of Motions.

         a   Main Motions. This group is made up of motions which bring subjects (as
             contrasted with procedural questions) before the council for decision. These
             motions constitute the principal business of a meeting. They are the most
             important of all motions because they bring the main business before the
             meeting.

         b   Subsidiary Motions. This group is made up of seven motions which are
             alternative methods of changing or disposing of the main motion. Their
             name derives from the fact that they are subsidiary to the main motion and,
             therefore, can be proposed only when a main motion is before the council. If
             a main motion is pending and some members do not wish to vote on it
             directly at the time, they have several choices as to how the motion may be
             modified or disposed of. For example, one member may believe that it is an
             unsuitable motion for the council to consider and may move to postpone it
             indefinitely. Another may think that the motion should be changed so that it
             conforms more closely to the ideas of the council and may move to amend it.

         c   Incidental Motions. The motions of this group arise incidentally out of the
             business that is before the council. In general, they are concerned with the
             rights and privileges of members. They have only a few characteristics in
             common. The purpose of this group of motions is to handle procedural
             problems which arise out of the consideration of other questions. These
             problems, naturally, must be settled before consideration can be given to the
             question out of which they arise. Incidental motions are not included in the
             list of precedence because they may be proposed at any time and must be
             decided whenever they arise. Therefore, they present no problem of
             precedence.

         d   Privileged Motions. This small group is composed of motions which are so
             important that they are given privileges not accorded to other motion. They
             are, in effect, main motions that, because of their urgency, must be decided


                                                Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                      Page 5
        before the pending question. They relate to the members and to the council
        rather than to the main motion.

2   Rules of Precedence. The chief purpose of dividing motions into four groups is to
    determine their rank or precedence. This rank is fixed and definite and is based
    on logical reasoning. It is simple to understand and to apply. It is not necessary
    to memorize the precedence of the important motions. Practice in using them
    will soon fix their rank in your mind because their order is so logical that they
    could not be effectively arranged in any radically different way. There are two
    important rules of precedence: 1. When a motion is pending, any motion of a
    higher rank may be proposed, but no motion of lower rank is in order. The motion
    to adjourn (No. 1) has the highest rank, and a main motion (No. 11) has the lowest.
    If a main motion (No. 11) is pending, any motion of higher rank (No. 10 to 1) can
    be proposed. If No. 8 is pending, No. 7 to No. 1 can all be proposed, but No. 9 or
    No. 10 cannot. 2. Motions are considered and voted upon in inverse order to the
    order of their proposal, the last one proposed being considered and disposed of
    first. For example, if motions No. 11, 10, 7 and 2 were proposed in that order, they
    would be considered and voted upon in the following order: No. 2, 7, 10 and 11.




                                           Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                 Page 6
IV. PRINCIPAL RULES GOVERNING MOTIONS

Order of Precedence                    Can Interrupt   Requires a   Debatable?     Amendable?           Vote Required?
                                       Speaker?        Second?
Privileged Motions (Top Priority)
   1. Adjourn                          No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   2. Recess                           No              Yes          No             Yes                  Majority
   3. Question of Privilege            Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
Subsidiary Motions (Second Priority)
   4. Postpone Temporarily             No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   5. Vote Immediately                 No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   6. Limit Debate                     No              Yes          No             Yes                  Two-thirds
   7. Postpone Definitely              No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   8. Refer to Committee               No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   9. Amend or Substitute              No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   10. Postpone Indefinitely           No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Main Motions (Last Priority)
   11. General Main Motion             No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Incidental Motions (Resolve
immediately)                           Yes             Yes          Yes            No                   Tie or Majority
   12. Appeal                          Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   13. Point of Order                  Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   14. Parliamentary Inquiry           No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   15. Withdraw a Motion               No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   16. Suspend Rules                   Yes             No           No             No                   Two-thirds
   17. Object to Consideration         No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   18. Division of a Question          Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   19. Division of Assembly

                                                                                 Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                                                       Page 7
V.   DEFINITIONS

     ADJOURN: To terminate a meeting officially.

     ADOPT: To approve, to give effect to.

     AFFIRMATIVE VOTE: A “yes” or “aye” vote to a question before a council; an agreement to
     its acceptance.

     AGENDA: The official list of business to be considered at a meeting.

     AMEND: To change, by adding, deleting, or substituting works or provisions.

     ANNUL: To void or cancel an action previously taken.

     APPEAL: A decision of the presiding officer may be appealed from. An appeal requires that
     the decision be referred to the council for its determination by a vote.

     DEBATABLE: Capable of being discussed.

     DIVISION OF QUESTION: Separation of a main motion into two or more independent parts,
     each of which is capable of standing alone.

     GENERAL CONSENT: An informal method of disposing of routine and generally favored
     proposals by the chairman assuming the group’s approval, unless objection is raised. Also
     called “unanimous consent.”

     INCIDENTAL MOTIONS: Motions relating to questions that arise incidentally out of the
     business, or order or manner of considering the business of a council.

     LIMIT DEBATE: To place restrictions on the time to be devoted to debate on a question or
     the number of speakers or the time allotted each.

     MAIN MOTION: A motion presenting a subject to a council for discussion and decision.

     NEW BUSINESS: Any business other than unfinished or “old business” that may properly
     be brought before a council.

     OBJECT TO CONSIDERATION: To oppose discussion and decision of a main motion.

     ORDER OF BUSINESS: The formal program of sequence of different items or classes of
     business arranged in the order in which they are to be considered.

     ORDINANCE: Law made by the legislative body of a municipality.



                                                    Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                          Page 8
PENDING QUESTION: A question, or motion, before the council which has not yet been
voted upon.

POINT OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE: A challenge to a speaker to defend or apologize for
comments that a fellow member considers offensive.

POSTPONE TEMPORARILY: To defer consideration of a motion until the council chooses to
take it up again. The old form of the motion was “lay on the table.”

PRECEDENCE: The right of prior proposal and consideration of one motion over another,
or the order or priority of consideration.

PRIVILEGED MOTIONS: The class of motions having the highest priority.

QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE: Request or motion affecting the comfort or convenience of the
council or one of its members.

RECONSIDER: Motion to cancel the effect of a vote so that the question may be reviewed
and redecided.

REFER TO COMMITTEE: Motion to delegate work to a small group of members for study,
decision or action.

RESUME CONSIDERATION: To take up for consideration a motion that has been tabled.
The old form of the motion was “take from the table.”

SPECIAL COMMITTEE: A committee appointed to accomplish a particular task and to
submit a special report. It ceases to exist when its task is completed.

SPECIAL MEETING: A meeting called to consider certain specific business that must be set
forth in the call.

STANDING COMMITTEE: A committee to handle all business on a certain subject that may
be referred to it, and usually having a term of service corresponding to the term of office
of the officers of the organization.

TABLE TO A TIME CERTAIN: To defer consideration of a motion or report until a specific
time.

TABLE TO A TIME UNCERTAIN: To postpone a motion until a later, but as yet undetermined,
time.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS: Any business deferred by a motion to postpone to a definite time,
or any business that was incomplete when the previous meeting adjourned. Unfinished
business has a preferred status at the following meeting.

                                               Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                     Page 9
VIVA VOCE VOTE : A vote taken by calling for " ayes" and " noes" and judged by volume of
voice response. Sometimes called "voice vote."

VOTE IMMEDIATELY: Motion to close debate, shut off subsidiary motion and take a vote at
once.

WITHDRAW: Motion by a member to remove his motion from consideration by the council.




                                              Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                   Page 10
                                                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                                SPECIAL MEETING AGENDA
                                                Tuesday, January 04, 2022

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council will hold a special meeting Tuesday, January 04, 2022, at the Bluffdale City Hall,
2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah, scheduled to begin promptly at 6:00 p.m. or as soon thereafter as possible. This meeting will
also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by the Mayor and or
City Council may be by electronic means via telephonic conference call.

ADMINISTRATION OF THE OATH OF OFFICE FOR NEWLY ELECTED OFFICIALS 6:00 P.M.

 1. Roll Call

 2. Mayor Elect, Natalie Hall; Council Members Elect, Wendy Aston, and Traci Crockett, administered by Judge
    Scott Mickelsen.

 3. Adjournment

 4. Social for photographs and refreshments.

Dated this 29th day of December, 2021

I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING NOTICE AND AGENDA WAS EMAILED TO THE SOUTH VALLEY JOURNAL, THE SALT LAKE
TRIBUNE, AND THE DESERET NEWS; POSTED AT THE BLUFFDALE CITY HALL; EMAILED OR DELIVERED TO EACH MEMBER OF THE
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL; ON THE CITY’S WEBSITE AT WWW.BLUFFDALE.COM AND ON THE PUBLIC MEETING NOTICE WEBSITE,
WWW.PMN.UTAH.GOV




                                                                 Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                                 City Recorder

In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this
meeting should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                    SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
                                       Tuesday, January 4, 2022

 1   Present:        Mayor Natalie Hall
 2                   Wendy Aston
 3                   Traci Crockett
 4                   Mark Hales
 5                   Dave Kallas
 6
 7   Staff:          Mark Reid, City Manager
 8                   Courtney Armstrong, Accounting Technician
 9                   Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
10                   Judge Scott Mickelsen
11
12   Excused:        Jeff Gaston
13
14   Mayor Pro Tempore Wendy Aston called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
15
16   ADMINISTRATION OF THE OATH OF OFFICE FOR NEWLY ELECTED OFFICIALS
17
18   1.       Roll Call.
19
20   Mayor Pro Tem Aston thanked those present for their attendance. She asked Mayor Elect Natalie
21   Hall to sit with the City Council. Mayor Elect Hall welcomed those present and stated that Pastor
22   Doug Hornok would lead the Pledge of Allegiance and offer the Invocation. Pastor Hornok wanted
23   to first share encouragement with the City Council. He referenced the story of King Solomon and
24   read from 1 Kings 3:9. Pastor Hornok hoped all in a position of leadership and who serves the
25   community will consider that message. Pastor Hornok offered the Invocation and led the Pledge.
26
27   All members of the City Council were present with the exception of Jeff Gaston, who was excused.
28
29   2.       Mayor Elect, Natalie Hall; Council Members Elect, Wendy Aston and Traci Crockett,
30            Administered by Judge Scott Mickelsen.
31
32   Judge Scott Mickelsen administered the Oath of Office to Council Members Wendy Aston and
33   Traci Crockett. He then administered the Oath of Office to Mayor Elect Hall. City Manager, Mark
34   Reid recognized Mayor Hall and presented her with an engraved gavel. Mayor Hall, on behalf of
35   the City Council, thanked all of the friends, family, and residents in attendance. She stated that
36   her goal is to make Bluffdale the best City it can be and stressed the importance of unity.
37



                                                      1
                          DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                   SPECIAL MEETING MINUTES
                                      Tuesday, January 4, 2022

 1   Mayor Hall recognized Mayor Derk Timothy for his 12 years of dedicated service. She noted that
 2   not only did he serve Bluffdale for 12 years, but he had a full-time job in addition to his
 3   responsibilities within the City. He did a lot for Bluffdale. Mayor Hall encouraged those present
 4   to look at the January 2022 Bluffdale Newsletter to read about his many accomplishments.
 5
 6   Mayor Hall hoped the Invocation offered by Pastor Hornok would be considered by the City
 7   Council. She stressed the importance of having “soft hearts and thick skins” and working together.
8    Judge Mickelsen asked Council Members Aston and Crockett and Mayor Hall to sign their Oath
9    of Office. The Oath of Office documents were signed by the appropriate parties.
10
11   3.     Adjournment.
12
13   Dave Kallas moved to adjourn the Bluffdale City Council Special Meeting. Mark Hales
14   seconded the motion. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.
15
16   4.     Social for Photographs and Refreshments.
17
18   The City Council and those present enjoyed refreshments and took photographs.
19
20   5.     Adjourn.
21
22   The Bluffdale City Council Special Meeting adjourned at 6:13 p.m.




                                                     2
                              REQUEST FOR CITY COUNCIL ACTION
To:                              Mayor and City Council
From:                            Ellen Oakman, Associate Planner
Date:                            January 19, 2022
Business Date:                   January 26, 2022
Subject:                         General Plan Land Use and Zoning Map Amendment Applications for 2.91
                                 acres from R-1-43 zone to NC zone and from Very Low Density Residential
                                 land use to NC land use for future development of an assisted living
                                 facility located at 13820 South 2700 West.
Applicants:                      Ryan Arnold, Mervyn Arnold
Staff Presentation:              Ellen Oakman

RECOMMENDATION: To approve the General Plan and Zoning Map Amendment Application (2021-46) for 2.91
acres as recommended by the Planning Commission 5-0.

BACKGROUND:
The subject property is located west of 2700 W, adjacent to other commercial property, planned for
commercial activity in the past few years. This commercial area near 2700 W is a gateway to the community. It
is a commercial area with commercial opportunities bounded by 2950 W and the canal to the east. To the east
of the subject property, is GC-1 General Commercial zoning, and to the west is primarily R-1-43 Residential
zoning. At the City Council meeting on January 12, 2022, the property immediately adjacent was rezoned to
GC-1 from R-1-43, with a development agreement to mitigate any negative impacts to the residential area.

This request is to allow the subject property to amend the General Plan Land Use Map and Zoning Map to
Neighborhood Commercial (NC). The existing land use is Very Low Density Residential and the applicants are
proposing to amend it to the NC land use. The existing zoning is R-1-43 Residential and they are proposing to
amend it to the NC zone. The applicant is proposing an assisted living facility for the site. The NC zoning
allows for assisted living facilities as a conditional use. If the applications are approved, the applicants are
subject to site plan and conditional use approval at a future date. This would be the first residential facility for
elderly within the city. This location provides proximity to other amenities to benefit this type of land use.
Proximity to Bangerter Hwy allows easy access to services such as parks, potential commercial services and
even a hospital within the area. The General Plan identifies the city’s desire to provide high quality housing
options for all life stages.

APPROVAL CRITERIA FOR THE APPLICATION:
Land Use and Zoning Map amendments are a legislative decision of the City Council, after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission. Broad discretion is given to the City’s Land Use Authorities
when making these policy decisions. Considerations for amending the Land Use and Zoning Map may include,
but not limited to: opportunities for future development to balance the goals of the City and property owners,
adequate infrastructure, and meeting the overall needs of the community for future economic growth. The
Planning Commission should establish adequate findings in support of a positive or negative outcome and
forward those findings to the City Council.

RECOMMENDATION OF POSSIBLE FINDINGS: The following are possible findings the City Council could
include as approval for the rezone of the subject property:
     1. That the zoning amendment provides the scale and types of businesses that contributes to
         neighborhood character.
     2. That the zoning amendment will provide low intensity neighborhood uses, such as assisted living.
PREVIOUS ACTIONS:
      - January 5, 2022: Planning Commission recommended approval of the application vote 5-0.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION:
     - Staff Report dated January 3, 2022
     - Enabling Ordinances for Land Use and Zoning
                         2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                     Community Development Department
                                               Planning Division


                                                 STAFF REPORT
                                                 3 January 2022

To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Ellen Oakman, Associate Planner, on behalf of the DRC

Re: General Plan Land Use and Zoning Map Amendments Application to Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
       Application No:        2021-46
       Applicant(s):          Ryan Arnold, Mervyn Arnold
       Project Location:      Approximately 13820 S 2700 W
       General Plan:          Very Low Density Residential
       Current Zoning:        R-1-43 Single-Family Residential
       Acreage:               2.91 acres
       Request:               The Applicant requests consideration of amendments to the General Plan
                              Land Use and Zoning Maps to NC, for the development of a proposed
                              assisted living facility and to provide a recommendation to the City
                              Council.

SUMMARY
The subject property of 2.91 acres is located near Bangerter Highway, between 2700 W and 2950 W. It is
adjacent to property in the R-1-43 Single-family residential zone and the GC-1 General Commercial zone.
The applicant proposes that the subject property be amended in the General Plan Land Use Map and the
Zoning Map. They request to amend the General Plan Land Use Map to the Neighborhood Commercial
Land Use from the Very Low Density Residential Land Use. They also propose to amend the Zoning Map to
the Neighborhood Commercial (NC) zone from the existing R-1-43 Single-Family Residential zone.

The applicant desires to develop an assisted living facility to allow the older population of the community
a place to live, to meet the unique needs that come with aging – in regards to physical and mental
limitations. Currently in the NC zone, assisted living facilities are classified as Conditional Uses (as per the
land use table in 11.350.020). The Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority for conditional use
permits.


ANALYSIS
General Plan
Existing: Very Low Density Residential
The City General Plan provides a land use area identified as Very Low Density Residential. This land use

                                      General Plan Land Use and Zoning Map Application – to NC Neighborhood Commercial
                                                                                                   Ryan Arnold, Applicant
                                                                          January 5, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                  Page 1
consists of Large-lot residential and agricultural properties. Development may be clustered pursuant to
applicable zoning regulations to avoid environmental constraints (e.g., floodplain), protect sensitive features
(e.g., critical wildlife habitat), or create shared public or private open space.

Existing Land Use


                                                            Proposed: Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
                                                            The City General Plan provides a land use type
                                                            identified as Neighborhood Commercial. This land
                                                            use consists of low intensity neighborhood support
                                                            uses, such as small-scale and convenience retail,
                                                            professional office, personal service, child care,
educational, business service, medical offices, assisted living, and other “nine-to-five” uses that are
compatible with adjacent residential use.


Zoning Map.
Existing: R-1-43 Single-Family Residential
Existing Zoning


                                                        Proposed: Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
                                                        Amending the subject property zoning to NC would
                                                        be consistent with the proposed land use of NC, if
                                                        approved, as defined in the General Plan. The
                                                        subject property is adjacent to the north of the R-1-
                                                        43 Residential zone, with an existing residence, and
GC-1 General Commercial is adjacent to the east. R-1-43 zoning is currently adjacent to the west, but an
application with a potential rezone to GC-1 zoning, and associated development agreement for office uses
is on the City Council agenda in January 2022, and which has already received a positive recommendation
from the Planning Commission, which will place the subject property between GC-1 on the east and west.

The proposed zoning, Neighborhood Commercial would be less intensive, with less uses permitted than
the adjacent GC-1 zone.




                                     General Plan Land Use and Zoning Map Application – to NC Neighborhood Commercial
                                                                                                  Ryan Arnold, Applicant
                                                                         January 5, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                 Page 2
                NC and GC-1 differ in intensity in many uses, but have similarities as well.
                          (P = Permitted, C = Conditional, N = Not Permitted)
                                   Excerpt from BCC Table 11.350.020



               Proposed Uses                                             GC-1     NC
               Assisted living facility                                    N       C
               Automobile and recreational vehicle sales                   P       N
               Automotive service                                          P       N
               Car wash                                                    P       N
               Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale             P       N
               Convenience store/gas station                               P       P
               Hospital                                                    C       N
               Hotel                                                       P       N
               Movie theater                                               P       N
               Nursing home                                                P       P
               Office, general                                             P       P
               Personal instruction service                                P       P
               Personal service establishment                              P       P
               Preschool/daycare center                                    P       P
               Reception center                                            P       N
               Recreation and entertainment (indoor)                       P       N
               Repair service                                              P       P
               Research and development laboratories                       P       N
               Restaurant                                                  P       P
               Retail, general                                             P       P
               Trade or technical schools                                  P       N
               Veterinary service                                          P       P



APPROVAL CRITERIA FOR THE APPLICATION:
Land Use and Zoning Map amendments are a legislative decision of the City Council, after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission. Broad discretion is given to the City’s Land Use
Authorities when making these policy decisions. Considerations for amending the Zoning Map may
include, but not limited to: opportunities for future development to balance the goals of the City and
property owners, adequate infrastructure, and meeting the overall needs of the community for future
economic growth. The Planning Commission should establish adequate findings in support of a positive or
negative outcome and forward those findings to the City Council.


                                     General Plan Land Use and Zoning Map Application – to NC Neighborhood Commercial
                                                                                                  Ryan Arnold, Applicant
                                                                         January 5, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                 Page 3
RECOMMENDATION OF POSSIBLE FINDINGS: The following are possible findings the Planning
Commission could include as a recommendation to the City Council for the rezone of the subject property:
   1. That the zoning amendment provides the scale and types of businesses that contributes to
      neighborhood character.
   2. That the zoning amendment will provide low intensity neighborhood uses, such as assisted living.


MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE APPLICATION:
Model for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the Zoning Map Amendment (2021-46) based on the findings by the Planning Commission which are
(and including the following additional findings):”


       1.    List all findings for approval…

Motion for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the Zoning Map Amendment (2021-46) based on the following findings:”


       1.      List all findings for denial…

ATTACHMENTS
   1. Aerial map of subject property
   2. General Plan Land Use Map of subject property
   3. Zoning Map of subject property




                                    General Plan Land Use and Zoning Map Application – to NC Neighborhood Commercial
                                                                                                 Ryan Arnold, Applicant
                                                                        January 5, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                Page 4
Aerial Map




Land Use Map




Zoning Map




               General Plan Land Use and Zoning Map Application – to NC Neighborhood Commercial
                                                                            Ryan Arnold, Applicant
                                                   January 5, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                           Page 5
                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2022-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING THE
CITY OF BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN LAND USE MAP FROM VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
TO NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ON PROPERTY APPROXIMATELY LOCATED AT 13820
SOUTH 2700 WEST.

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council has adopted the General Plan Land Use Map for
Bluffdale City; and

       WHEREAS, the Applicant requested that the City Council amend the General Plan Land
Use Map from Very Low Density Residential to Neighborhood Commercial on property generally
located at 13820 South 2700 West; and

     WHEREAS, the Bluffdale Planning Commission reviewed Applicant’s proposed
amendment and made a recommendation to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing concerning the proposed amendment;
and

      WHEREAS, the City Council finds that amending the General Plan Land Use Map as
proposed by the Applicant will enhance the public health, safety and general welfare, and
promote the goals of the General Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:

       SECTION 1. General Plan Land Use Map Amendment. The property described in
Exhibit A is hereby amended to change the future land use designation from Very Low Density
Residential to Neighborhood Commercial.

        SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

                                  [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                                                           Page 1 of 2
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS
______ DAY OF _________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                 YES       NO     ABSTAIN   ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                           Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                      City                 Recorder




                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
                                              EXHIBIT A

                                 (Legal Description of the Property)

13820 South 2700 West
2.91 acres
                                        Parcel: 33043260350000


A tract of land, situate in the NE1/4SW1/4 of Section 4, Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base
and Meridian. The boundaries of said tract of land as follows: Beginning at a point 662.12 feet North
89°51’ West and 280.0 feet South 00°00’53” West from the Center of said Section 4 and running thence
South 00°00’53” West 383.13 feet; thence North 89°52’22” West 331.16 feet; thence North 00°01’21”
East 383.13 feet; thence South 89°52’22” East 331.11 feet to the point of beginning.
                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2022-05

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, REZONING
PROPERTY APPROXIMATELY LOCATED AT 13820 SOUTH 2700 WEST FROM THE R-1-43 ZONE
TO THE NC ZONE.

     WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council has adopted the Zoning Ordinance with the
accompanying Zoning Map; and

       WHEREAS, the Applicant proposed that the City Council amend the Zoning Map by
rezoning the below-described property; and

      WHEREAS, the Bluffdale Planning Commission reviewed the proposed rezoning and
made a recommendation to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing concerning the proposed rezoning; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the rezoning will enhance the public health, safety
and welfare and promote the goals of the General Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Rezone. The property described in Exhibit A is hereby reclassified from the
R-1-43 Zone to the NC Zone.

        SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

                                  [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                                                           Page 1 of 2
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS
______ DAY OF _________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                 YES       NO     ABSTAIN   ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                           Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                      City                 Recorder




                                                                                 Page 2 of 2
                                              EXHIBIT A

                                 (Legal Description of the Property)


13820 South 2700 West
2.91 acres
                                        Parcel: 33043260350000


A tract of land, situate in the NE1/4SW1/4 of Section 4, Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base
and Meridian. The boundaries of said tract of land as follows: Beginning at a point 662.12 feet North
89°51’ West and 280.0 feet South 00°00’53” West from the Center of said Section 4 and running thence
South 00°00’53” West 383.13 feet; thence North 89°52’22” West 331.16 feet; thence North 00°01’21”
East 383.13 feet; thence South 89°52’22” East 331.11 feet to the point of beginning.
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2022-05

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ADOPTING A CODE OF
CONDUCT AND PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE POLICY.

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”), from time to time, reviews and
adopts policies and procedures to assist in the efficient utilization of resources and the fair and
uniform application of requirements and benefits to employees of the City of Bluffdale (the “City”);
and

         WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed policy to adopt and has
determined that the proposal is in the best interest of the City, including its employees, elected
official, appointed officials, and residents; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Adoption. The City Council does hereby adopt the policy attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

      SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF
_________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                     YES       NO    ABSTAIN        ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                               Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                          City Recorder




                                                                                           Page 1 of 1
                   CODE OF CONDUCT AND PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURES



I.    INTRODUCTION

The Bluffdale City Council believes that all public servants need to maintain the highest
standards of ethical conduct. Of similar importance, there is an increasing expectation that
public meetings are conducted in a democratic manner. This policy is designed to describe the
manner in which the council should conduct themselves as a public servant. It also provides
the parliamentary procedure for meetings of the city council. While this policy is directed for
city council members, it shall also apply to city commissions, boards, and committees. This
policy will refer to members of the city council, including the mayor, as “members”.

II.   CODE OF CONDUCT

Elected and appointed officials are individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds,
personalities, values, opinions, and goals. Despite this diversity, all have chosen to serve in
public office in order to preserve and protect the present and the future of the community. In
all cases, the council shall comply with the below guidelines.

      A.   Compliance with Ethics Act. Members shall comply with all provisions of the
           Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act found in Utah Code § 10-3-1301 et seq.

      B. Mayoral Role. It is the responsibility of the mayor (as the chair) to keep the comments
         of the members and the public on track during public meetings. Members should
         honor efforts by the chair to focus discussion on current agenda items. If there is
         disagreement about the agenda or the chair’s actions, those objections should be
         voiced politely and with reason, following procedures outlined in parliamentary
         procedures below.

      C. Conduct of the Members. The professional and personal conduct of the members
         while exercising their office must be above reproach and avoid even the appearance
         of impropriety. Members shall refrain from abusive conduct, personal charges, or
         verbal attacks upon the character or motives of others.

      D. Discussions and Debate. Difficult questions, tough challenges to a particular point of
         view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements of debate by a
         free democracy in action. Free debate does not require nor justify, however, members
         to make belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or
         disparaging comments.

                                                     Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                           Page 1
   E.   Conduct at Public Meetings. Making the public feel welcome is an important part of
        the democratic process. No signs of partiality, prejudice, or disrespect should be
        evident on the part of a member towards an individual participating in a public forum.
        Every effort should be made to be fair and impartial in listening to public comment.

   F.   Confidential Information. Members shall maintain the confidentiality of all written
        materials and verbal information provided to members which is confidential or
        privileged, including items discussed in a closed meeting. Members shall neither
        disclose confidential information without proper authorization, nor use such
        information to advance their personal, financial, or other private interests.

   G. Conduct with Staff. Governance of the city relies on the cooperative efforts of elected
      officials, appointed officials, and city staff. Therefore, every effort should be made to
      be cooperative and show mutual respect for the contributions made by everyone for
      the good of the community.

   H. Positive Workplace Environment. Members shall support the maintenance of a
      positive and constructive workplace environment for staff and for citizens and
      businesses dealing with the city. Members shall recognize their special role in dealings
      with city employees to in no way create the perception of inappropriate direction to
      staff.

   I.   Sanctions. A member who intentionally and repeatedly do not follow proper conduct
        may be reprimanded or formally censured by the city council, lose assignments (both
        within the city and with other agencies) or other privileges afforded by the city council.
        Serious infractions of the Code of Conduct could lead to other sanctions as deemed
        appropriate by the city council.

III. PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.

   A.   Quorum. As stated by the Open and Public Meetings Act, a “meeting” is convened
        when a quorum present. A “quorum” is defined as “a simple majority of the
        membership of a public body.” It is good practice to not text during a public meeting,
        especially texting residents or other members.

   B. Pattern of Meetings. Councils usually follow a fixed pattern in conducting their
      meetings. The order is arranged for convenience and enables members to know in
      advance when each type of business will be considered. The order of business is at
      the discretion of the mayor.

   C. Agenda. Pursuant to BCC § 1.60.020.E., a written agenda for each regular meeting is
      prepared by the city manager. If any member desires to add an item or items to any
      prepared agenda, then written consent must be obtained from two members or from
      the mayor alone. Upon receiving the proper request from either two members or from

                                                     Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                           Page 2
     the mayor, the city manager will add or delete items to the agendas as requested. A
     majority vote is needed to delete an item from an agenda, which can be done before
     or during a council meeting.

D. Discussing Agenda Items. A member obtains the floor in the same manner as he does
   to propose a motion. Once a member has been recognized by the chair for the
   purpose of a statement, that person must be protected in his right to speak, so long
   as he observes the rules of decorum and confines his/her remarks to the subject.
   Debate is restricted to the measure under consideration, and neither its proposer nor
   his motives can be discussed. The rules of debate require that all discussion be
   impersonal and that it be addressed to the chair.

E.   How Motions Are Handled. In a broad sense a motion is a formal statement of a
     proposal for the governing body to consider and vote upon. It is well to become
     familiar with the steps of handling a motion and with their phraseology. Only after
     these mechanics of a motion become second nature can one concentrate on the
     content of the motion. The following are the steps in handling a motion:

     1   Addressing the Chair. Any member of the council may propose a motion. A
         member may do this at any appropriate time. To present a motion, a member
         addresses the chair by his/her official title; for example: “Mayor Smith”.
         Addressing the chair is equivalent to requesting permission to present a motion
         or to discuss a motion already presented.

     2   Recognition by the Chair. The chair recognizes a member by calling their name, or
         by nodding to them, or by designating that person in some other way. As soon as
         the chair recognizes a member, that member is entitled to the undivided
         attention of the council while that person proposes or discusses a motion.

     3   Proposing a Motion. A motion is a proposal that the assembly take certain actions.
         It is always stated in the form: “I move …” followed by the proposal to be
         considered. This is the correct form for proposing a motion because it
         establishes, as a motion, the proposal which follows. Such introductory phrases
         as “I suggest,” or “I move you,” or “I so move,” may get the desired result, but are
         not good form. Motions should be made in the positive and not in the negative.
         A correct example is “I move to approve …” not “I move to deny …”

     4   Seconding a Motion. After a member has proposed a motion, it is then in order for
         another member to second the motion. The seconding member says: “I second
         the motion.” If the chair does not hear a second to a motion, the chair should ask,
         “Is there a second to the motion that …” and repeat the motion, since it may be
         that some of the members have not understood its meaning. If no second is
         forthcoming, the mayor declares the motion “lost for want of a second.”
         Seconding a motion means that the seconder wishes to have the motion

                                                Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                      Page 3
    presented to the assembly for consideration. It does not necessarily imply that
    the seconder favors the motion or intends to vote for it. Requirement of a motion
    and a second is based on the belief that at least two members should be
    interested in the discussion of a proposition before a motion is presented to the
    assembly.

5   Statement of Motion by the Chair. As soon as a motion has been properly moved
    and seconded, it is the duty of the chair to state the motion promptly to the
    council. Until the chair has done so, the motion is under the control of its maker
    and can be withdrawn or modified by him as he wishes. Once the motion has been
    stated to the council, it is in the possession of the body to do with it as it chooses.
    If a motion is proposed in a form which is misleading, vague, or overly
    complicated, it is the duty of the chair to request the member to rephrase the
    motion. If the chair rephrases the motion, the chair should make sure that the
    meaning is not changed. The chair should ask the member whether the rephrased
    motion, as stated to the council, expresses the proposal correctly. If a motion
    proposes action which is contrary to law, rules, is obviously dilatory (that is, made
    for the purpose of delaying business), or is completely unsuitable for the
    consideration of the council, the chair should rule it out of order. The chair may
    say, “The chair rules your motion out of order,” and state the reason for so doing.

6   Voting on a Motion. When it appears that all members who wish to discuss the
    question have done so, the chair may inquire: “Is there any further discussion?”
    or “Are you ready for the vote?” This query gives notice that debate is about to
    close, and that if any member wishes to claim the floor, they should do so
    immediately. If no one claims the floor, the chair, after a pause, puts the question
    to vote. The announcement of the vote by the chair is the last step in the
    production line which has carried the motion from its introduction by an
    individual member to its disposal by vote of the council.

7   Amending a Motion. An amendment is a motion to change, to add words to, or to
    omit words from, an original motion. The change is usually to clarify or improve
    the wording of the original motion and must, of course, be germane to that
    motion. A motion to amend requires a majority vote. The chair should allow full
    discussion of the amendment (being careful to restrict debate to the amendment,
    not the original motion) and should then have a vote taken on the amendment
    only, making sure the members know they are voting on the amendment, but not
    on the original motion. If the amendment is defeated, another amendment may
    be proposed, or discussion will proceed on the original motion. An amendment
    to an amendment is a motion to change, to add words to, or omit words from, the
    first amendment. The rules for an amendment (above) apply here, except that the
    amendment to an amendment is not itself amendable and that it takes


                                             Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                   Page 4
         precedence over the first amendment. Only one amendment to an amendment
         is permissible.

F.   The Precedence And Classification Of Motions. The rank of motions, which is called
     “precedence,” keeps the business of the meeting going with efficiency, and every
     motion is attended to in its proper turn. The order of precedence of motions is based
     on the degree of their urgency; and it is logical and easy to understand. The following
     is a list of the more important motions, arranged in the order of their precedence are
     listed in the table below.

     1   Four Types of Motions.

         a   Main Motions. This group is made up of motions which bring subjects (as
             contrasted with procedural questions) before the council for decision. These
             motions constitute the principal business of a meeting. They are the most
             important of all motions because they bring the main business before the
             meeting.

         b   Subsidiary Motions. This group is made up of seven motions which are
             alternative methods of changing or disposing of the main motion. Their
             name derives from the fact that they are subsidiary to the main motion and,
             therefore, can be proposed only when a main motion is before the council. If
             a main motion is pending and some members do not wish to vote on it
             directly at the time, they have several choices as to how the motion may be
             modified or disposed of. For example, one member may believe that it is an
             unsuitable motion for the council to consider and may move to postpone it
             indefinitely. Another may think that the motion should be changed so that it
             conforms more closely to the ideas of the council and may move to amend it.

         c   Incidental Motions. The motions of this group arise incidentally out of the
             business that is before the council. In general, they are concerned with the
             rights and privileges of members. They have only a few characteristics in
             common. The purpose of this group of motions is to handle procedural
             problems which arise out of the consideration of other questions. These
             problems, naturally, must be settled before consideration can be given to the
             question out of which they arise. Incidental motions are not included in the
             list of precedence because they may be proposed at any time and must be
             decided whenever they arise. Therefore, they present no problem of
             precedence.

         d   Privileged Motions. This small group is composed of motions which are so
             important that they are given privileges not accorded to other motion. They
             are, in effect, main motions that, because of their urgency, must be decided


                                                Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                      Page 5
        before the pending question. They relate to the members and to the council
        rather than to the main motion.

2   Rules of Precedence. The chief purpose of dividing motions into four groups is to
    determine their rank or precedence. This rank is fixed and definite and is based
    on logical reasoning. It is simple to understand and to apply. It is not necessary
    to memorize the precedence of the important motions. Practice in using them
    will soon fix their rank in your mind because their order is so logical that they
    could not be effectively arranged in any radically different way. There are two
    important rules of precedence: 1. When a motion is pending, any motion of a
    higher rank may be proposed, but no motion of lower rank is in order. The motion
    to adjourn (No. 1) has the highest rank, and a main motion (No. 11) has the lowest.
    If a main motion (No. 11) is pending, any motion of higher rank (No. 10 to 1) can
    be proposed. If No. 8 is pending, No. 7 to No. 1 can all be proposed, but No. 9 or
    No. 10 cannot. 2. Motions are considered and voted upon in inverse order to the
    order of their proposal, the last one proposed being considered and disposed of
    first. For example, if motions No. 11, 10, 7 and 2 were proposed in that order, they
    would be considered and voted upon in the following order: No. 2, 7, 10 and 11.




                                           Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                 Page 6
IV. PRINCIPAL RULES GOVERNING MOTIONS

Order of Precedence                    Can Interrupt   Requires a   Debatable?     Amendable?           Vote Required?
                                       Speaker?        Second?
Privileged Motions (Top Priority)
   1. Adjourn                          No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   2. Recess                           No              Yes          No             Yes                  Majority
   3. Question of Privilege            Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
Subsidiary Motions (Second Priority)
   4. Postpone Temporarily             No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   5. Vote Immediately                 No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   6. Limit Debate                     No              Yes          No             Yes                  Two-thirds
   7. Postpone Definitely              No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   8. Refer to Committee               No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   9. Amend or Substitute              No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   10. Postpone Indefinitely           No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Main Motions (Last Priority)
   11. General Main Motion             No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Incidental Motions (Resolve
immediately)                           Yes             Yes          Yes            No                   Tie or Majority
   12. Appeal                          Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   13. Point of Order                  Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   14. Parliamentary Inquiry           No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   15. Withdraw a Motion               No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   16. Suspend Rules                   Yes             No           No             No                   Two-thirds
   17. Object to Consideration         No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   18. Division of a Question          Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   19. Division of Assembly

                                                                                 Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                                                       Page 7
V.   DEFINITIONS

     ADJOURN: To terminate a meeting officially.

     ADOPT: To approve, to give effect to.

     AFFIRMATIVE VOTE: A “yes” or “aye” vote to a question before a council; an agreement to
     its acceptance.

     AGENDA: The official list of business to be considered at a meeting.

     AMEND: To change, by adding, deleting, or substituting works or provisions.

     ANNUL: To void or cancel an action previously taken.

     APPEAL: A decision of the presiding officer may be appealed from. An appeal requires that
     the decision be referred to the council for its determination by a vote.

     DEBATABLE: Capable of being discussed.

     DIVISION OF QUESTION: Separation of a main motion into two or more independent parts,
     each of which is capable of standing alone.

     GENERAL CONSENT: An informal method of disposing of routine and generally favored
     proposals by the chairman assuming the group’s approval, unless objection is raised. Also
     called “unanimous consent.”

     INCIDENTAL MOTIONS: Motions relating to questions that arise incidentally out of the
     business, or order or manner of considering the business of a council.

     LIMIT DEBATE: To place restrictions on the time to be devoted to debate on a question or
     the number of speakers or the time allotted each.

     MAIN MOTION: A motion presenting a subject to a council for discussion and decision.

     NEW BUSINESS: Any business other than unfinished or “old business” that may properly
     be brought before a council.

     OBJECT TO CONSIDERATION: To oppose discussion and decision of a main motion.

     ORDER OF BUSINESS: The formal program of sequence of different items or classes of
     business arranged in the order in which they are to be considered.

     ORDINANCE: Law made by the legislative body of a municipality.



                                                    Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                          Page 8
PENDING QUESTION: A question, or motion, before the council which has not yet been
voted upon.

POINT OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE: A challenge to a speaker to defend or apologize for
comments that a fellow member considers offensive.

POSTPONE TEMPORARILY: To defer consideration of a motion until the council chooses to
take it up again. The old form of the motion was “lay on the table.”

PRECEDENCE: The right of prior proposal and consideration of one motion over another,
or the order or priority of consideration.

PRIVILEGED MOTIONS: The class of motions having the highest priority.

QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE: Request or motion affecting the comfort or convenience of the
council or one of its members.

RECONSIDER: Motion to cancel the effect of a vote so that the question may be reviewed
and redecided.

REFER TO COMMITTEE: Motion to delegate work to a small group of members for study,
decision or action.

RESUME CONSIDERATION: To take up for consideration a motion that has been tabled.
The old form of the motion was “take from the table.”

SPECIAL COMMITTEE: A committee appointed to accomplish a particular task and to
submit a special report. It ceases to exist when its task is completed.

SPECIAL MEETING: A meeting called to consider certain specific business that must be set
forth in the call.

STANDING COMMITTEE: A committee to handle all business on a certain subject that may
be referred to it, and usually having a term of service corresponding to the term of office
of the officers of the organization.

TABLE TO A TIME CERTAIN: To defer consideration of a motion or report until a specific
time.

TABLE TO A TIME UNCERTAIN: To postpone a motion until a later, but as yet undetermined,
time.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS: Any business deferred by a motion to postpone to a definite time,
or any business that was incomplete when the previous meeting adjourned. Unfinished
business has a preferred status at the following meeting.

                                               Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                     Page 9
VIVA VOCE VOTE : A vote taken by calling for " ayes" and " noes" and judged by volume of
voice response. Sometimes called "voice vote."

VOTE IMMEDIATELY: Motion to close debate, shut off subsidiary motion and take a vote at
once.

WITHDRAW: Motion by a member to remove his motion from consideration by the council.




                                              Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                   Page 10
                                CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                RESOLUTION NO. 2022-08

A RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE WATER CONSERVATION PLAN (2021 UPDATE).

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale (“City”) recognizes that water is a valuable resource that
needs to be wisely managed;

WHEREAS by promoting a meaningful water conservation effort, the City will better
manage its water supply, reduce water waste, extend its water supply, and thereby delay
the need to purchase additional water supply and construct new infrastructure;

WHEREAS the City is a retail water provider to its citizens;

WHEREAS pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 73-10-32, the City of Bluffdale has adopted a Water
Conservation Plan and desires to amend such plan;

WHEREAS it is in the City’s and its customers’ best interest to adopt and implement an
updated water conservation plan;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:


      Section 1.      Adoption. The Water Conservation Plan (2021 Update) is hereby
adopted.

      Section 2.      Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon passage.

PASSED AND APPROVED: January 26, 2012.


                                                      CITY OF BLUFFDALE


                                                      _________________________________
                                                      Mayor

ATTEST:                                      [seal]
___________________________________
City Recorder




Voting by the City Council:     Yes    No

       Councilmember Aston      ____   ____
       Councilmember Crockett   ____   ____
       Councilmember Gaston     ____   ____
       Councilmember Hales      ____   ____
       Councilmember Kallas     ____   ____
     T
 AF
     2021 WATER CONSERVATION
                 PLAN UPDATE
              (HAL Project No.: 394.02.100)
 R
D


                           December 2021
     CITY OF BLUFFDALE
2021 WATER CONSERVATION PLAN UPDATE



      (HAL Project No.: 394.02.100)




                      T
 AF
      Robert B. Sowby, Ph.D., P.E., ENV SP
 R
                 Project Engineer
D

       859 W. South Jordan Pkwy. Ste. 200
            South Jordan, UT 84095
                 801-566-5599
           www.hansenallenluce.com


              December 2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS


TABLE OF CONTENTS ............................................................................................................. i

CHAPTER 1 – INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................ 1-1

CHAPTER 2 – EXISTING WATER SYSTEM ......................................................................... 2-1
 SYSTEM PROFILE ............................................................................................................. 2-1
 INVENTORY OF WATER RESOURCES............................................................................. 2-1
 SUPPLY .............................................................................................................................. 2-2
 WATER MEASUREMENT ................................................................................................... 2-3
 BILLING .............................................................................................................................. 2-6
   Current Water Rate Structure ........................................................................................... 2-6




                                                                   T
 WATER USE ....................................................................................................................... 2-6

CHAPTER 3 – CONSERVATION ISSUES AND GOALS ....................................................... 3-1
 IDENTIFIED PROBLEMS .................................................................................................... 3-1
 GOALS ................................................................................................................................ 3-1
                           AF
CHAPTER 4 – CONSERVATION MEASURES & IMPLEMENTATION .................................. 4-1
 EXISTING CONSERVATION MEASURES.......................................................................... 4-1
 PROPOSED CONSERVATION MEASURES ...................................................................... 4-3
 DROUGHT RESPONSE ACTIONS ..................................................................................... 4-4
REFERENCES .......................................................................................................................R-1

APPENDIX A
     BLUFFDALE CITY BOARD ADOPTION OF CONSERVATION PLAN

APPENDIX B
 R
     SUMMARY OF JVWCD WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

APPENDIX C
     CITY OF BLUFFDALE CODE ON WATER CONSERVATION
D


Bluffdale City                                                       i                  2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                                                 LIST OF TABLES

Table 2-1        2019 Water System Connections ..................................................................... 2-1
Table 2-2        Summary of Bluffdale City Water Sources ....................................................... 2-2
Table 2-3        Summary of JVWCD Connections ................................................................... 2-3
Table 2-4        Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use ........................... 2-4
Table 2-5        Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use.................................... 2-4
Table 2-6        2019 Water Rate Structure .............................................................................. 2-6
Table 2-7        Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary .............................................. 2-6
Table 2-8        2019 Per Capita Water Use by Type ................................................................ 2-8
Table 4-1        Existing Conservation Measures ...................................................................... 4-1
Table 4-2        Proposed Conservation Measures ................................................................... 4-3
Table 4-3        Water Conservation Action Plan ...................................................................... 4-4




                                                           T
                                                LIST OF FIGURES

Figure 2-1       Water System Service Area Map ............................................................. After 2-1
Figure 2-2       Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use ........................... 2-4
Figure 2-3       Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use.................................... 2-5
                       AF
Figure 2-4       Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary .............................................. 2-7
Figure 2-5       Historical Per-Capita Water Use ...................................................................... 2-8
Figure 2-6       Future Use Comparision .................................................................................. 2-9
 R
D


Bluffdale City                                               ii               2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 1 – INTRODUCTION


The City of Bluffdale recognizes the need for proactive planning to meet the water needs of its
citizens. The Utah State Legislature has passed legislation requiring public water suppliers to
prepare a Water Conservation Plan and then to update the plan periodically. This 2021 report is
an update of the City’s 2015 Water Conservation Plan. This report describes the drinking water
system, summarizes water consumption, assesses the water conservation alternatives available
to the City, sets goals to conserve water, and identifies existing and proposed water conservation
measures to be implemented by the City.

The new Regional M&I 2030 Water Conservation Goal for the Salt Lake region is to reduce
consumption by 11% from the year 2015 to 2030, resulting in a reduction goal of 210 to 187 gpcd
(HAL and BCA, 2019). Bluffdale City is already below the regional goal, and therefore, has the




                                               T
goal to also have an 11% reduction from 2015 to 2030, following the same trajectory as the
regional goal. The City was at 171 gpcd in 2015. So, for 2030 the City’s goal is to be at 152 gpcd.

Appendix A includes the resolution documenting the City’s adoption of the conservation plan
update.
                   AF
 R
D


Bluffdale City                                 1-1            2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 2 – EXISTING WATER SYSTEM


SYSTEM PROFILE

Located along the Jordan River corridor in southern Salt Lake County, Bluffdale has grown
steadily during its transition from rural land use to residential subdivisions. In 2019, the City
reported to the Division of Water Rights an estimated population of 16,350 people.

Bluffdale owns and operates a public water system serving 4,242 connections (Utah Division of
Water Rights 2019). These connections include domestic (4,066), commercial (118), and
institutional (58) customers with both indoor and outdoor water uses. A summary of the current
connections by type is shown in Table 2-1.




                                               T
                         Table 2-1: 2019 Water System Connections
                           Connection Type      Total Connections
                               Residential               4,066
                               Commercial                 118
                    AF          Industrial
                               Institutional
                                  Total
                                                           0
                                                           58
                                                         4,242


The drinking water system consists of three main pressure zones (Zone 1, Zone 2, and Zone 3
from low to high) and one intermediate pressure zone (Bluffdale Heights). Zone 1 and Zone 2 are
divided into east and west (Zone 1E, 1W, etc.) according to their position relative to the Jordan
River.
 R
All potable water is purchased from Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD), which
delivers water through nine metered connections. The City has water storage capacity in three
tanks, one of which it shares with JVWCD. The City’s drinking water pipe network contains some
90 mi of pipe, according to GIS data provided during the 2019 Drinking Water Master Plan. About
D

50% is 8 in. diameter and over 90% is PVC material. About 30% of the pipe was installed in the
last 15 years.

Bluffdale has no citywide irrigation system but owns and operates several irrigation facilities
serving different areas. Since not all secondary water is metered, secondary water is excluded
from this report.

INVENTORY OF WATER RESOURCES

The City’s drinking water system extends throughout the municipal boundaries covering an area
of approximately 11.14 mi2. Currently, the water system provides water to 4,066 residential, 118
commercial, 0 industrial, and 58 institutional (public) connections. Figure 2-1 shows the system
and service area boundaries.



Bluffdale City                                 2-1              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
The City does not own or operate any of its own drinking water sources. All of the City’s drinking
water supply is purchased from JVWCD. The City’s contract to secure water from JVWCD is set
forth in a formal Water Purchase Agreement. The agreement establishes a fixed annual volume
and unit price. The City pays for 100% of the volume whether it is used or not. As a contingency,
the agreement also allows the City to use up to 120% of the contract volume (i.e., 20% more) at
the same unit price. Beyond 120%, the unit price doubles. The City plans to rely completely on
JVWCD for future water supply.

Starting in 2021, JVWCD has new policies affecting wholesale contracts pertaining to contract
volumes, water conservation practices, and land use policies (see Appendix B). JVWCD is
encouraging its member agencies to adopt its Water Efficiency Standards to reduce water
demand from new developments and has created a new price structure for wholesale water based
on being “existing” or “new” water. When consumption goes beyond 120% of the contract volume,




                                                 T
it is considered “new” water and the more expensive rate will apply.

Ideally, actual water use would fall between 100% and 120% of the contract volume so as to
maximize the purchase without incurring the steeper prices for excessive use. The agreement is
updated every few years as the City’s needs for water change. In 2021, the contract volume is
                        AF
expected to be 3,300 ac-ft/yr.

SUPPLY

Previous, current, and projected water supply is shown in Table 2-2.

                        Table 2-2: Summary of Bluffdale City Water Sources
       Year            Actual Delivery (ac-ft)   Contract (ac-ft)      Contract + 20% (ac-ft)
      2015                     2,074                   1,710                    2,052
 R
      2016                     2,496                   1,710                    2,052
      2017                     2,374                   1,710                    2,052
      2018                     2,894                   2,300                    2,760
      2019                     2,908                   2,400                    2,880
      2020                     3,732                   2,500                    3,000
D

      2021*                    3,500                   3,200                    4,000
      2022*                    4,000                   3,424                    4,280
      2023*                    4,500                   3,760                    4,700
* Projected amounts.

The City has nine connections from JVWCD. A list of the connections is presented in Table 2-3.




Bluffdale City                                   2-2           2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                             Table 2-3: Summary of JVWCD Connections
                                        Flow
                       Pressure
   Meter Station                     Capacity 1    Status                      Notes
                         Zone
                                       (gpm)
 15000 S. 1000 W.          1E            450       Active
  (Coyote Gulch /
    Westgate)
 14600 S. 850 W.           1E            450       Active
 15050 S. 3200 W.       1W (via         Not yet    Active
  (Triangle Tank        Triangle       included
       Meter)            Tank)
 14400 S. 3200 W.          1W            400       Standby   Connection is closed to favor Triangle




                                                    T
                                                             Tank. Do not open without first isolating
                                                             the tank. If opened, pressure may
                                                             overpower the tank.
     14900 S.              1W            300       Standby   Connection is closed to favor Triangle
   Redwood Rd.                                               Tank. Do not open without first isolating



  14600 S. Pony
   Express Rd.
                        AF
                        Bluffdale
                        Heights
                                         450       Active
                                                             the tank. If opened, pressure may
                                                             overpower the tank.
                                                             Comes at slightly higher pressure (from
                                                             Metro). Supplies Bluffdale Heights Zone.
                                                             Valve in Regent Garden Lane must
                                                             remain closed.
 15100 S. 3200 W.          2W            300       Active    Limited capacity; pumped by JVWCD
    (Pumped)                                                 before delivery to Bluffdale. Check Iron
                                                             Horse and River View PRV settings to
 R
                                                             reduce unnecessary demand on this
                                                             connection.
     15000 S.             3 (via         780       Active
   Redwood Rd.             PS)
  (Camp Williams
   Pump Station)
D

  1260 W. Jordan          3 (via         450       Active
    Narrows Rd.            PS)
 (Jordan Narrows
   Pump Station)
       Total 2                          3,580
1. Maximum average flow rate over 24 hr.
2. Based on 2020 contract volume of 2,500 ac-ft.

WATER MEASUREMENT

Every water system loses some water or at least cannot account for the fate of all water produced.
Mechanisms for water loss include leaks, breaks, hydrant flushing, construction water, waste
pumping, and unmetered uses. According to the EPA (2017), water loss in public water systems
averages 16%; some Utah systems have identified losses of 30% or more. Lost water is also lost
Bluffdale City                                      2-3          2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
energy and lost revenue, so preventing and mitigating water loss should be a priority if losses are
excessive.

In Bluffdale, water loss is less than 10%, as shown in Table 2-5. This means that the City was
able to bill for almost all of the water it provided. Though there is room for improvement, a 10%
loss is better than the national average of 16% and better than many Utah systems. In Bluffdale,
the only unmetered uses of potable water are those associated with fire hydrants. The Public
Works Department also attributes the low water loss to standard design, construction, and
inspection procedures for new pipes and connections. Aged pipes will be replaced in coming
years to further reduce water loss.

Water meters are critical to track water use and incentivize conservation. In Bluffdale, meters are
read once a month. Percent of metered connections by type are summarized in Table 2-4.




                                                T
Table 2-5 compares the water produced by the City’s drinking water sources to the metered water
delivered to users from 2010 to present. Based on discussions with City staff, possible
explanations for the unaccounted water use include leaks in the distribution system and meter
inaccuracies. If high water usage is discovered, then the City investigates.
                    AF
          Table 2-4: Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use
                                             Percent Water Use
        Year
                      Residential      Commercial      Industrial    Institutional/Other
        2010              63.2%               9.5%              0.0%                27.4%
        2011              75.8%              12.2%              0.0%                12.0%
        2012              48.3%              10.0%              0.0%                41.7%
        2013              58.6%               8.4%              0.0%                33.0%
        2014              65.9%               9.4%              0.0%                24.7%
 R
        2015              73.9%               8.7%              0.0%                17.4%
        2016              76.6%               7.0%              0.0%                16.4%
        2017              85.6%               6.0%              0.0%                 8.4%
        2018              77.5%               4.6%              0.0%                18.0%
        2019              71.4%               5.7%              0.0%                22.9%
D

Figure 2-2 below shows the percentage difference of metered connection types in the form of a
graph using the information found in Table 2-4 above.




Bluffdale City                                 2-4            2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                          100.0%
                          90.0%
  % Metered Connections

                          80.0%
                          70.0%
                          60.0%
                          50.0%
                          40.0%
                          30.0%
                          20.0%
                          10.0%
                           0.0%
                                   2010   2011      2012       2013   2014      2015       2016       2017   2018       2019
                                                                             Year




                                                                      T
                                                 Residential    Commercial      Institutional/Other

                              Figure 2-2: Bluffdale City Percent Metered Connections by Type of Use




                           Year
                           2010
                                          AF
                                Table 2-5: Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use
                                           Total Metered
                                             Use (ac-ft)
                                                 1,862.68
                                                                  Total Source
                                                                Production (ac-ft)
                                                                                      Percent of Water
                                                                                      Unaccounted For
                                                                                1,622.44                            *
                           2011                  1,392.55                       1,512.60                      7.94%
                           2012                  2,521.70                       1,512.60                            *
                           2013                  2,078.50                       1,776.80                            *
                           2014                  4,872.96                       2,038.40                      4.50%
                           2015                  1,911.56                       2,073.52                      7.81%
 R
                           2016                  2,413.13                       2,601.90                      7.26%
                           2017                  2,281.98                       2,480.44                      8.00%
                           2018                  2,721.84                       2,893.67                      5.94%
                           2019                  2,781.99                       2,907.68                      4.32%
* Note: Removed due to inaccuracies in the reporting.
D

Figure 2-3 below shows the comparison of metered use vs. water produced in the form of a
graph using the information found in Table 2-5 above.




Bluffdale City                                                        2-5              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
              3,500.00

              3,000.00

              2,500.00
  Acre-Feet




              2,000.00

              1,500.00

              1,000.00

               500.00

                  0.00
                           2010   2011       2012    2013     2014     2015      2016    2017    2018     2019
                                                                   Year




                                                             T
                                         Total Metered Use     Total Source Production

                         Figure 2-3: Comparison of Water Produced to Metered Water Use

BILLING

Current Water Rate Structure
                               AF
The City’s drinking water rate structure is summarized in Table 2-6. The City adopted a tiered
water rate structure about eight years ago to encourage water conservation and comply with the
Division of Drinking Water’s requirements. This program lets homeowners know whether or not
they are using too much water by penalizing high water users with higher fees. The water rate
structure was adjusted last year. Secondary water from the City is being metered, but there
currently is no tiered rate for secondary water. Secondary is currently priced at $0.90 per 1,000
gallons. The City has said that the tiered rates have been successful and have encouraged less
 R
water use.

                                         Table 2-6: 2019 Water Rate Structure
                                         Water Tiers                                     Price
                 Monthly Base Water Fee (Residential)                           $12.00
D

                 Monthly Base Water Fee (Commercial)                            $30.00
                 Tier 1 (0–10,000 gallons)                                      $2.50 per 1,000 gallons
                 Tier 2 (10,001–50,000 gallons)                                 $3.00 per 1,000 gallons
                 Tier 3 (50,001–100,000 gallons)                                $3.85 per 1,000 gallons
                 Tier 4 (100,001 gallons and above)                             $4.55 per 1,000 gallons

WATER USE

Bluffdale has replaced all old water meters with new, continuous-read water meters. The City has
also established a fixed-network meter-reading system and bills its users monthly. All delivered
potable water is metered. The City requires water meters for all new active secondary water
connections. Fire hydrants are not metered.

Historical water supplied by the City’s drinking water sources is summarized in Table 2-7.

Bluffdale City                                               2-6              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
                         Table 2-7: Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary
                                                      Total Source Supplied (ac-ft)
                                 Year
                                                            JVWCD Purchases
                                 2000                              1,172.21
                                 2001                              1,227.13
                                 2002                              1,086.00
                                 2003                              1,149.00
                                 2004                              1,245.11
                                 2005                              1,231.00
                                 2006                              1,488.24
                                 2007                              1,692.96




                                                      T
                                 2008                              1,429.20
                                 2009                              7,090.08
                                 2010                              1,622.44
                            AF   2011                              1,512.60
                                 2012                              1,512.60
                                 2013                              1,776.80
                                 2014                              2,038.40
                                 2015                              2,073.52
                                 2016                              2,495.50
                                 2017                              2,374.03
                                 2018                              2,893.67
                                 2019                              2,907.68
 R
Figure 2-4 charts the City’s historical water supply from 2010 to 2019.

              3,500.00
              3,000.00
              2,500.00
D
  Acre-Feet




              2,000.00
              1,500.00
              1,000.00
               500.00
                  0.00
                         2010   2011    2012   2013    2014    2015       2016   2017    2018    2019
                                                            Year

                                                JVWCD Purchases

                         Figure 2-4: Bluffdale City Historical Water Supply Summary

Water use data from 2019 was evaluated to determine indoor versus outdoor use. Indoor use can
be estimated by determining the average use during winter months. Any use above this amount

Bluffdale City                                        2-7              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
during other times of the year is assumed to be outdoor watering. The only monthly data available
to estimate indoor use was monthly source data. There is no monthly data available to determine
indoor versus outdoor use by type. Therefore, typical water use percentages were used to
determine average indoor and outdoor use by type. Annual water use converted to average daily
use divided by population provides the per capita water use, or gallons per capita-day (gpcd). The
2019 per capita water use is shown in Table 2-8.

                                                             Table 2-8: 2019 Per Capita Water Use by Type
                                                                                         Indoor Use
                                                                                                                                   Outdoor Use                                      Total
                                                      Type                              (Winter Use)
                                                                                                                                     (gpcd)                                        (gpcd)
                                                                                           (gpcd)
                                                Residential                                       45*                                           69*                                   113
                                               Commercial                                             8*                                         1*                                       9
                                               Institutional                                      33*                                            4*                                       36




                                                                                                                       T
                                                 Industrial                                           0                                           0                                       0
                                                       Total                                          68                                         91                                   159
                                          * Typical residential water use for arid regions is about 40% indoor use and 60%
                                            outdoor. Typical commercial and institutional water use is about 90% indoor use and
                                            10% outdoor.
                                                     AF
Annual per capita use was calculated from 2000 to present using data reported to the Utah
Division of Water Rights. Figure 2-5 shows that the City has an overall decreasing trend from
around 260 gpcd in 2000 to less than 160 gpcd in 2019 which is now below the regional water
conservation goal established by the Division of Water Resources for the Salt Lake region.


                                                                     Gallons Per Capita Per Day Use
                   300
 R
                   250
  Use in Gallons




                   200

                   150

                   100
D

                    50

                     0
                         2000
                                2001
                                       2002
                                              2003
                                                     2004
                                                            2005
                                                                   2006
                                                                          2007
                                                                                 2008
                                                                                        2009
                                                                                               2010
                                                                                                      2011
                                                                                                             2012
                                                                                                                    2013
                                                                                                                           2014
                                                                                                                                  2015
                                                                                                                                         2016
                                                                                                                                                2017
                                                                                                                                                       2018
                                                                                                                                                              2019
                                                                                                                                                                     2020
                                                                                                                                                                            2021
                                                                                                                                                                                   2022
                                                                                                                                                                                          2023
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2025
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2026
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2027
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2028
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2029
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2030




                                                                                                                                  Year
                                                     Annual per capita use (gpcd)                                                                      Regional Goal

                                                               Figure 2-5: Historical Per-Capita Water Use

A comparison between reliable supply, current and projected water use, and efficient use are
presented on Figure 2-6. Future water use was projected by using the ERC and demand per ERC
given from water rights website and projected buildout ERC values from the 2019 Drinking Water
Master Plan. The reliable supply is based on the current annual contract with JVWCD with an
estimated contract growth of 250 ac-ft per year until buildout in 2050. JVWCD’s water contract is
expected to increase as demand increases to make sure there is enough supply. The regional
efficient use curve begins with its 2015 water use per capita. The efficient use shows the 11%
Bluffdale City                                                                                                        2-8                                2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
reduction goal in the 2015 regional water use by 2030, resulting in a reduction goal of 210 to 187
gpcd (HAL and BCA, 2019). As shown on Figure 2-6, the City’s projected reliable supply will be
negotiated and stay larger than consumption. Since 2015, the City has also been under the 11%
reduction goal but is not projected to stay below the goal in the future. The City’s policy for new
developments is to have a working pressurized irrigation system, which would bring down drinking
water use in the future. Incorporating the Jordan Valley Water Efficiency Standards with new
construction landscaping will also bring down water use. As shown in Figure 2-6, with the
projected population growth from now until 2050 Bluffdale City will need to cut back on water use
to be able to accommodate the projected growth, which is projected at about 58% from 2019 to
2050.

                   14,000.00


                   12,000.00




                                                                T
                   10,000.00
  Volume (ac-ft)




                    8,000.00


                    6,000.00


                    4,000.00


                    2,000.00
                                   AF
                        0.00
                            2000   2005   2010    2015     2020      2025   2030     2035     2040   2045   2050
                                                                     Year
 R
                                           Actual Water Use            Reliable Supply
                                           Regional Efficient Use      Water Use Projection

                                          Figure 2-6: Future Use Comparison

After reaching conservation targets, if future demands exceed the existing water supply the City
D

plans to meet these demands through additional wholesale purchase from Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District.




Bluffdale City                                                 2-9            2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 3 – CONSERVATION ISSUES AND GOALS


IDENTIFIED PROBLEMS

The City is concerned with the potential waste of water from inefficient indoor/outdoor water use
and from system wide losses. The following specific concerns have been identified by the City:

    •   Water loss from line breaks or leaks in the system
    •   Unmetered water use from hydrants
    •   Illegal unmetered connections (theft)
    •   Unmetered water use from aging meters
    •   Water loss from leaks on the customer’s side of the meter




                                              T
GOALS

Based on Utah’s Regional M&I Water Conservation Goals report (HAL and BCA, 2019), the
regional water conservation goal for the Salt Lake Region is an 11% reduction from the 2015
baseline by 2030. The 2015 baseline was established as 210 gpcd resulting in a goal of 187 gpcd
                   AF
by 2030. Bluffdale City is already below the regional goal, and therefore, we propose the City’s
goal to also be an 11% reduction from 2015 to 2030, following the same trajectory as the regional
goal. The City was at 171 gpcd in 2015. So, for 2030 the City’s goal is to be at 152 gpcd. The
City’s main goal of reaching 152 gpcd by the year 2030 can be attained by adhering to the goals
found in Tables 4-1 and 4-2.


,
 R
D


Bluffdale City                                3-1            2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
CHAPTER 4 – CONSERVATION MEASURES &
IMPLEMENTATION


The City believes that water conservation is an important strategy in its water management
portfolio, now and in the future. City staff are aware of the conservation goals and work together
to reach them. Water conservation efforts are combined and coordinated by both the Engineering
Department and the Public Works Department. The engineering department oversees design
standards, rates, and development, while the public works department oversees parks, metering,
and water distribution.

 Michael Fazio                                      Shane Paddock
 City Engineer                                      Public Works Director




                                                 T
 801-254-2200                                       801-254-2200


The City shall devote part of at least one regular meeting every five years of its governing body
to a discussion and formal adoption of the water conservation plan, and allow public comment on
                     AF
it. Upon adoption, meeting minutes will be added as an appendix and the plan will be made
available to the public and to the media.

EXISTING CONSERVATION MEASURES

Table 4-1 identifies water conservation measures that are currently being implemented by the
City. The measures will continue to be implemented according to the plan indicated in Table 4-1.
It is believed that existing conservation measures and public education programs are working
based on the continued decline of water use rates seen since 2000.
 R
                        Table 4-1: Existing Conservation Measures
           Conservation Measure                        Implementation Plan
 Require rock mulch instead of turf for small   The design is included in development standards and
 storm drain ponds.                             plan reviews.
 Require construction water users to use a      The City has about 35 portable meters ready to use.
D

 meter.                                         Contractors must register and check out a meter
                                                before construction.
 Eliminate errors found when collecting         The data are stored on the water department’s
 customer meter reads.                          computers and are reviewed for accuracy, comparing
                                                with JVWCD source flows and other SCADA
                                                information.
 Implement tiered rates for drinking water.     The City reevaluates tiered rates, based on
                                                consumption, every three years when JVWCD Water
                                                Purchase Agreement is renewed.
 Maintain a water conservation garden.          The City has a public water conservation garden with
                                                educational signage and water-efficient plants.
 Investigate abnormally high water use.         Whenever metered water data indicates unusually
                                                high water use, the City contacts the water user to
                                                check for leaks and discuss water use habits.



Bluffdale City                                   4-1             2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
           Conservation Measure                                Implementation Plan
 Practice good stormwater management and       The City incorporates low impact development (LID)
 LID.                                          that results in the infiltration and use of stormwater to
                                               protect water quality.
 Send out water conservation tips with water   Conservation mailers are sent out on a regular basis
 bills.                                        to City customers as well.
 Host a water conservation booth at Old West   The City sets up a water conservation booth at the
 Days.                                         annual Old West Days City Festival where residents
                                               can discuss water conservation with City staff and
                                               received handouts with water conservation tips.
 Leverage social media to promote efficient    Provide water conservation reminders,
 water use.                                    announcements, and helpful links through the City
                                               website and social media channels.
 Take advantage of JVWCD classes and other     The City encourages residents to participate
 offered resources.                            JVWCD’s landscaping classes and other sponsored




                                                T
                                               resources.
 Meter water use at City parks.                Some parks are currently metered, and the
                                               consumption is reviewed regularly by City staff.
 Reuse water from the Utah Data Center.        The water used to cool the data center is discharged
                                               to a 2 MG tank, blended with drinking water, reused
                     AF
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s Conservation
 Garden Park.
                                               as irrigation water for the main City park.
                                               JVWCD offers landscaping classes that focus on
                                               water conservation principles for residential and
                                               commercial water users.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s rebates for         JVWCD offers rebates to residential, commercial, and
 smart irrigation controllers and toilets.     institutional water users within its jurisdiction who
                                               replace old systems with smart irrigation controllers
                                               and/or toilets.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s park strip          JVWCD offers rebates to residential, commercial, and
 replacement rebates.                          institutional water users within its jurisdiction who “flip”
 R
                                               their park strip to be more water efficient.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s Localscapes         Residents who want to renovate or install a landscape
 Rewards.                                      may qualify for cash rewards and a free review of
                                               their landscape plan.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s landscaping         JVWCD provides landscaping consultation to educate
 assistance.                                   the public of how to conserve water while designing
D

                                               their landscapes.
 Take advantage of JVWCD’s Landscape           JVWCD offers grants to businesses, institutions,
 Leadership Grants.                            builders, developers, and HOAs with large
                                               landscaping projects that have potential for significant
                                               water savings.
 Develop drought response actions.             In conjunction with JVWCD, the City prepared
                                               response actions to execute during severe drought
                                               conditions, such as restricting outdoor water use.




Bluffdale City                                  4-2              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
PROPOSED CONSERVATION MEASURES

Table 4-2 identifies water conservation measures that are proposed to be implemented by the
City in the future. The City plans to continue the measures described in Table 4-1. Therefore, they
have been included below with additional proposed measures to be implemented in the future.


                       Table 4-2: Proposed Conservation Measures
             Conservation Measure                      Implementation Plan
 Establish standards for new landscape                  Adopt the JVWCD Water Efficiency Standards
 construction (or reconstruction).                      and enforce the corresponding water-efficient
                                                        landscaping requirements with new construction.
 Create a Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinance.        As a complement to the JVWCD Water Efficiency
                                                        Standards (which focus on new construction), the
                                                        Water-Efficient Landscaping Ordinance would




                                                      T
                                                        recommend water users to incorporate some sort
                                                        of xeriscaping in their landscaping to be more
                                                        water efficient.
 Improve accuracy of the City’s water use               Continue to compare customer end use with
 reporting.                                             incoming JVWCD source flows and intra-system
                      AF
 Regularly analyze water usage to search for
 regular extreme water users in Bluffdale.
                                                        flows (pump stations and PRVs) to close the
                                                        mass balance.
                                                        Prepare a map to view where the highest water
                                                        users are and where leaks occur. Analyze the
                                                        data regularly, such as on an annual basis (e.g.,
                                                        July for peak water use). Update the database
                                                        with information such as leaks per customer, etc.
 Meter all city parks to analyze consumption and        Budget for and install meters at remaining
 control water waste.                                   unmetered parks and integrate data streams with
                                                        other water use analysis.
 Reduce turf area at City parks.                        Use less grass. Replace areas of unused turf
 R
                                                        (e.g., between parking lots and sidewalks),
                                                        especially small areas that are difficult to irrigate
                                                        efficiently, with rock mulch or xeriscaping. Refer
                                                        to JVWCD Water Efficiency Standards.
 Optimize irrigation of City parks.                     Optimize water use at existing parks. Consider
                                                        new timing, moisture sensors, fertilizers, etc.
D

 Create an ongoing pipe replacement program.            Budget each year to replace older pipes in the
                                                        distribution system (perhaps 5% per year).
 Establish tiered rates for pressurized irrigation.     Just like the drinking water tier rate schedule, the
                                                        City intends to establish tiered rates for
                                                        pressurized irrigation.
 Establish tiered rates for drinking water based on     Enhance existing tiered drinking water rates by
 lot size and/or family size.                           considering effects of lot size and family size to
                                                        more appropriately allocate water.
 Create a Low-Flow Plumbing Fixtures Ordinance.         Adopt an ordinance to encourage, or even
                                                        require, fixtures with flow rates lower than the
                                                        current plumbing code or EPA WaterSense
                                                        standards.




Bluffdale City                                        4-3             2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
DROUGHT RESPONSE ACTIONS

Bluffdale is participating in JVWCD’s Drought Monitoring Committee, which meets every spring
to recommend a drought level that will guide water use decisions for the year. JVWCD’s drought
conditions are defined as:
     Normal – At least 95% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 80% allocation
        available from Provo River system; local groundwater diversions below safe yield.
     Moderate – At least 95% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 75%
        allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.
     Severe – At least 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; at least 75% allocation
        available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.
     Extreme – At least 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; less than 75%
        allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.
     Critical – Less than 90% allocation available from Jordanelle system; less than 45%
        allocation available from Provo River system; local groundwater exceeds safe yield.




                                                         T
Table 4-3 identifies an action plan that the City is exploring for use in the case of a drought or
other water shortage.
                       AF   Table 4-3: Water Conservation Action Plan
                                                            Parks and                           Water for
   Water Year                             Residential      Recreational                       Industrial and
                       Indoor Water
    Supply                              Outdoor Water        Facilities                        Agricultural
                                                             Watering                              Use
  Normal             Water                   Water conservation         Water                Water
                     conservation            encouraged*.               conservation         conservation
                     encouraged*.                                       encouraged*.         encouraged*.
  Moderate           Household water         Recommended:               Water grassed        Recommend
  drought            conservation            Grass watering             areas three times    irrigating fields
                     plan**.                 every other day. No        a week. Reduce       twice a week.
 R
                                             watering during the        water to trees. No
                                             day**.                     watering during
                                                                        the day.
  Severe             Household water         Recommended:               Water grassed        Recommend:
  drought            conservation            water grassed areas        areas once a         irrigating fields
                     plan**. Apply           watered twice a            week. Reduce         once a week. No
                     drought water           week. Apply                water to trees.      car washing.
D

                     rates level 1.          drought water
                                             rates level 1.
  Extreme            Apply drought           Recommended:               No watering of       Recommend:
  drought            water rate level        water grassed areas        grassed areas.       limiting irrigation.
                     2.                      once a week. Apply         Reduce tree          No car washing.
                                             drought water rate         watering to once a
                                             level 2.                   week.
  Critical           Apply drought           Recommend: cease           Cease irrigation.    Recommend:
  drought            water rate level        any outdoor                                     Cease irrigation.
                     3.                      irrigation. Apply                               No car washing.
                                             drought water rate
                                             level 3.
* Conservation in normal years allows for increased reservoir storage in future years.
** Recommended water use conservation practices (see below).




Bluffdale City                                           4-4               2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
Recommended conservation practices include the following:

       Check toilets for leaks.
       Take shorter showers.
       Install water-saving shower heads or flow restrictors.
       Turn off water while brushing your teeth.
       Turn off water while shaving.
       Check faucets and pipes for water leaks.
       Use your automatic dishwasher for full loads only.
       Use automatic washing machine for full loads only.
       Do not let the water run while washing vegetables.
       Keep a bottle of drinking water in the refrigerator.
       Use broom to clean driveways.




                                                T
                    AF
 R
D


Bluffdale City                                  4-5              2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
REFERENCES

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). 2017. Water Audits and Water Loss Control for Public
       Water     Systems.      5/13/21.    <https://www.epa.gov/sites/production/files/2015-
       04/documents/epa816f13002.pdf>

Hansen, Allen & Luce, Inc. (HAL) and Bowen Collins & Associates (BCA). 2019. Utah’s Regional
      M&I Water Conservation Goals. Utah Department of Natural Resources.

Hansen, Allen & Luce, Inc. (HAL). 2019. Bluffdale 2019 Drinking Water Master Plan.

Utah Division of Administrative Rules. 2019. Utah Administrative Code, Definitions – Water
      Conservation Plan Required 73-10-32. The Department of Administrative Services.




                                             T
Utah Division of Water Rights. 2019. Public Water Supplier Information. 4/19/21.
     <https://waterrights.utah.gov/asp_apps/viewEditPWS/pwsView.asp?SYSTEM_ID=1264h
     ttps://waterrights.utah.gov/asp_apps/viewEditPWS/pwsView.asp?SYSTEM_ID=1001>
                  AF
 R
D


Bluffdale City                               R-1           2021 Water Conservation Plan Update
               APPENDIX A
     CITY COUNCIL ADOPTION OF
           CONSERVATION PLAN




     T
 AF
 R
D
             APPENDIX B
          SUMMARY OF JVWCD
 WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS




     T
 AF
 R
D
                             WATER EFFICIENCY STANDARDS

1.   Purpose
     The purpose of these Water Efficiency Standards is to conserve the public's water
     resources by establishing water conservation standards for indoor plumbing fixtures and
     outdoor landscaping.

2.   Applicability
     The following standards shall be required for all developer/contractor installed residential,
     commercial, institutional, and industrial construction, as applicable. The Outdoor
     Landscaping Standards shall also be required for new landscaping construction installed
     by homeowners.

3.   Indoor Fixture Requirements




                                              T
     It is recommended and encouraged, but not mandated, that all new and future
     construction and future additions, remodels, or refurbishments install plumbing fixtures
     that have the WaterSense label, including: lavatory faucets, shower heads, sink faucets,
     water closets (tank and flushometer-valve toilets), and urinals, to the extent Utah law


4.
                    AF
     allows municipalities or local districts to require these fixtures.

     Outdoor Landscaping Standards
     All new and rehabilitated landscaping for public agency projects, private development
     projects, developer-installed landscaping in multi-family and single-family residential
     projects within the front and side yards, and homeowner provided landscape
     improvements within the front and side yards of single and two-family dwellings shall
     comply with the landscaping standards below:
 R
     Definitions

     A. Activity Zones: Portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function, such as
        storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

     B. Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where Lawn
D

        may be used as the playing surface (ex. sports fields and play areas).

     C. Central Open Shape: An unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of
        Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric in nature.

     D. Gathering Areas: Portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating, such
        as patios, gazebos, decks, and other seating areas.

     E. Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or
        compacted inorganic mulch.

                                               1
     F. Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is regularly mowed.

     G. Localscapes®: A landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
        sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-step approach (central open shape,
        gathering areas, activity zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).

     H. Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, compost, wood chips or other materials left
        loose and applied to the soil.

     I. Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located between the back-of-curb and
        sidewalk.

     J. Paths: Designed routes between landscape areas and features.

     K. Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants, such as trees, ornamental




                                              T
        grasses, shrubs, perennials, and other regionally appropriate plants.

     L. Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the property that incorporate all of the
        completed features of the landscape. The landscape area does not include footprints
                    AF
        of buildings or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated areas
        intentionally left undeveloped.

5.   Landscaping Requirements

     A. All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the
        highest water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas.
        Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end
        assembly, and any other appropriate components.
 R
     B. Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar site, slope and soil
        conditions, and plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and Planting Beds
        shall be irrigated on separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers
        shall be placed on separate irrigation valves.
D

     C. Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense labeled smart irrigation
        controller which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation
        events in response to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped
        with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off capabilities.

     D. At least 3-4 inches of Mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in Planting
        Beds to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.

     E. At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough plant material (perennials
        and shrubs) to create at least 50% living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane,
        not including tree canopies.
                                               2
F. Lawn shall not be installed in Park Strips, Paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1
   grade, and be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point. To the extent reasonably
   practicable, Lawn shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
   etc.).

G. In residential landscapes, the landscaping shall adhere to the following Localscapes
   requirements:

      i.   If size permits, the landscaped areas of the front yard and back yard shall
           include a designed Central Open Shape created by using Lawn, Hardscape,
           groundcover, gravel, or Mulch.
      ii. Gathering Areas shall be constructed of Hardscape and placed outside of the
           Central Open Shape. In a landscape without Lawn, Gathering Areas may




                                        T
           function as the Central Open Shape.
      iii. Activity Zones shall be located outside of the Central Open Shape and shall be
           surfaced with materials other than Lawn.
      iv. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include Lawn, such as
              AF
           Hardscape, Mulch, or other groundcover.
      v. Lawn areas shall not exceed the greater of 250 square feet, or 35% of the Total
           Landscaped Area.
      vi. Small residential lots, which have no back yards, which the Total Landscaped
           Area is less than 250 square feet, and which the front yard dimensions cannot
           accommodate the minimum 8 feet wide Lawn area requirement of the
           Landscaping Requirements in section F, are exempt from the 8 feet minimum
           width Lawn area requirement.

H. In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family development common area
 R
   landscapes, Lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the Total Landscaped Area, outside
   of Active Recreation Areas.

I. Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater management areas, etc.)
   may receive exceptions from the slope limitations and other elements of the
D

   Landscaping Requirements (see Paragraph F, above). Applications to receive
   exceptions are to be considered on a case-by-case basis.

J. These outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict with other landscaping
   requirements as defined by Utah law, including stormwater retention requirements
   and low-impact development guidelines. Notwithstanding these outdoor standards,
   whenever any requirement may be in conflict with Utah law, such conflicting
   requirements shall not apply.



                                        3
                                                                                                                               2/22/2021




          Water Efficiency
          Standards and
          Wholesale Policy




                                                       T
          Summary of the water efficiency standards and recent policy
          changes approved by JVWCD’s Board of Trustees




12
                     AF
 R
                                 1. Tax Increment Financing
     Strategies to                     As a condition of all tax increment financing requests, the projects must adopt
                                        the water efficiency standards.
     Encourage
                                 2. Annexation Petitions
     Adoption of Water                 As a condition of annexation, the new lands must conform to the water
D

     Efficiency                         efficiency standards.
     Standards                         Any water consumed in these lands will also be charged a higher Block 2
                                        wholesale rate.

                                 3. Water Fees and Charges
                                       New water purchase agreements which increase the minimum purchase
                                        amount, are subject to the Member Agency implementing the water efficiency
                                        standards (applicable to all new construction).
                                       Beginning January 1, 2021, water taken in excess of 120% of minimum
                                        purchase contract amount will be charged at a higher Block 2 wholesale rate.



                                                                                                                          13



13




                                                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                         2/22/2021




                                               System Component                 Block 1             Block 2
                                     Water Supply                                    $161.61              $760.00
                                     Water Treatment                                   $88.88                      n/a
                                     Transmission
                                                                                     $175.69              $175.69
     Block Rate                      (includes storage and pumping)
                                     Distribution                                      $12.60              $12.60
     Comparison                      Capital                                           $73.69              $73.69
     Source: HDR Engineering
     2020 Rate Study Update          Conservation                                       $9.87                 $9.87
                                     Other                                              $6.80                 $6.80




                                                          T
                                     Average non-pumped rate (per AF)                $529.14           $1,038.65
                                     Notes:
                                     a) Block 2 is based on the most recently developed supply (Central Water
                                        Project)




14
                           AF
 R
                               Indoor water efficiency standards
D

                                                                              It is recommended but not
                                                                              mandated that all indoor
                                                                              plumbing fixtures (e.g. toilets,
                                                                              urinals, showerheads, and
                                                                              faucets) be WaterSense
                                                                              labeled.




                                                                                                              15



15




                                                                                                                                2
                                                                                    2/22/2021




     Residential
     Landscape
     Standards
      Applicable to front and side
       yards.
      Lawn is a designed as an open
       space and does not exceed 35%
       of the total landscaped area.
      Prohibit lawn in park strips and
       other narrow areas that are less




                                                                  T
       than 8 feet wide.
      Drip irrigation is used in planting
       beds.
      Exceptions to these standards can
       be made in very small lot
       scenarios.                AF                                            16



16
 R
                                  Commercial Landscape Standards

       • Outside of active recreation areas, keep lawn to 20% of the
         total landscaped area.
D

       • Prohibit lawn in park strips, parking lot islands, or other
         narrow areas that are less than 8 feet wide.
       • Keep lawn areas free of obstructions such as trees, signposts,
         and boulders; and avoid use on steep slopes.
       • Drip irrigation is used in planting beds.
       • Recommended to have enough plant materials to create at
         least 50% living plant cover at maturity.
       • Submit new landscape projects to the municipality to ensure
         they meet water conservation requirements and guidelines.
       • Certain special purpose landscape areas may receive variances
         to the standards based on need (ex. stormwater management
         areas)




                                                                          17



17




                                                                                           3
              APPENDIX C
           CITY OF BLUFFDALE
 CODE ON WATER CONSERVATION




     T
 AF
 R
D
8.10.160 Scarcity Of Water

In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the mayor and the governing
body be necessary, the mayor shall by proclamation limit the use of water to such extent as may
be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any person, his family, servants or agents to violate any
proclamation made by the mayor in pursuance of this chapter. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff.
5-28-1980)

8.10.170 Excessive Use Of Sprinklers

   1. Effect On City Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person to use such number of
      outlets simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations of sprinkler or outlets as
      will in the opinion of the governing body materially affect the pressure or supply of water
      in the city water system or any part thereof, and the governing body may from time to




                                               T
      time, by resolution, specify combinations or numbers of outlets which may have such
      effect.
   2. Order To Discontinue: The governing body shall, after determining that such improper
      use exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the premises whereon such use
      occurs of such determination in writing, order such use discontinued and advise that such
                   AF
      continued usage constitutes a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff. 5-
      28-1980)

8.10.180 Waste Of Water

   1. Prohibited Acts: It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
          1. Waste water.
          2. Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes, or to allow
              tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow.
 R
          3. Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops, or through basins, water
              closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus.
          4. Use the water for purposes other than for those which he has applied, or to use
              water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the water supply.
   2. Refer To Governing Body: Users of water from the city water system shall not permit
      water to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve water. If, in the
D

      judgment of the water superintendent or any of the officers of the city, a user of city
      water engages in practices which result in the needless waste of water and continues to do
      so after reasonable notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the water
      superintendent or any officer may refer the matter to the governing body.
   3. Termination Of Service; Meeting: The governing body may thereupon consider
      terminating the right of the individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the
      matter of termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to terminate
      his water connection at least five (5) days prior to the meeting of the governing body at
      which termination of water service is to be considered. The notice shall inform him of the
      time and place of the meeting of and the charges which lead to the consideration of the
      termination.
   4. Appearance By Water User: A water user whose right to utilize city water is being
      reviewed shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present the
      reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
   5. Determination: After due hearing, the governing body may arrive at a determination. If
      the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's service connection, the
      governing body shall notify him of the decision and of the period during which the
      service will remain discontinued. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff. 5-28-1980)

8.10.210 Irrigation Water

   1. Running Upon Public Streets; Penalty: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
      subsection for any person who owns, leases or otherwise has control of irrigation waters
      within the city limits to allow said waters to flow or run upon the public streets of the
      city. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor




                                               T
      and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code. Each
      day during or on which a violation of this section occurs or continues shall constitute a
      separate offense and shall be punishable as such as hereinabove described. (Ord. 6-8-82-
      3, 6-8-1982; amd. 2013 Code)
   2. Reckless Flooding; Penalty: A person is guilty of reckless flooding if he damages the
                   AF
      property of another by reckless use of irrigation water. Reckless flooding is a class B
      misdemeanor if the damage to property exceeds five hundred dollars ($500.00) in value;
      and a class C misdemeanor if the damage to property exceeds fifty dollars ($50.00). Upon
      conviction of such violation, the violator shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
      1-4-1 of this code. Any other violation under this subsection shall constitute an infraction.
      (Ord. 7-12-88-2, 7-12-1988; amd. 2013 Code)

8.10.220 Nonliability For Damages
 R
   1. The city shall not be held liable for any damage to a water service user by reason of
      stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by fire, scarcity of
      water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which occurs as the result of
      maintenance and extension operations, or from any other avoidable cause. This chapter
      shall not be construed to extend the liability of the city beyond that provided in the
      governmental immunity act. (Ord. 5-27-80-1, 5-27-1980, eff. 5-28-1980)
D
                                                        T
                                                        AF
                  R
                 D
                                     AR Y
                            City of Bluffdale
                                                                                       DETAIL SERIES:




                                  IN
                                                                  STANDARD DETAIL      LANDSCAPE
                         Engineering Standards

                  L IM
              Approved
                                                         WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING   DETAIL NO.




              P RE
EST. 18 4 8

                                                                                             L-2
                          City Engineer          Date
