BLUFFDALE CITY                                                                                Mayor Natalie Hall
CITY COUNCIL &                                                                                Councilmember Wendy Aston
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD                                                                    Councilmember Traci Crockett
                                                                                              Councilmember Jeff Gaston
COMBINED MEETING AGENDA
                                                                                              Councilmember Mark Hales
City Council Chambers                                                                         Councilmember Dave Kallas
Wednesday, November 09, 2022, at 6:00 p.m.

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council and the Redevelopment Agency Board will hold a combined meeting
on Wednesday, November 09, 2022, at Bluffdale City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. The meeting will begin at
6:00 PM or as soon thereafter as possible. This meeting will also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. The
public may comment at the meeting or by emailing comments to councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com by 4:00 PM the
day of the meeting. Emailed comments will be submitted to the City Council but will not be read at the meeting. Notice is
further given that access to this meeting by the City Council may be by electronic means.
In the event the meeting is disrupted in any way that the City in its sole discretion deems inappropriate, the City reserves the
right to immediately remove the individual(s) from the meeting and, if needed, end virtual access to the meeting. Reasons
for removing an individual or ending virtual access to the meeting include but are not limited to the posting of offensive
pictures, remarks, or making offensive statements, disrespectful statements or actions, and any other action deemed
inappropriate.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION 6:00 P.M. (The work session is for identifying future items and other
council discussion. In accordance with Utah Code § 52-4-201(2)(a), while the meeting may be open to the public, there will
not be any opportunity for public input during the work session).
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call).
2.    Discussion/Presentation Items:
      2.1   Discussion related to the Environmental study for the 14600 South Railroad Crossing project. (Staff
            presenter Michael Fazio)
      2.2   Discussion related to detached accessory dwelling units. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
3.    Council Discussion:
4.    Adjournment.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*).
2.    Minute and Agenda Approval:
      2.1   September 14, 2022, City Council Meeting Minutes.
      2.2   September 28, 2022, City Council & RDA Combined Meeting Minutes.
      2.3   Approval of this meeting’s agenda.
3.    Mayor and Council Reports:
4.    Presentation Items:
      4.1   Recognition of the students from Mountain Point Elementary as the recipients of the Bluffdale
            Exemplary Student Award.
5.    Public Comment: (This is a time and place for any person who wishes to comment on items not scheduled on the
      agenda for public hearing. Any person or group wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public
      hearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his or her


City Council Meeting – November 09, 2022                                                                            Page 1 of 3
       name for the record or by emailing councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Comments should be limited to not
       more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Chair. Groups wishing to comment will be
       asked to appoint a spokesperson. Items brought forward to the attention of the City Council will be turned over to
       staff to provide a response outside of the City Council meeting.)
6.     Consent Agenda: (These items are considered by the City Council to be routine and will be enacted by a single
       motion. If discussion is desired on any particular consent item, that item may be removed from the consent agenda
       and considered separately. No public comment will be permitted.)
       6.1   None.
7.     Public Hearing Items: (Public comments must abide by the requirements listed above).
       7.1   Resolution No. 2022-46 –Local Consent for a Full-Service Restaurant Alcohol License for Toro Ramen
             and Sushi, located at 14653 South Porter Rockwell Boulevard, Tsogtsaikhan Magsar, applicant. (Staff
             presenter Kjersti Jarman)
       7.2   Ordinance No. 2022-18 – Text Amendments to Bluffdale City Land Use Code sections 11.20
             (Definitions), 11.160 (Supplementary Provisions), and 11.80 (Residential Zones) to update the
             standards related to allowed locations for small accessory buildings and structures. (Staff presenter
             Grant Crowell)
8.     Action or Discussion Items or Items Continued from Previous Meeting: (These items are considered by the
       City Council individually. No public comment will be permitted.)
       8.1   Resolution No. 2022-47 – Setting the 2023 Annual Meeting Schedule for the City Council, Planning
             Commission and other City Boards and Committees. (Mayor Natalie Hall)
       8.2   Resolution No. 2022-48 – Amending the Design Guidelines referenced in the Gateway Redwood Zone,
             presenter, Jacob Smith, Woodbury Corporation. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell
       8.3   Ordinance No. 2022-19 – Amending the City Standards and Specifications. (Staff presenter Michael
             Fazio)
       8.4   Resolution No. 2022-49 – Amending the Bluffdale Employee Policies and Procedures Manual related
             to the Drug and Alcohol Policy, Organizational Chart, Position Index, and Salary Scale. (Staff
             presenters Mark Reid, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer)
BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
      a. Call to Order: (Roll Call).
      b. Discussion/Presentation/Action Items:
             i.   Discussion of potential use of funds. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
      c. RDA Discussion:
      d. Adjournment.
CONTINUATION OF CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
9.     Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items:
10.    Closed Meetings - if any: (This meeting will be closed to the public for one of the stated purposes found in Utah Code
       § 52-4-205(1), which is usually for one of the following purposes: discussion of the character, professional competence,
       or physical or mental health of an individual; discuss collective bargaining; discuss pending or reasonably imminent
       litigation; discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, including water rights or water shares).
11.    Adjournment.




City Council Meeting – November 09, 2022                                                                           Page 2 of 3
                                               CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I hereby certify that the foregoing notice and agenda was submitted to the South Valley Journal, the Salt Lake Tribune, and
the Deseret News; posted at the Bluffdale City Hall and on the City’s website (www.bluffdale.com), delivered to each member
of the Bluffdale City Council; and posted on the Utah State Public Notice website (www.pmn.utah.gov).


Published and posted on November 03, 2022.



                                                             Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                             City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation
for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
*Contact the City Recorder if you desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.




City Council Meeting – November 09, 2022                                                                        Page 3 of 3
                                     Michael Fazio, P.E. City Engineer

                                              Memo
Date: 9 November 2022
From: Michael Fazio, P.E., City Engineer
To:       Mayor Hall
          City Council
CC:       Mark Reid, City Manager

RE:       14600 South Railroad Crossing Project Progress Update



I have been working with our team and with HDR on the 14600 South Railroad Crossing Project.
In the last few months we have made a lot of progress, but we have a lot of work ahead of us for
the completion of the project. This is just a brief update to provide a summary of what we have
done.

      •   Completed the preliminary concept design – selected crossing alternative type – box
          culvert or bridge under railroad tracks
      •   Prepared and submitted to Union Pacific the Type Selection Report for approval of
          method
      •   Met with Salt Lake City to finalize culvert design for the canal
      •   Completed the environmental study (State Environmental Study or SES)

We are waiting to hear back from Union Pacific, we are planning to meet with them as soon as
they have had the chance to review the study. In the meanwhile, we plan on continuing
designing the road. Here is a brief summary of future activities.

      •   Publish the environmental document for review from public
      •   Will have a public meeting with residents to show the selected alternative with all
          possible (6 December 2022)
      •   Formally adopt the environmental document on the January 11 Council Meeting (public
          hearing)
      •   Contact property owners from which the City needs to acquire properties
      •   Work with UP and UTA to finalize design approval
      •   Hire a CMGC contractor to start working on the final design of the project

Please do not hesitate to call me if you have any questions.



                                 2222W 14400W, Bluffdale, Utah 84065;
                                 Tel. 801-559-7781; mfazio@bluffale.com
14600 South Railroad
 Crossing Project
          UPDATE
      9 November 2022
Project Update
• Completed the preliminary concept design – selected crossing
  alternative type – box culvert or bridge under railroad tracks
• Prepared and submitted to Union Pacific the Type Selection
  Report for approval of method
• Met with Salt Lake City to finalize culvert design for the canal
• Completed the environmental study (State Environmental Study
  or SES)
What’s next
• Publish the environmental document for review from public
• Will have a public meeting with residents to show the selected
  alternative with all possible (6 December 2022)
• Formally adopt the environmental document on the January 11
  Council Meeting (public hearing)
• Contact property owners from which the City needs to acquire
  properties
• Work with UP and UTA to finalize design approval
• Hire a CMGC contractor to start working on the final design of
  the project
Questions?
MEMORANDUM

TO:            City Council
FROM:          Grant Crowell
DATE:          2 November 2022
SUBJECT:       Detached Accessory Dwellings Discussion

Staff conducted some preliminary research that found many common themes in communities which
allow detached ADU’s. These may help generate ideas and questions for the study session as the City
determines what approach to take in Bluffdale.

Detached ADU Common Themes / Issues to consider for discussion
      •      (which) Single Family Residential zones and lots, over certain min lot size
      •      ADU is for one additional “family” as defined
      •      Requiring a permit
      •      Pick one or the other (internal or detached ADU); one ADU per parcel
      •      Owner occupy the primary unit on the lot
      •      No separate utility metering for ADU
      •      No short term rentals of ADU
      •      Maintain required setbacks and height and lot coverage
      •      Detached ADU’s allowed in rear yards
      •      Total square footage limit, maximum size (min. size?)
      •      Tiny homes as detached ADUs
      •      Additional parking (on-site) required
      •      Building and fire code compliance required
      •      Appearance conditions, design requirements
      •      Additional kitchens ok, if not additional ADU
      •      Record notice of approval on property; runs with the land
      •      Separate addressing may be allowed
      •      Violations, revocation, and appeals process
      •      Is not considered a density increase
      •      No impact fees
      •      Home occupations allowed
      •      Entrance, balconies, and stairs locations to be considered
      •      Corner lot standards (setbacks)
       •     Registration
                                                                                              Mayor Natalie Hall
BLUFFDALE CITY                                                                                Councilmember Wendy Aston
CITY COUNCIL                                                                                  Councilmember Traci Crockett
MEETING AGENDA                                                                                Councilmember Jeff Gaston
City Council Chambers                                                                         Councilmember Mark Hales
                                                                                              Councilmember Dave Kallas
Wednesday, September 14, 2022, at 6:00 p.m.

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council will hold a meeting on Wednesday, September 14, 2022, at Bluffdale
City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. The meeting will begin at 6:00 PM or as soon thereafter as possible. This
meeting will also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. The public may comment at the meeting or by
emailing comments to councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com by 4:00 PM the day of the meeting. Emailed comments will
be submitted to the City Council but will not be read at the meeting. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by
the City Council may be by electronic means.
In the event the meeting is disrupted in any way that the City in its sole discretion deems inappropriate, the City reserves the
right to immediately remove the individual(s) from the meeting and, if needed, end virtual access to the meeting. Reasons
for removing an individual or ending virtual access to the meeting include but are not limited to the posting of offensive
pictures, remarks, or making offensive statements, disrespectful statements or actions, and any other action deemed
inappropriate.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION 6:00 P.M. (The work session is for identifying future items and other
council discussion. In accordance with Utah Code § 52-4-201(2)(a), while the meeting may be open to the public, there will
not be any opportunity for public input during the work session).
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call).
2.    Discussion/Presentation Items:
      2.1   Discussion relating to Engineering Standards and Google Fiber. (Staff presenter Michael Fazio)
      2.2   Discussion relating to small accessory building setbacks. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
3.    Council Discussion:
4.    Adjournment.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*).
2.    Minute and Agenda Approval:
      2.1   August 16, 2022, City Council, LBA & RDA Combined Meeting Minutes.
      2.2   Approval of this meeting’s agenda.
3.    Mayor and Council Reports:
4.    Public Comment: (This is a time and place for any person who wishes to comment on items not scheduled on the
      agenda for public hearing. Any person or group wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public
      hearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his or her
      name for the record or by emailing councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Comments should be limited to not
      more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Chair. Groups wishing to comment will be
      asked to appoint a spokesperson. Items brought forward to the attention of the City Council will be turned over to
      staff to provide a response outside of the City Council meeting.)
5.    Presentation Items:
      5.1   Presentation and signing of the Constitution Week 2022 Proclamation and presentation to the
            Daughters of the American Revolution. (Mayor Natalie Hall)

City Council Meeting – September 14, 2022                                                                           Page 1 of 2
6.    Consent Agenda: (These items are considered by the City Council to be routine and will be enacted by a single
      motion. If discussion is desired on any particular consent item, that item may be removed from the consent agenda
      and considered separately. No public comment will be permitted.)
      6.1   Resolution No. 2022-41 – Approving the Master Landscape Maintenance Agreement with the Utah
            Department of Transportation.
7.    Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from Previous Meeting: (These items are considered by the City
      Council individually. No public comment will be permitted.)
      7.1   Resolution No. 2022-42 – Adopting the Voter Participation areas for the City of Bluffdale. (Staff
            presenter Hyrum Bosserman)
      7.2   Resolution No. 2022-43 – Authorizing an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City of
            Bluffdale and Salt Lake County Clerk Elections Division for the Property Tax Referendum. (Staff
            presenter Wendy Deppe)
8.    Public Hearing Items: (Public comments must abide by the requirements listed above).
      8.1   Ordinance No. 2022-15 - Adopting an update to the Moderate-Income Housing element of the City of
            Bluffdale General Plan. (Staff presenter Ellen Oakman)
9.    Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items:
10.   Closed Meetings - if any: (This meeting will be closed to the public for one of the stated purposes found in Utah Code
      § 52-4-205(1), which is usually for one of the following purposes: discussion of the character, professional competence,
      or physical or mental health of an individual; discuss collective bargaining; discuss pending or reasonably imminent
      litigation; discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, including water rights or water shares).
11.   Adjournment.


                                                CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I hereby certify that the foregoing notice and agenda was submitted to the South Valley Journal, the Salt Lake Tribune, and
the Deseret News; posted at the Bluffdale City Hall and on the City’s website (www.bluffdale.com), delivered to each member
of the Bluffdale City Council; and posted on the Utah State Public Notice website (www.pmn.utah.gov).


Published and posted on September 9, 2022.



                                                             Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                             City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation
for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
*Contact the City Recorder if you desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.




City Council Meeting – September 14, 2022                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   Present:        Mayor Natalie Hall
 2                   Wendy Aston
 3                   Traci Crockett
 4                   Jeff Gaston (arrived at 6:15 p.m.)
 5                   Mark Hales
 6                   Dave Kallas
 7
 8   Staff:          Mark Reid, City Manager
 9                   Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director
10                   James Dunkelberger, City Attorney
11                   Courtney Peterson, AV Technician
12                   Grant Crowell, Community and Economic Development Director
13                   Addison Mitton, Assistant City Engineer
14                   Matt Evans, Fire Chief
15                   Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
16
17   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION
18
19   1.       Call to Order: (Roll Call).
20
21   Mayor Natalie Hall called the meeting order at 6:00 p.m.
22
23   All members of the City Council were present with the exception of Jeff Gaston who arrived a
24   short time later.
25
26   2.       Discussion/Presentation Items:
27
28            2.1    Discussion Relating to Engineering Standards and Google Fiber.             (Staff
29                   Presenter, Michael Fazio).
30
31   Assistant City Engineer, Addison Mitton, reported that at the last City Council Meeting where
32   Google Fiber was discussed, they discussed the need to update the City standards to accommodate
33   micro-trenching. An overview was given of the proposed standards, which will be an appendage
34   to ST-6. Four components were proposed. Mr. Mitton explained that they are restricting any
35   transverse cuts through an intersection. Outside of intersections, they want them to be spaced at
36   least 300 feet apart. That may fluctuate as circumstances allow and as the need arises. It will,
37   however, need to be done on a permission basis.
38



                                                    1
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                      BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                         MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, September 14, 2022

1    Areas were identified where micro-trenching should be located. Placing it against a curb has the
2    least impact on a pavement structure because it is already built into the pavement system. Junctions
 3   were described as points where wires are brought to individual homes for service. Those would
 4   be built per the current standard. A rendering of a cut section was shown to explain what a micro
 5   trench might look like. The fiber conduit would have a minimum depth of one foot. Google Fiber
 6   pushed back on that requirement and Staff continued to work with them. The City’s preference
 7   was for it to be below the pavement structure. Google Fiber indicated that their standard is eight
 8   inches. Larger transmission lines tend to be closer to one foot.
 9
10   Once a trench is cut, the fiber is placed in the bottom. The backfill will include grout all the way
11   up. It will be high-strength grout that will cover the full gap. One inch will be left at the top and
12   covered with a black tar-like material. It will seal the crack so that no moisture gets in. This
13   prevents freeze/thaw issues in the wintertime.
14
15   Council Member Hales asked who will be responsible to move the trench back to the curb in the
16   event the road was widened. Mr. Mitton stated that this would have to be addressed in the
17   agreement with Google. The current understanding was that Google will care for their lines once
18   they are installed. Maintenance and warranty issues will also need to be discussed further and can
19   be included in the agreement. City Manager, Mark Reid, stated that currently, as the road was
20   crack sealed, the function between the road and curb is crack sealed. In response to a question
21   raised, Mr. Mitton stated that other cities have followed Google’s preference for placing it by the
22   curb but there are other areas where it is offset and on the pavement. Some cities do not require
23   mastic where it meets the curb line and allowed them to grout to the top. Bluffdale was going the
24   extra mile and wanted additional protection on the pavement. The mastic was required. No
25   photographs were available to illustrate the final result.
26
27   Mr. Reid reported that the City crack seals its roads every three or four years and the line will be
28   visible down nearly all roads. The transverse cut will be gone when they roto mill or do a shallow
29   overlay. When the drawings are ready, they will be put on the City Council agenda for approval.




                                                       2
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   Timing issues were discussed. Administrative Services Director, Bruce Kartchner, stated that
 2   when all requirements have been met the City will be put in a queue by Google Fiber.
 3
 4   In response to a question raised about whether Google Fiber will be required to provide fiber
 5   throughout the City, Mr. Reid stated that with all Franchise Agreements, there is no such
 6   requirement. Fiber will not likely be provided throughout the entire City. Some very difficult
 7   areas will not be served. Council Member Crockett asked if discounted packages will be available
 8   to Bluffdale residents. Mr. Reid stated that no such offer has been extended. Google indicated,
 9   however, that they do not do commercial.
10
11   Mayor Hall asked that Staff get confirmation from Google Fiber regarding the neighborhoods
12   where service will be provided. Mr. Mitton stated that there will need to be more fine-tuned
13   planning before there is an understanding of the precise locations. Mr. Kartchner believed it would
14   depend on the expected return. Less dense areas will be more challenging and it may be difficult
15   to justify the costs for a few homes. Mr. Reid stated that UTOPIA approached the City and
16   indicated that there are areas they would like to serve. They prepared a Franchise Agreement that
17   was ultimately approved. He indicated that they had no intention of expanding to the majority of
18   the City and will only serve a portion of Bluffdale City. Utah Broadband is currently asking for a
19   Franchise Agreement as well. The City’s intent was not to provide fiber to every home and
20   business but to accommodate the various providers as they come in. Most providers, other than
21   Google, desire to provide service in specific areas. Mayor Hall asked that during the next
22   presentation on Google Fiber, the exact locations be shared with the Council.
23
24          2.2     Discussion Relating to Small Accessory Building Setbacks. (Staff Presenter,
25                  Grant Crowell).
26
27   City Planner and Economic Development Director, Grant Crowell, shared Exhibit A: Zoning
28   Ordinance Changes for Small Accessory Buildings with the Council that outlined proposed
29   amendments. Mr. Crowell explained that at the end of a recent City Council Meeting, there were
30   discussions regarding the location of small accessory buildings on parcels in the community. In




                                                     3
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   addition to those discussions, there had been correspondence with one of the Council Members.
 2   Mr. Crowell overviewed the proposed amendments, which included the following:
 3
 4      •   11.20.020 – General Definitions
 5              o This included a definition for Portable Buildings or Structures.           There were
 6                  regulations associated with those buildings, which were adopted in 2017. For
 7                  instance, height, size, and setbacks. The proposal was to alter the language so it
 8                  referred to a Small Accessory Building or Structure instead. There would also be a
 9                  reference to a structure that was 400 square feet or less. Requirements that stated
10                  the building needed to be mounted on skids for easy movement had been removed.
11      •   11.160.230 – Construction Within Easements
12              o The proposed amendments would remove references to Portable Buildings and
13                  refer to Small Accessory Buildings instead. It would also clarify that there needed
14                  to be approval by the City Engineer rather than verification.
15      •   11.160.260 – Portable Buildings
16              o The section would be retitled Small Accessory Buildings. The references to
17                  Portable Buildings would instead refer to Small Accessory Buildings. The Council
18                  would need to determine whether setbacks would be required. There was a proposal
19                  that the maximum wall height be increased to 12 feet and the maximum roofline
20                  height be 16 feet. The language clarified that the buildings could be used for storage
21                  only behind the dwelling.      If the Council wanted to allow Small Accessory
22                  Buildings in the sideyard, that language could be altered. The proposed language
23                  also stated that setbacks needed to be consistent with the underlying zone.
24
25   Council Member Crockett had questions about the small accessory buildings on side yards. She
26   wondered if that meant that the building could be two feet from the property line. Mr. Crowell
27   clarified that based on the current language, the buildings need to be in the rear. It is up to the
28   Council to determine whether it would be appropriate to allow small accessory buildings on side
29   yards as well and if a setback is necessary. It was noted that the eaves from a building cannot hang



                                                      4
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                      BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                         MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   over a property line. That was stated in the Building Code and will address the related setback
 2   issues. Mr. Reid was concerned that drippings from the eaves could be on the property line. Mr.
 3   Crowell noted that this would need to be addressed with a collection system.
 4
 5   Council Member Aston asked about the reason for the current 10-foot setbacks. Mr. Crowell
 6   explained that he did not author that setback requirement and could not speak to the reasoning
 7   behind it. However, the general idea was that there should be spaces between buildings. When
 8   there are less than five feet in place, the firewall separation needs to be addressed. Since the
 9   Building and Fire Codes will still need to be met, some sort of plan would need to be outlined.
10
11   Mr. Crowell explained that there is a desire to reconcile some items related to lot coverage. In the
12   R-1-10 Zone, where lot sizes are 10,000 square feet, the City allows 40% lot coverage. In the R-
13   1-43 Zone, which is typically one acre, there is a maximum of 30% lot coverage. In Parry Farms
14   and Spring View Farms, the base zoning is R-1-43 and the Clustered Residential Overlay is on top
15   of that. Some of those parcels are 10,000 square feet in size. He believed the Council would want
16   to reconcile that into 40% lot coverage to make sure it is consistent with the R-1-10 Zone.
17   Mr. Crowell explained that there are several possibilities for the Council to consider before the
18   item is formally brought to the Planning Commission for review.
19
20   Council Member Kallas thought the proposed language looked good and the definition made sense.
21   He had thought a lot about the setback issue. Primarily, setbacks are required to address fire
22   concerns, but those were addressed in the Building Code. If a small accessory building is to be
23   constructed, it will need to be approved by the Building Department. The Building Department
24   will share information about appropriate building materials that address fire hazards.         Fire
25   mitigation issues are already addressed in the Code. Many of the structures are actually placed
26   directly against the home with no setback. For instance, a carport or a lean-to-shed. Mr. Crowell
27   pointed out that there could be unintended consequences related to the appearance of a house if
28   there are no setbacks for small accessory buildings. Mayor Hall noted that this language was only
29   related to structures that are 400 square feet or less.
30


                                                        5
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   Council Member Crockett expressed concern with not having a setback requirement. The Building
 2   Code specifies that there needs to be fire-rated sheet rock. It was also possible to have the roof
 3   steep enough that the water is maintained on the property. She noted that it was easy to not do
 4   things that may create issues in the community. Even though certain uses require a permit, a lot
 5   of residents do not seek out the necessary permits.
 6
 7   Council Member Kallas asked about a possible two-foot setback. It was confirmed that it is already
 8   permitted in the code. Council Member Crockett wanted to make sure that the decision will not
 9   create unintended issues. It was important to consider safety requirements and water runoff.
10   Council Member Kallas believed it could come down to a case-by-case basis. The Building
11   Department would be involved.
12
13   Council Member Kallas was not supportive of increasing the setbacks. The current setback was
14   two feet. That could be lowered or increased, however, if it is increased, it would not be
15   worthwhile to move forward with the amendments. The requirements are currently two feet from
16   the rear and side property boundaries and 10 feet from the house. He was fine leaving the two-
17   foot setback and open to reducing the 10-foot setback from the house. He noted that maintaining
18   the 10-foot setback from the house will eliminate certain candidates from utilizing small accessory
19   buildings. Council Member Crockett wondered if the 10 feet was needed for fire safety. Council
20   Member Kallas believed the requirement was in place because it has always been there.
21
22   Mr. Crowell had spoken to the Building Official but had not had time to speak to the Fire Marshal
23   about the possible scenarios. He offered to obtain additional information and share that with the
24   Council. It was noted that Fire Chief, Matt Evans was present. Chief Evans explained that if there
25   is a house fire and a small accessory building is two feet away, it is more likely to catch fire. Ten
26   feet was a distance that made sense from a fire perspective. He believed the Fire Marshal should
27   be contacted so that the actual data can be explored. Mr. Crowell offered to reach out.
28
29   Council Member Aston was comfortable with the two-foot setback for the side and rear yards. She
30   was also comfortable with the 10-foot setback from the house. She liked the draft language so far.



                                                      6
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                       BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                          MEETING MINUTES
                                       Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   Council Member Kallas noted that 10 feet is the same distance required for a permanent structure.
 2   The intention was to allow residents to make better use of their properties but still maintain safety.
 3   He supported the current amendments being reviewed by the Planning Commission but asked that
 4   research be done about possible setback reductions. Council Member Aston wondered if the
 5   Council could ask the Commission to share a recommendation on the setback from the house.
 6   Mr. Crowell explained that the Planning Commission would be required to make a
 7   recommendation since the amendments will alter City Code. Additional information about the
 8   safety aspects would be shared.
 9
10   Mr. Crowell reported that the Building Code requires a Building Permit for buildings that are 200
11   square feet or greater. Something that is 180 square feet is still an accessory building that is
12   supposed to meet the applicable setbacks in the zone in which it is located. However, since a
13   Building Permit is not required in that instance, it was unlikely that the setbacks would be adhered
14   to. Council Member Kallas referenced the amendments related to Parry Farms and Spring View
15   Farms. He believed consistency was important. It made sense to match the lot coverage to the R-
16   1-10 Zone. The Council discussed the proposed wall and roof height for a small accessory
17   building. Council Member Kallas noted that the suggested change was from 10 to 12 feet and 15
18   to 16 feet.
19
20   Mr. Crowell explained that he would reach out to the Fire Marshal for additional information. The
21   matter would be moved to the Planning Commission for review and consideration. Once the
22   Planning Commission has made a recommendation, it would be brought back to the City Council.
23
24   3.      Council Discussion.
25
26   Mayor Hall reported that the Utah League of Cities and Towns (“ULCT”) would hold its annual
27   conference from October 5 to 7, 2022. The conference will be held in downtown Salt Lake City.
28   If the City registered that day, the regular rate would be paid. If the City registers tomorrow, a late
29   fee will apply. She asked that Council Members let her know by the end of the evening whether
30   they will be attending.



                                                       7
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                      BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                         MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1
 2   4.       Adjournment.
 3
 4   Council Member Hales moved to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Council Member
 5   Aston. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.
 6
 7   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING
 8
 9   1.       Call to Order: (Roll, Invocation, and Pledge of Allegiance).
10
11   Mayor Hall called the meeting order at 7:00 p.m.
12
13   All members of the City Council were present.
14
15   Steve Cloward offered the Invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
16
17   2.       Minutes and Agenda Approval.
18
19            2.1    August 16, 2022, City Council, LBA, and RDA Combined Meeting Minutes.
20
21            2.2    Approval of this Meeting’s Agenda.
22
23   Council Member Hales moved to approve the Minutes and Agenda. The motion was
24   seconded by Council Member Crockett. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
25   the Council.
26
27   3.       Mayor and Council Reports:
28
29   Mayor Hall reported on the following:
30
31        •   The Porter Rockwell Bridge opening celebration recently took place.             Mayor Hall
32            explained that all of the Council Members attended as well as elected officials from all over
33            the State. It was wonderful to have added connectivity in the City. Those who attended
34            the celebration but did not receive one of the commemorative coins could reach out.
35        •   Mayor Hall attended a meeting with the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) and
36            City Staff related to the 2700 West and Bangerter exchange. It would be happening in




                                                       8
                       DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                 BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                    MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1       2023 because the Legislature provided funding, which moved up the timeline. There were
 2       not a lot of details currently but the meeting was related to the exchange.
 3   •   Mayor Hall was invited to tour the Old Prison before it is torn down. After touring, she
 4       was convinced that it should have been torn down a long time ago.
 5   •   The Mayors in the southwest region have unique problems related to transit and
 6       transportation that other areas in the County do not. She is part of the Southwest Mayors
 7       Coalition, which includes West Jordan, South Jordan, Copperton, Herriman, Riverton, and
 8       Bluffdale. The intent was to meet quarterly to prepare for the next Legislative Session.
 9       There could be unity about what is needed in the southwest.
10   •   September is National Preparedness Month. Mayor Hall thanked the Council Members
11       who took the Certified Emergency Response Training (“CERT”) courses. She encouraged
12       all residents to participate in CERT as well. The City-wide communication drill was to
13       take place on Saturday morning. A text needed to be sent to the group leader. Anyone
14       who did not know who their group leader is could contact the Emergency Manager for
15       details.
16   •   Meet the Mayor took place at City Hall and some residents came to meet her. Mayor Hall
17       explained that the Council Members also had the Council Chat. She clarified that during
18       the public comment periods at City Council Meetings, issues were not discussed because
19       they were not included on the agenda. It was an opportunity for the public to voice
20       concerns. Those concerns would be noted and there would be appropriate follow-up.
21   •   Mayor Hall expressed her appreciation to Mr. Crowell who invited her to present at the
22       American Planning Association (“APA”) convention. The APA met in Lehi and the
23       Mayors of Lehi, Draper, and Bluffdale presented information about growth and
24       maintaining city character during one of the breakout sessions.
25   •   Residents from every part of the City participated in the National Day of Service. A
26       dumpster was filled. Mayor Hall thanked everyone who participated.
27   •   The Get to the River Festival was to take place this month. There was Walk with the Mayor
28       and a staff member from the Jordan River Commission was present to walk the trail with



                                                  9
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                       BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                          MEETING MINUTES
                                       Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1            participants. That staff member shared information about the history of the trail, what is
 2            along the trail, and the possible future of the trail. It was fascinating.
 3        •   Mayor Hall attended the Naturalization Ceremony for Salt Lake County residents. 39
 4            people became citizens of the United States in Salt Lake County that day. They were from
 5            22 different countries. It was very emotional and moving.
 6        •   There was an Interfaith Luncheon with Draper, Herriman, Riverton, and South Jordan.
 7            Those present discussed how to come together as an interfaith community.
 8
 9   Council Member Crockett mentioned that the CERT class started that week. She was excited about
10   the course. Several Council Members had taken it in the past but this was her first time. Bart
11   Barton was identified as the new Emergency Preparedness Manager. He was present and citizens
12   from the community were teaching the class. She encouraged anyone who had not participated
13   yet to register. Council Member Crockett was also excited to do the Volunteers In Police Safety
14   (“VIPS”) program. It took place over two months and there are trainings once per week.
15
16   Council Member Aston encouraged those present to sign up for the CERT program. She also noted
17   that September 19, 2022, was Bluffdale’s Get to the River Festival in conjunction with the Jordan
18   River Commission. For the entire month of September, different cities have activities to encourage
19   residents to come to the river. This started because of the theory, “you protect what you use.” The
20   Jordan River was recognized as an asset to the community. On September 19, 2022, she would be
21   down by the Parry Farms ballfields. There would be treats for adults, children, and dogs.
22
23   4.       Public Comment.
24
25   Mayor Hall opened the public comment period.
26
27   Phyllis Adams identified herself as a Bluffdale resident and shared comments about the $55,000
28   and $58,000 that the City Manager and Administrative Services Director receive for benefits. That
29   amount did not seem to be added to their total wages. She believed City Staff should have found
30   out sooner what happened with John Roberts and felt the Mayor should resign.




                                                        10
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1
 2   Debbie Wangsgard was grateful for the City Council. In the past, she had budget questions and
 3   had spoken to the City about them. Every person she reached out to responded immediately to
 4   texts and phone calls. The City had been extremely open about the City’s finances and why an
 5   increase was necessary. She spent at least two hours looking at the budget herself. There were
 6   pockets of money that could not be mixed. For instance, money from the Road Fund cannot be
 7   used by the Fire Department. She was embarrassed by the comments shared by Ms. Adams and
 8   was frustrated by the way she continues to belittle the City and those who work for Bluffdale. The
 9   Mayor and Council Members are elected officials and it is important to trust them to do what is in
10   the best interest of the City. She was tired of the malicious comments from some outspoken and
11   angry residents. Ms. Wangsgard noted that everyone is doing their best.
12
13   Connie Robbins gave her address as 14455 South 2585 West. She noted that everyone has an
14   opportunity to speak their minds during the public comment period. There are some in the
15   community that want to eliminate that. Ms. Robbins accused Mayor Hall of causing anguish to
16   the Gaston family for eight months. She felt that City Staff and other Council Members had not
17   stood behind Council Member Gaston. He is an elected official and deserves the same respect.
18
19   Dean Wangsgard gave his address as 14723 South Currant Creek Circle. He felt he needed to
20   apologize to City Staff and Council Members for the lack of respect shown to them. Some
21   residents had resorted to personal attacks. He has run a business and understands that it is difficult
22   to attract employees without providing benefits. Mr. Wangsgard praised the City for providing
23   benefits to City Staff. As for the tax referendum, he suggested that residents speak to the Fire
24   Chief about the current Fire Department deficiencies. The Fire Stations are not adequately staffed.
25   This is a serious issue that residents are not taking seriously. The tax increase will amount to $11
26   or less per month and will provide infrastructure the City needs.
27
28   Steve Cloward gave his address as 3409 West Shiloh Creek Circle. He has lived in Bluffdale for
29   over six years and chose to build a home in the City because of the quality of life it provides. He
30   felt that it was important for everyone at the meeting to consider facts rather than emotions.



                                                      11
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   Mr. Cloward recalled a comment made by a former Mayor in the newsletter. In that newsletter, it
 2   stated that Bluffdale was at a disadvantage because there is not an economic base. There is a lot
 3   of pressure on businesses and Bluffdale is a business. There are employees, benefits, and
 4   unexpected and expected costs. Mr. Cloward was glad to pay the extra in property taxes because
 5   he understands that is the only way the City can pay some of the bills until the economic base in
 6   the City grows enough to provide the needed tax revenue.
 7
 8   An unidentified speaker stated that a friend of hers lived in West Jordan and her husband expressed
 9   a desire to run for Mayor. Her friend had not been supportive because families had been destroyed
10   by the way people treat elected officials. She understood that it is a difficult job. The personal
11   attacks she heard from residents were surprising and upsetting. There is a group of residents who
12   continue to personally attack specific people in the City. She expressed appreciation for the Mayor
13   and noted that she attended the Porter Rockwell Bridge event. It was a wonderful event and it was
14   beneficial to see everyone out supporting community progress.
15
16   Terri Summers shared comments related to the tax referendum. After looking at a large percentage
17   of the homes in Bluffdale and the property taxes, it seemed that the average increase would be
18   more than $11 per month. She did not feel that the $11 average number was an accurate
19   representation.
20
21   There were no further public comments. The public comment period was closed.
22
23   5.     Presentation Items:
24
25          5.1        Presentation and Signing of the Constitution Week 2022 Proclamation and
26                     Presentation to the Daughters of the American Revolution. (Mayor Natalie
27                     Hall).
28
29   Mayor Hall reported that the Daughters of the American Revolution approached her about a
30   Constitution Week 2022 Proclamation. She explained that the nation celebrated Constitution
31   Week and she often makes an effort to celebrate. On September 22, 2022, at 8:00 a.m. at City
32   Hall, there would be a reading of the Constitution. There were to be 52 readers at that time. The



                                                     12
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   reading of the Constitution would be broadcast on the City’s website. Schools will be watching,
 2   citizens can tune in, and it will be recorded for students to use throughout the year. Mayor Hall
 3   noted that some readers of the Constitution included Council Member Crockett, Chief Evans,
 4   Police Officers, students, and the Sons of the American Revolution. The latter would dress like
 5   the founding fathers. It will take 45 minutes to read the Constitution. She encouraged residents to
 6   tune in. In the City Park, there is a stage and a screen would be set up for residents to watch the
 7   event. The founding fathers will come out to the stage, present information, and answer questions.
 8
 9   Mayor Hall asked that the Daughters of the American Revolution introduce themselves. Shannon
10   Groves stated that she is the Vice Regent of the Spirit of America Chapter. Michelle Snarr stated
11   that she is a Chaplain in the Spirit of America Chapter. Mary Heine serves as the Corresponding
12   Secretary for the Spirit of America Chapter. Missy Peterson was part of the Spirit of America
13   Chapter and a Bluffdale resident. Mayor Hall read the proclamation aloud and photographs were
14   taken. The proclamation was then signed and a copy was given to representatives from the
15   Daughters of the American Revolution.
16
17   6.     Consent Agenda.
18
19          6.1     Resolution No. 2022-41 – Approving the Master Landscape Maintenance
20                  Agreement with the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”).
21
22   Council Member Hales moved to approve the Consent Agenda. The motion was seconded
23   by Council Member Kallas. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.
24
25   7.     Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from the Previous Meeting.
26
27          7.1     Resolution 2022-42 – Adopting the Voter Participation Areas for the City of
28                  Bluffdale. (Staff Presenter, Hyrum Bosserman).
29
30   City Attorney, James Dunkelberger reported that a memo was included in the packet that
31   recommended the approval and adoption of the Bluffdale Active Voters by Quadrant Map. The
32   map was a designation that is required under State Statute and was provided under Utah Code 20A-
33   7-401.3. The map was shared with the Council. Mayor Hall asked how the map was configured



                                                     13
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                      BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                         MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   and drawn. Mr. Dunkelberger reported that Glen Bush from BIO-WEST, Inc. is the City’s GIS
 2   Consultant. The map was outsourced for the purpose of drawing the boundaries. The map was
 3   prepared using data derived from voters in the City. Mayor Hall asked about the requirements for
 4   each area. Mr. Dunkelberger stated that each of the four areas need to have roughly the same
 5   population. That was the only governing criterion. He clarified that the map is based on active
 6   voters as well as the population within the districts.
 7
 8   Council Member Hales wondered if the areas should be numbered.           Mayor Hall liked the
 9   suggestion and asked that the quadrants be numbered for additional clarity. Discussions were had
10   about appropriate motion language. For instance, whether names or numbers would be suitable.
11
12   Council Member Hales moved to approve Resolution 2022-42 – Adopting the Voter
13   Participation Areas for the City of Bluffdale, with the amendment that the areas be
14   numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4, as addressed on the map. The motion was seconded by Council
15   Member Aston. Vote on Motion: Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council Member Crockett-
16   Aye; Council Member Hales-Aye; Council Member Gaston-Aye; Council Member Aston-
17   Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
18
19          7.2     Resolution No. 2022-43 – Authorizing an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
20                  Between the City of Bluffdale and Salt Lake County Clerk Elections Division
21                  for the Property Tax Referendum. (Staff Presenter, Wendy Deppe).
22
23   City Recorder, Wendy Deppe overviewed the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between the City
24   of Bluffdale and the Salt Lake County Clerk Elections Division. The reason for the agreement was
25   due to the referendum issued by the citizens of Bluffdale against Resolution 2022-36. The packet
26   outlined the scope of work. Exhibits A and B included the total costs associated with Salt Lake
27   County Elections Division and putting the referendum on the ballot. The general election would
28   take place on November 8, 2022. The total cost estimate was $6,149. That could vary slightly,
29   however, to move forward with the referendum and add it to the ballot, she recommended approval.
30   It was clarified that the cost was only the Salt Lake County Elections Division fee and did not
31   include other associated fees, such as Staff time and lawyer fees.



                                                      14
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1
 2   Council Member Gaston moved to approve Resolution 2022-43 – Authorizing an Interlocal
 3   Cooperation Agreement Between the City of Bluffdale and Salt Lake County Clerk Elections
 4   Division for the Property Tax Referendum. The motion was seconded by Council Member
 5   Kallas. Vote on Motion: Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council Member Crockett-Aye;
 6   Council Member Hales-Aye; Council Member Gaston-Aye; Council Member Aston-Aye.
 7   The motion passed unanimously.
 8
 9   8.     Public Hearing Items.
10
11          8.1     Ordinance No. 2022-15 – Adopting an Update to the Moderate-Income
12                  Housing Element of the City of Bluffdale General Plan. (Staff Presenter, Ellen
13                  Oakman).
14
15   Mr. Crowell overviewed the Moderate-Income Housing Element in the City of Bluffdale General
16   Plan. He reported that in June 2022, the City Council approved the General Plan. A Housing
17   Chapter was included but it was noted at the time that there would likely be further updates due to
18   State requirements. The Utah State Legislature passed House Bill (“H.B.”) 462 recently and
19   updated some of the approaches to providing moderate-income housing in the State. It also gave
20   the City some assignments to work on. Previously, Senate Bill (“S.B.”) 34 included a requirement
21   for a Moderate-Income Housing Plan that utilized certain strategies. Cities could choose from a
22   menu of options, identify them in the plan, and report on those options on an annual basis.
23
24   By October 1, 2022, the City needs to adopt a new Moderate-Income Housing Element of the
25   General Plan with the updated menu items and their progress. One of the main changes was that
26   cities need to outline how the moderate-income housing strategies will be implemented. The
27   Planning Commission reviewed the Moderate-Income Housing Element and forwarded a positive
28   recommendation to the City Council. Mr. Crowell explained that the intention was to receive input
29   from the Council and then submit the document to the State.
30
31   Mr. Crowell overviewed some of the strategies that were implemented in 2019, the purpose of the
32   amendment, and the 2022 Moderate-Income Housing Plan strategies. In addition, other potential



                                                     15
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   menu items were shared. Mr. Crowell explained that if the document was adopted, it would be
 2   implemented into the General Plan. The three menu items needed to be implemented that night,
 3   but others could be approved as well if desired by the Council. Council Member Crockett noted
 4   that some cities in the southwest lack amenities, such as childcare and transit. This makes
 5   moderate-income housing more challenging in certain locations.
 6
 7   Mayor Hall opened the public hearing.
 8
 9   Lisa Gayler asked what moderate-income housing entails.          Mr. Crowell shared additional
10   information and clarified that it is based on the County median of 80% of the Area Median Income
11   (“AMI”).
12
13   There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
14
15   Council Member Kallas moved to approve Ordinance 2022-15 – Adopting an Update to the
16   Moderate-Income Housing Element of the City of Bluffdale General Plan. The motion was
17   seconded by Council Member Hales. Vote on Motion: Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council
18   Member Crockett-Aye; Council Member Hales-Aye; Council Member Gaston-Aye; Council
19   Member Aston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
20
21   9.       Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items.
22
23   Mark Reid reported on the following:
24
25        •   The ULCT will hold its Annual Conference from October 5 to October 7, 2022. The
26            conference will be held in downtown Salt Lake City.
27        •   Knight of Heroes will take place on September 16, 2022, from 6:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
28        •   A Garden Party was scheduled at the Community Garden, which is located on the corner
29            of Star-Spangled and Heritage Crest Drives. Emily Swanson was a volunteer and has
30            dedicated many hours to the garden. The Garden Party will take place from 5:00 p.m. to
31            7:00 p.m. Mr. Reid encouraged those interested to attend.




                                                     16
                          DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 14, 2022

1       •   The City received a $50,000 Culture and Community Grant. It was received for the two
2           weeks of celebration and will be included in the Rodeo and Old West Days Funds.
3       •   The Fire Department named two new Battalion Chiefs. Chief Evans reported that Chris
 4          Aston and Kyle Stewart were promoted. Both will benefit the department. Mr. Evans
 5          worked on grants and Mr. Stewart will focus on medical issues. Chief Evans shared
 6          information about the bonus program. It seemed to be working and positive feedback was
 7          received from employees. There was a requirement that employees work at least two shifts
 8          per month in Bluffdale. If a third shift is worked, there is a $2 per hour bonus. If a fourth
 9          shift is worked, there is a $4 per hour bonus. There would be a better understanding of the
10          success of the program by the end of the next pay period. He noted that there another
11          program would be offered as well. Anyone who refers a Firefighter to the department
12          would be given a $100 bonus.
13
14   Mr. Reid reported that a lot of City Staff and attorney time had been dedicated to the referendum.
15   He asked Mr. Kartchner to overview the process so far. Mr. Kartchner reported that the City
16   gathered all of the required data. Both sides prepared a 500-word argument to support their
17   position. He noted that both will be posted on the City’s website in a section dedicated to the
18   referendum. Additionally, the voter participation areas had been determined. That was critical for
19   the process because signatures need to be collected for the referendum. This included 11.5% of
20   overall active voters but there were also thresholds for three out of the four voter participation
21   areas. The City Recorder had done a lot of work coordinating the data and information, which
22   included a fiscal and legal document to outline the impacts. That would be included in the
23   signature gathering pamphlet as well.
24
25   Mr. Kartchner reported that there are specific things that need to be included in the signature
26   document. Everything was provided to the sponsors of the referendum. Now that the voter
27   participation areas have been established, the sponsors could obtain the appropriate number of
28   signatures. Mr. Kartchner pointed out that some specific timelines and deadlines need to be
29   followed. Thankfully, the City had been able to work with the sponsors of the referendum to reach



                                                     17
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   an agreement about the deadlines. Normally, a referendum would not be on the ballot until the
 2   signatures have been properly certified. However, State Law requires that it be on the next ballot,
 3   which was scheduled in November. The City did not know if the vote would be valid until the
 4   signatures are approved. The signature approval and ballot would happen roughly within the same
 5   timeframe.
 6
 7   Council Member Kallas noted that it is possible to remove a signature from a referendum. He
 8   asked how that would happen if the election takes place during the counting period. Mr. Kartchner
 9   explained that because of the timing the normal referendum laws conflict with themselves. That
10   would be a challenging issue and the City would work with the attorneys on that. Council Member
11   Kallas wanted to make sure residents have the full right to sign it, not sign it, or remove their
12   signature if desired. Mr. Reid noted that residents have a right to have their names removed if they
13   have signed but he would have to look further into the process.
14
15   Council Member Crockett asked about the cost to the City to add the referendum to the ballot.
16   Mr. Kartchner explained that the costs were still coming in but estimated it was $10,000 to
17   $25,000, including County costs. Mr. Reid thanked the attorneys for their work. Mrs. Deppe was
18   also recognized for her work and dedication. The referendum information would be on the City’s
19   website on September 15, 2022. Ms. Deppe noted that the website would include information
20   about how to remove a name from the signature pages.
21
22   Council Member Kallas noted that the State Legislature authorized cities to have an Ordinance
23   allowing for the use of golf carts on City streets. Several cities had done that and implemented
24   rules as well. For instance, the driver needs to be a legal driver and everyone on the golf cart must
25   be in their own seat. There were also set use hours. Council Member Kallas reported that he saw
26   a lot of golf carts in neighborhoods but there was no clarity about whether the carts were allowed
27   to drive on the road or need to be on the sidewalks. He thought it would be worthwhile to look
28   into that further. It was determined that the item would be added to a future Work Session agenda
29   for discussion and consideration.




                                                      18
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                       BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                          MEETING MINUTES
                                       Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1
 2   Council Member Aston had respect for the referendum process. She also had a lot of respect for
 3   the sponsors because it took a lot of organization and work. However, she wanted to provide facts
 4   about why she voted for the property tax increase. Council Member Aston explained that Bluffdale
 5   was currently unable to attract and retain employees. This was happening across all departments.
 6   She noted that all of the departments in the City were fighting to keep up with the increased
 7   demands while still providing excellent service.
 8
 9   Council Member Aston asked Chief Evans to gather information about the Fire Department. The
10   information was from January 1 through September 13, 2022. In those 256 days, Stations 91 or
11   92 were closed 51 times. The ambulance in Stations 91 and 92 or both was shut down 276 times.
12   The Fire Engine was shut down in one or the other station 129 times. Bluffdale had been unable
13   to fully staff five special events and the City missed out on 40 transports.
14
15   Council Member Aston reported that there is a Mutual Aid Agreement with surrounding cities.
16   That agreement states that when the City is unable to respond to a call, the surrounding cities will
17   respond for Bluffdale. Those cities were identified as Draper, Riverton, and Herriman. They did
18   respond, but it went from a four-minute response from the Bluffdale Fire Department to a 15-
19   minute response. Those times were increasing because the mutual aid was becoming exhausted.
20   Bluffdale is requiring other cities to assist but is not able to assist other cities in return.
21
22   Council Member Aston respected whatever the voters decide but explained that this problem will
23   not go away on its own. The wages of the Firefighters and City employees need to be addressed.
24   While it is difficult for her to make decisions for others, she felt it was important that emergency
25   response times be as low as possible for the safety and well-being of all.
26
27   10.     Closed Meeting, if any.
28
29   Council Member Hales moved to go into Closed Session to discuss real property. The motion
30   was seconded by Council Member Crockett. Vote on Motion: Council Member Kallas-Aye;




                                                         19
                         DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   Council Member Crockett-Aye; Council Member Hales-Aye; Council Member Gaston-Aye;
 2   Council Member Aston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
 3
 4   The City Council was in Closed Session from 8:36 p.m. to 9:01 p.m.
 5
 6   11.    Adjournment.
 7
 8   Council Member Aston moved to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Council Member
 9   Hales. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.
10
11   The City Council Meeting adjourned at 9:02 p.m.
12
13
14
15   __________________________________
16   Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
17   City Recorder
18
19   Approved: _________________________




                                                  20
                           DRAFT - FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                    CLOSED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 14, 2022

 1   Present:      Mayor Natalie Hall
 2                 Wendy Aston
 3                 Traci Crockett
 4                 Jeff Gaston
 5                 Mark Hales
 6                 Dave Kallas
 7
 8   Staff:        Mark Reid, City Manager
 9                 Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director
10                 Grant Crowell, Community and Economic Development Director
11                 James Dunkelberger, City Attorney
12                 Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
13
14   At 8:36 p.m. Mayor Natalie Hall called the meeting to order.
15
16   Motion: Council Member Hales moved to go into Closed Session to discuss real property.
17
18   Second: Council Member Crockett seconded the motion.
19
20   Vote on Motion: Council Member Gaston-Aye, Council Member Crockett-Aye, Council Member
21   Hales-Aye, Council Member Kallas-Aye, Council Member Aston-Aye. The motion passed
22   unanimously.
23
24   The City Council discussed real property issues.
25
26   The Closed Session adjourned at 9:01 p.m.
27
28
29
30   ________________________________
31   Wendy Deppe, CMC
32   City Recorders
33
34   Approved: _________________________




                                                        1
                                                                                           Mayor Natalie Hall
BLUFFDALE CITY                                                                             Councilmember Wendy Aston
CITY COUNCIL &                                                                             Councilmember Traci Crockett
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD                                                                 Councilmember Jeff Gaston
                                                                                           Councilmember Mark Hales
COMBINED MEETING AGENDA
                                                                                           Councilmember Dave Kallas
City Council Chambers
Wednesday, September 28, 2022, at 7:00 p.m.

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council and Redevelopment Agency Board will hold a combined meeting on
Wednesday, September 28, 2022, at Bluffdale City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. The meeting will begin at
7:00 PM or as soon thereafter as possible. This meeting will also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com.
The public may comment at the meeting or by emailing comments to councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com by 4:00 PM
the day of the meeting. Emailed comments will be submitted to the City Council but will not be read at the meeting.
Notice is further given that access to this meeting by the City Council may be by electronic means.
In the event the meeting is disrupted in any way that the City in its sole discretion deems inappropriate, the City reserves
the right to immediately remove the individual(s) from the meeting and, if needed, end virtual access to the meeting.
Reasons for removing an individual or ending virtual access to the meeting include but are not limited to the posting of
offensive pictures, remarks, or making offensive statements, disrespectful statements or actions, and any other action
deemed inappropriate.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*).
2.    Minute and Agenda Approval:
      2.1   Approval of this meeting’s agenda.
3.    Mayor and Council Reports:
4.    Public Comment: (This is a time and place for any person who wishes to comment on items not scheduled on the
      agenda for public hearing. Any person or group wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public
      hearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his or her
      name for the record or by emailing councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Comments should be limited to not
      more than three (3) minutes unless additional time is authorized by the Chair. Groups wishing to comment will be
      asked to appoint a spokesperson. Items brought forward to the attention of the City Council will be turned over to
      staff to provide a response outside of the City Council meeting.)
5.    Presentation Items:
      5.1   Recognition of the students from Summit Academy Elementary School as the recipients of the
            Bluffdale Exemplary Student Award.
6.    Consent Agenda: (These items are considered by the City Council to be routine and will be enacted by a single
      motion. If discussion is desired on any particular consent item, that item may be removed from the consent agenda
      and considered separately. No public comment will be permitted.)
      6.1   Resolution No. 2022-40 – Approving the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake County
            for 2022-2028 UPDES Media Campaign Cost Sharing.
7.    Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from Previous Meeting: (These items are considered by the
      City Council individually. No public comment will be permitted.)
      7.1   Ordinance No. 2022-17 – Amending Title 1 of the Bluffdale City Code related to Administration,
            including Duties of the Mayor. (Mayor Natalie C. Hall)
8.    Public Hearing Items: (Public comments must abide by the requirements listed above).


City Council Meeting – September 28, 2022                                                                       Page 1 of 2
       8.1   Ordinance No. 2022-16 – A Zoning Text Amendment Application for The Centrum at Bluffdale
             Special District (SD-X), BCC 11.110.130, which is located at the SW Corner of 14600 South and Porter
             Rockwell Boulevard, to modify the number of apartment units from 236 to 252 and to clarify the use
             of architectural concrete within the project, LH Perry Investments, LLC. (Staff presenter Grant
             Crowell)
       8.2   Resolution No. 2022-42 – A proposed Development Agreement for The Centrum at Bluffdale Special
             District, located at the SW Corner of 14600 South and Porter Rockwell Boulevard, LH Perry
             Investments, LLC. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
      a. Call to Order: (Roll Call).
      b. Discussion/Presentation/Action Items:
             i.   Update and discussion regarding 14700 South between Noell Nelson Drive and Covent Garden
                  Development. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
      c. RDA Discussion:
      d. Adjournment.
CONTINUATION OF CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
9.     Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items:
10.    Closed Meetings - if any: (This meeting will be closed to the public for one of the stated purposes found in Utah
       Code § 52-4-205(1), which is usually for one of the following purposes: discussion of the character, professional
       competence, or physical or mental health of an individual; discuss collective bargaining; discuss pending or
       reasonably imminent litigation; discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, including water rights
       or water shares).
11.    Adjournment.


                                                CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I hereby certify that the foregoing notice and agenda was submitted to the South Valley Journal, the Salt Lake Tribune, and
the Deseret News; posted at the Bluffdale City Hall and on the City’s website (www.bluffdale.com), delivered to each
member of the Bluffdale City Council; and posted on the Utah State Public Notice website (www.pmn.utah.gov).


Published and posted on September 23, 2022.



                                                              Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                              City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation
for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
*Contact the City Recorder if you desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.




City Council Meeting – September 28, 2022                                                                         Page 2 of 2
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   Present:        Mayor Natalie Hall
 2                   Wendy Aston
 3                   Traci Crockett
 4                   Jeff Gaston
 5                   Mark Hales
 6                   Dave Kallas
 7
 8   Staff:          Mark Reid, City Manager
 9                   Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director
10                   James Dunkelberger, City Attorney
11                   Craig Hall, City Attorney
12                   Courtney Peterson, AV Technician
13                   Grant Crowell, Community and Economic Development Director
14                   Michael Fazio, City Engineer
15                   Shane Paddock, Public Works Director
16                   Matt Evans, Fire Chief
17                   Amanda Luker, Communications Specialist
18                   Jennifer Robison, Senior City Planner
19                   Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
20
21   Others:         Shivam Shah
22                   Matt Swain
23
24   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING
25
26   1.       Call to Order: (Roll, Invocation, and Pledge of Allegiance).
27
28   Mayor Hall called the meeting order at 7:00 p.m.
29
30   All members of the City Council were present.
31
32   Lisa Gayler offered the Invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
33
34   2.       Minutes and Agenda Approval.
35
36            2.1    Approval of this Meeting’s Agenda.
37
38   The Council discussed changing the order of the agenda items so that the students being recognized
39   for the Bluffdale Exemplary Student Award would not need to sit through the public comment period.
40



                                                        1
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

1    Council Member Hales moved to amend the Meeting Agenda to hear Item 5 before Item 4. The
2    motion was seconded by Council Member Gaston. Vote on motion: Council Member Aston-
3    Aye; Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council Member Crockett-Aye; Council Member Hales-
4    Aye; Council Member Gaston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
 5
 6   3.       Mayor and Council Reports:
 7
 8   Mayor Hall reported on the following:
 9
10        •   She toured the NSA Data Center with the City Manager as well as the Mayor of Lehi. The
11            NSA Data Center previously approached Bluffdale City about water infrastructure, which
12            resulted in a great service to the City. There is now water infrastructure that could not have
13            been afforded otherwise. When that infrastructure was built out, there was no tour given, but
14            Mayor Hall had now been able to tour the NSA Data Center. She reported that the purpose of
15            the NSA Data Center is to write and break code. The electrical system was shown as well as
16            the water and cooling systems.
17        •   The Bluffdale Garden Party was held for the first time. Mayor Hall believed this would
18            become an annual event. At the event, there was a dedication for a STEM library and a few
19            Council Members were present. Council Member Hales commented that it was a fun event.
20            He was impressed with the Library. Council Member Crockett encouraged residents to visit
21            the community gardens.      She enjoyed seeing the community come together to create
22            something special. Council Member Aston felt it was an incredible place.
23        •   Senior City Planner, Jennifer Robison made a grant presentation for trail connection funding.
24            Bluffdale was looking at connecting the Jordan River Parkway, which is a regional trail, to
25            the regional park in Wardle Fields. Funding was needed to do the engineering for the trail.
26            Mrs. Robison and Mayor Hall went to Salt Lake County for that presentation.
27        •   Mayor Hall shared information about the Knight of Heroes. She explained that the Mountain
28            West Chamber of Commerce was the Business Chamber and each year there is the Knight of
29            Heroes event where, businesses, firefighters, and police officers are recognized. She reported
30            that a Fire Team was recognized for their response to a notable accident. A Police Officer


                                                        2
                         DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                               BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                          AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                             COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, September 28, 2022

1        was also recognized for going above and beyond. The Businesswoman of the Year was
2        identified as the owner of The Hive Dance Company. Council Member Hales was glad to
3        attend and celebrate the accomplishments of others. Council Member Crockett thanked the
4        Mountain West Chamber of Commerce for going out of its way to thank heroes in the
5        community. It was a nice way to say thank you. Council Member Aston reported that she sat
6        next to Landen Braden who is an incredible Police Officer.
 7   •   The previous Saturday there was a City-wide communication drill. It is an annual event that
 8       is normally held in April. This year, it was held during National Preparedness Month. Mayor
 9       Hall expressed appreciation for the Emergency Manager and the ham radio group.
10   •   Mayor Hall attended the Jordan School District Fall Festival, which is held each year. There
11       was food, bands, and booths for every service that they offer.
12   •   Bluffdale is part of the Wasatch Front Regional Council (“WFRC”) for transportation
13       planning, but Mayor Hall attended MAG, which is the equivalent for Utah County. There had
14       been a transit planning open house. She attended because MAG was discussing issues that
15       will impact Bluffdale, Saratoga Springs, and Eagle Mountain. There was a good discussion
16       and she felt it was important to participate in MAG when possible.
17   •   Council Member Aston shared information about the Get to the River event. It was held in
18       conjunction with the Jordan River Commission. The intention was to bring awareness to the
19       Jordan River Trail. Several people stopped by. In the next few days, there would be three
20       geocaching containers, which would be published on geocache.com as well as the City’s
21       website. The goal was to bring awareness to the trail.
22   •   Mayor Hall reported that her favorite event from the past week was the Constitution Reading
23       that took place at City Hall. 12 schools participated as well as the Daughters of the American
24       Revolution and the Sons of the American Revolution. There were also Firefighters and Police
25       Officers and the House Representative. The Constitution was read in 40 minutes and was
26       broadcast on the Bluffdale YouTube channel. Council Member Crockett enjoyed taking part
27       in the reading and noted that her granddaughter also enjoyed the event.




                                                   3
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1        •   There was a meeting with the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) to discuss 2700
2             West and Bangerter Highway. The project was expected to be underway in late summer 2023
3             and take a couple of years to complete. Mayor Hall explained that meetings related to the
 4            project would take place as often as needed to move the work forward.
 5        •   The Healthy Bluffdale Coalition began the previous month. They were partnering with Get
 6            to the River Festival to inspire residents to be active outdoors. Geocaching was part of that
 7            plan.
 8        •   Mayor Hall attended Governor’s Day at Camp Williams. It was an emotional day for her
 9            because her son recently completed a four-year contract with the military. There are over
10            7,500 people active in the National Guard and Air National Guard. She described the
11            Governor’s Day Ceremony and stated that it was an amazing experience.
12        •   Mayor Hall recently attended the Old West Days Thank You Dinner. It took a lot to put on
13            Old West Days and the dinner was an opportunity to recognize all of the hard work.
14        •   Herriman City held an annual Community Partner’s Luncheon. It was an interesting luncheon
15            that included various community partners. It was wonderful to attend.
16
17   4.       Public Comment.
18
19   Mayor Hall opened the public comment period.
20
21   Lawrence Harman informed those present that he is homeless and was present to advocate for the
22   homeless. He distributed a packet called the Deseret Defiant Initiative. Mr. Harman created the
23   packet in 2018 and distributed it to the mayors of all of the incorporated cities in the County. It had
24   since been updated. He felt it was something that should be read and understood. It is important to
25   promote housing for the homeless and to continue supportive services. There was no one solution for
26   homelessness. Mr. Harman reported that there need to be several different solutions as well as a
27   community-wide effort. The State has the money, the County has the influence, and the individual
28   cities have done the groundwork. He encouraged the Council to review the packet. Mr. Harman was
29   passionate about this issue and was working directly with the Salt Lake County Coalition. He
30   provided his contact information to the City Recorder.


                                                        4
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1
 2   Tracie Kay identified herself as a Riverton resident and the owner of Full House Dog Training. She
 3   has operated her dog training business out of her home in Riverton for approximately 5 ½ years.
 4   There has been double-digit growth year over year. She had also reached maximum capacity in her
 5   home. Ms. Kay was looking to expand to a brick-and-mortar facility in the southwest area of the
 6   valley and wanted to consider Bluffdale as an option. Ms. Kay wondered if the Council would
 7   consider making modifications to the zoning to allow for larger volume indoor dog kenneling. The
 8   intention was to move beyond dog training and be able to offer boarding, daycare, and grooming
 9   services.
10
11   Bluffdale seemed like a good location for this use because of new growth in the City and the access
12   to major roadways. There is also a family-friendly environment here. She shared a flyer with the
13   Council and explained that she has done a lot of market analysis in the area. Between Bluffdale,
14   Riverton, Herriman, and South Jordan, 47% of households have at least one dog. 62% of the area
15   residents make over $100,000 per year, which means that residents have the means to travel and have
16   discretionary income. More than 13,000 people are already using professional dog services and many
17   cities allow dog boarding and kenneling. She hoped there could be further discussion about allowing
18   the use in Bluffdale and asked to present at an upcoming Work Session. Mayor Hall acknowledged
19   her request and looked forward to the conversation.
20
21   Ulises Flynn gave his address as 15192 South Skyfall Drive and requested that a certain part of his
22   neighborhood be red-striped. The Mountain Point Elementary school bus pickup area is in his
23   neighborhood and normally residents park in that location. Children are unable to see the bus and it
24   creates a chaotic situation. Mr. Flynn shared a map and images of the area. He asked that the area
25   where children are picked up be red striped so that it is safe for the bus to move as needed but also
26   increases safety for the children. Mayor Hall asked that a meeting be scheduled with the Engineering
27   Department.
28
29   J. Lee Bertoch gave his address as 2558 West Perschon Circle. He has lived in Bluffdale for 22 years
30   and has seen organized events grow during that time. For instance, there used to be Town Days and


                                                      5
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   now there is Old West Days. That shift had a lot to do with Connie Pavlakis and the volunteers. He
 2   felt Ms. Pavlakis should be recognized for her extraordinary efforts.
 3
 4   Connie Robbins gave her address as 14455 South 2585 West and shared comments related to Item
 5   7.1, which pertains to the duties of the Mayor. Mayor Hall stated verbally and in written form that
 6   her desire was the serve the City and do what she was elected to do. Mrs. Robbins felt that Mayor
 7   Hall was elected to be the Mayor and not the Events Coordinator. Prior mayors had various interests
 8   in the City but their duties had not been changed by Ordinance. The only reason to change the
 9   Ordinance was to micromanage the current Events Coordinator. The City Council already can suggest
10   events. Ms. Pavlakis had never told the administration that she would not plan a suggested event.
11   Mrs. Robbins expressed concerns about this amendment. She asked the Council not to approve Item
12   7.1 on the City Council agenda.
13
14   Phyliss Adams gave her address as 2090 West 14200 South and had been gathering signatures for the
15   referendum. She informed the Council that there are a lot of angry citizens. Ms. Adams accused
16   Council Member Kallas of spending time at the last meeting explaining how residents could remove
17   their names from the referendum signature sheet. She did not understand that since he voted against
18   the increase. Ms. Adams explained that the community was divided and angry.
19
20   Tony Elegante gave his address as 15177 South 2200 West and has been a member of the Bluffdale
21   community for over 12 years. He married into a family who has been here since 1968. Mr. Elegante
22   had heard about the item that could change the event's responsibility. He did not see why it would be
23   a problem to have an elected official working in conjunction with the current Events Coordinator.
24   Mr. Elegante reported that he volunteered for the rodeo for over 12 years. He wanted to see the
25   elected officials be more involved in the planning of those kinds of events.
26
27   There were no further public comments. The public comment period was closed.
28




                                                       6
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   5.     Presentation Items:
 2
 3          5.1       Recognition of the Students from Summit Academy Elementary School as the
 4                    Recipients of the Bluffdale Exemplary Student Award.
 5
 6   Mayor Hall recognized students from Summit Academy Elementary School as the recipients of the
 7   Bluffdale Exemplary Student Award. The first recipient was Ivy Huynh from Summit Academy
 8   Bluffdale. She is in the 6th Grade, often gives up her free time at school to help others, and offered to
 9   take on the class jobs of absent students. The second recipient was Emma Walles. She is in the 5th
10   Grade, has a positive attitude, is kind to everyone she meets, and always offers to help others. Analaya
11   Marquez was the third recipient of the Bluffdale Exemplary Student Award. She is in the 1st Grade,
12   is kind to others, and makes the special needs student in her class feel welcome. The fourth recipient
13   was Dawson Wells, who is in the 4th Grade. He makes other students feel included and always helps
14   those in need.
15
16   The City Council congratulated the recipients of the Bluffdale Exemplary Student Award.
17   Photographs were taken with the Council and the recipients of the award.

18
19   6.     Consent Agenda.
20
21          6.1       Resolution No. 2022-40 – Approving the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with
22                    Salt Lake County for 2022-2028 UPDES Media Campaign Cost Sharing.
23
24   Council Member Hales moved to approve the Consent Agenda. The motion was seconded by
25   Council Member Aston. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.
26
27   7.     Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from the Previous Meeting.
28
29          7.1       Ordinance 2022-17 – Amending Title 1 of the Bluffdale City Code Related to
30                    Administration, Including Duties of the Mayor. (Mayor Natalie Hall).
31
32   Mayor Hall pointed out that the proposed amendment had not been previously discussed. Item 7 on
33   the agenda allowed for discussion items and/or items that were continued from a previous meeting.
34   She stated that it was her suggestion to add the item to the current City Council agenda and shared


                                                        7
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   information about strategic planning. Mayor Hall had been reminded countless times that the vision
 2   of the City is the role of the Mayor and Council. The vision evolves and changes as the Mayor,
 3   Council, and City evolve. For instance, more recently, the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition was added.
 4   In addition, the Council asked Staff to work on the Get to the River Festival. The Mayor and Council
 5   asked Staff to plan a celebration for the Porter Rockwell Bridge completion and the Mayor directed a
 6   reading of the Constitution.
 7
 8   As the City continues to grow and the demographics evolve, so will the vision of the City. Mayor
 9   Hall noted that a resident recently approached the City about celebrating Diwali at City Hall.
10   Bluffdale was excited to support diversity through cultural events. The intention was to unify the
11   City. Mayor Hall explained that the amendment to the Ordinance would allow the vision of the Mayor
12   and the Council to continue to be carried out. The packet specified that City employees working on
13   events will remain under the management of the City Manager. There will not be any oversight or
14   management from the Council and Mayor. However, there will be direction as it relates to the vision
15   of the Council and Mayor.
16
17   Mayor Hall reviewed the proposed changes and noted that the language currently states “The Mayor
18   shall be responsible for the supervision and administration of Old West Days.” The new language
19   would change that to all public City events. She suggested that the word “administration” be changed
20   to “direction”. The Council and Mayor would provide supervision and direction on the proposed
21   events. City employees working on those events would remain under management
22   of the City Manager, in accordance with Bluffdale City Code Section 1.70.020(A)(7).
23
24   Council Member Kallas was fine with the proposed amendment. He noted that in 2020, by ordinance
25   the former Mayor is responsible for the supervision and administration of Old West Days due to the
26   COVID-19 pandemic. Council Member Kallas approved of the amendment but asked that Council
27   Members be informed of any major event changes so there could be discussion.
28
29   Council Member Aston asked that Public Works Director, Shane Paddock, address the proposed
30   amendment. Mr. Paddock explained that the overall proposal made sense to him. There are a lot of


                                                      8
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   events in the City and it makes sense to receive direction from the Mayor and Council. He did not
 2   see anything changing necessarily but felt that everything would function better than it does currently.
 3   The amendments will clarify expectations moving forward. However, he believed that eventually the
 4   Park and Recreation events will need to be separate under one department.
 5
 6   Council Member Gaston asked to hear from Ms. Pavlakis. He wanted to know her thoughts about
 7   the proposed amendment because he was skeptical about it. Ms. Pavlakis reported that there was a
 8   meeting on Friday where she first learned about the proposal. The bullet points she took away from
 9   that discussion were that the Mayor felt there should be four events per month, the Council will create
10   a new vision each year, and she would meet with the Mayor weekly to work on things together. What
11   was being presented in the Ordinance sounded somewhat different than that. She expressed concerns
12   related to best practices for event management.
13
14   Over the 3 ½ years, with events as a paid position, Mr. Paddock, the City Manager, and the Mayor
15   had overseen the work. Things had been somewhat muddy and complicated. It was difficult to get
16   things done with the current process in place. Everyone was trying their best and had the best
17   intentions but when there are a lot of different processes in place, decision-making becomes difficult.
18   There have been instances where Ms. Pavlakis waited four months for a contract to be taken care of.
19   As far as the Council and Mayor having a vision and wanting certain events to be held at certain
20   times, she noted that this was already within their power.
21
22   Ms. Pavlakis was concerned about the weekly oversight. There is a lot involved in event management,
23   which includes logistics and professional intricacies. She has 32 years of experience with event
24   coordination and did not want to work in a job where she was micromanaged. Based on what has
25   been presented, she was concerned that she would be micromanaged. Ms. Pavlakis was not certain
26   that this was the intent but it was a serious concern. She knew what it takes to get things done but the
27   process is already difficult due to the oversight that was in place. It was noted that there had been a
28   Staff evaluation of one of her projects. However, she had not been privy to the responses, which
29   made the job difficult. If she was going to be involved and was going to work on events, she needed
30   autonomy.     Council Member Hales wondered how the amendment would make her feel

                                                        9
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   micromanaged. Ms. Pavlakis mentioned meeting with the Mayor once a week. She reported that she
 2   meets once a week with Mr. Paddock as well.
 3
 4   Council Member Gaston pointed out that a future mayor may or may not want to be involved with
 5   the events process. When responsibilities are changed in Ordinances, they should consider future
 6   Mayors and Council Members as well. If an Ordinance change was made, this decision would not
 7   only impact Mayor Hall but future leaders. His thought was that the Ordinance should be inclusive
 8   of the City Council and not just the Mayor. The amendment does not necessarily make sense unless
 9   it includes the full governing body.
10
11   Council Member Hales agreed that the Council needs to consider future leadership as well. He was
12   also concerned about the statement made by Ms. Pavlakis relative to micromanagement. He had
13   spoken to event coordinators in other cities and no other city had the Mayor handling the
14   responsibilities directly. In those other cities, the Mayor and City Council presented a vision and
15   approved the dates of the events each year. However, Council Member Hales believed the intent of
16   the amendment was to do something similar.
17
18   Council Member Aston noted that Ms. Pavlakis had brought up a good point. There seemed to be a
19   lot of steps that needed to be taken before a decision could be made. While the proposed amendments
20   were fine as written, it may be worth rethinking the chain of command she had to deal with. It would
21   also be beneficial to simplify that process. Council Member Crockett agreed. It made sense to pass
22   what was written so all of the events were under one umbrella but noted that it was important for the
23   Events Coordinator to be able to do their job effectively.
24
25   Council Member Kallas explained that there were duties that belonged to the Mayor by State Statute.
26   Those could not be changed but there was discretion to do other things. This amendment fell into the
27   latter category. It was something the Council can add or remove as desired. He was fine with the
28   proposed language because it would provide direction and clarity.
29



                                                       10
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   Council Member Crocket moved to approve Ordinance 2022-17 – Amending Title 1 of the
 2   Bluffdale City Code Related to Administration, Including Duties of the Mayor, with the
 3   amendment that the word “administration” be changed to “direction.” The motion was
 4   seconded by Council Member Aston. Vote on motion: Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council
 5   Member Crockett-Aye; Council Member Hales-Aye; Council Member Gaston-Nay; Council
 6   Member Aston-Aye. The motion passed 4-to-1.
 7
 8   8.     Public Hearing Items.
 9
10          8.1     Ordinance No. 2022-16 – A Zoning Text Amendment Application for The
11                  Centrum at Bluffdale Special District (“SD-X”), BCC 11.110.130, which is located
12                  at the Southwest Corner of 14600 South and Porter Rockwell Boulevard, to
13                  Modify the Number of Apartment Units from 236 to 252 and to Clarify the Use
14                  of Architectural Concrete within the Project, LH Perry Investments, LLC. (Staff
15                  Presenter, Grant Crowell).
16
17          8.2     Resolution No. 2022-42 – A Proposed Development Agreement for The Centrum
18                  at Bluffdale Special District, Located at the Southwest Corner of 14600 South and
19                  Porter Rockwell Boulevard, LH Perry Investments, LLC. (Staff Presenter, Grant
20                  Crowell).
21
22   Mayor Hall explained that Items 8.1 and 8.2 would be presented together. The public hearing would
23   also be combined. The Ordinance and Resolution would be voted on separately. City Planner and
24   Economic Development Director, Grant Crowell, presented background information on the special
25   use district. A mixed-use special district was approved on January 12, 2022, which created a specific
26   zoning designation and regulations for The Centrum at Bluffdale. The property was located at the
27   southwest corner of 14600 South and Porter Rockwell Boulevard and was just under seven acres. The
28   special district approval allows for 236 one and two-bedroom apartment units above a parking
29   structure, with approximately 17,500 square feet of retail space.         That was codified and the
30   Development Agreement was signed. The Development Agreement replaced a 2014 industrial land
31   use approval with the new ordinance language and concept plan.
32
33   After starting the final technical design work for construction, the property owners found that there
34   was more square footage available in the residential structure than originally anticipated. As a result,


                                                       11
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   the request was to increase the number of allowed apartment units to 252, which is a 16-unit increase.
 2   The same types of units were proposed. The parking ratios were proposed to remain the same. The
 3   applicants indicated that there were 504 parking stalls available for the residential units on their
 4   updated parking plan exhibit. Most of the parking was proposed to be in an enclosed parking
 5   structure, with a few spaces adjacent to the apartment building on the east side. As for the commercial
 6   parking, the minimum parking for a commercial area in the zoning code was five spaces per 1,000
 7   square feet. The conceptual site plan showed 138 parking spaces, which was over seven units per
 8   1,000 square feet. However, future tenants were unknown.
 9
10   Mr. Crowell noted that there had been a lot of previous discussion about Rising Star Way. Those
11   discussions related to issues that the development could create as well as existing issues. There was
12   not a traffic light on Porter Rockwell Boulevard. The Traffic Study indicated that one would be
13   warranted based on the development. There was an updated traffic study and the Traffic Engineer
14   was present to discuss that information with the Council. Mr. Crowell reported that the original study
15   showed a gas station on the corner, but after some discussion, it was determined that a gas station was
16   not preferred in that neighborhood. The gas station was removed from the plan. There was a
17   comparison between the original document and what was currently being proposed. The findings
18   indicated that between the original and current proposal, the traffic would be less, even with the 16
19   additional units that were proposed. Mr. Crowell explained that the biggest change in the traffic was
20   the elimination of the gas station.
21
22   Originally, the plan looked at modifications to Rising Star Way, which were approved. As of now,
23   those proposals remained. Mr. Crowell explained that the information was memorialized as Exhibit
24   C in the Development Agreement. He reported that the City had conceptually looked at ideas related
25   to parking and layouts. After the applicant had surveyors and engineers there as well as the utility
26   drawings, those items would be reviewed. Modifications would then be proposed. He explained that
27   the item was not at a Site Plan level at the current time.
28
29   Mr. Crowell overviewed additional proposals. An update to the exterior elevation had been proposed.
30   Work had been done on the architectural elevations since the original proposal. The main clarification

                                                        12
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                  Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   requested by the applicant was to utilize formed and patterned concrete to a greater extent on the
 2   exterior elevations of the parking levels of the residential structures.   Since the Development
 3   Agreement for the project had the entire SD-X zoning chapter as an exhibit, an amendment to replace
 4   that exhibit with the newly proposed language and exhibits would be necessary if the items were
 5   approved. Mr. Crowell was available to answer additional questions.
 6
 7   Mayor Hall had a question about the Planning Commission recommendation. Mr. Crowell reported
 8   that the Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation for the use of architectural
 9   concrete in the apartment structure and updates to the exterior elevations in the zoning ordinance.
10   However, the Planning Commission felt that more findings were needed regarding the traffic impact
11   of the proposed additional 16 apartment units. Mayor Hall asked that the Council discuss the zoning
12   text amendment. The Council could potentially table the proposed Development Agreement pending
13   further discussion.
14
15   Council Member Hales pointed out that there had been a lot of correspondence from residents in
16   support of the application. This was based on the fact that certain money would be given to the
17   Homeowners Association (“HOA”). He wondered if that was part of this approval. Mr. Crowell
18   explained that the City would not be party to an agreement between the developer and an HOA. He
19   understood that discussions had occurred but they did not involve Bluffdale. It was a private issue
20   rather than a City issue. Mayor Hall asked for clarification on the number of apartment units.
21   Originally, the developer was allowed to build 236 units. The reason for the current discussion was
22   because the developer wanted to build 252 units instead. She wondered why the exact number of
23   units had not been finalized previously. Mr. Crowell explained that when the developers began to do
24   more detailed drawings and plans, there was additional space.
25
26   Council Member Kallas asked if the units were getting smaller. Mr. Crowell clarified that the
27   structure was not expanding but that additional space was located internally. He did not know the
28   average unit size but the applicant could share that information with the Council. Council Member
29   Kallas did not recall whether the square footage per unit was discussed previously. Mr. Crowell
30   explained that the zoning ordinance allowed for one- or two-bedroom units but did not specify the

                                                     13
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   proportion of one-bedroom units and two-bedroom units. It did not specify the maximum or minimum
 2   size of the units either. Council Member Kallas did not want to violate something that was previously
 3   agreed to or to shrink units from an already determined measurement.
 4
 5   Council Member Kallas wanted additional clarification about the applications. There was the zone
 6   text amendment application and the Development Agreement.               Based on comments from
 7   Mr. Crowell, it seemed that he had not had time to fully review the Development Agreement and
 8   would prefer more time to look over that information. This was confirmed. Mr. Crowell believed the
 9   Development Agreement was fairly straightforward but there had not been a full legal review. The
10   Development Agreement had been noticed but he only received a copy of the proposed Development
11   Agreement earlier that afternoon. Council Member Kallas thought that materials needed to be
12   submitted at least 24 hours in advance. It had not been in the packet either. Council Member Kallas
13   pointed out that when there are applications for zone text amendments and Development Agreements,
14   they are typically done together. If more time is needed to review the Development Agreement, it
15   might make sense to look at both applications at a future meeting. He thought that the proposal was
16   good but procedures should be followed.
17
18   Mayor Hall asked the City Attorney for clarification. If the Council chose to table both items, she
19   wanted to understand if the public hearing would also be tabled. Alternatively, the public hearing
20   could take place at tonight’s meeting and be left open. City Attorney, James Dunkelberger did not
21   know that it needed to be left open. There was no reason not to move forward with the public hearing
22   at the current meeting. The items could be tabled and considered in a subsequent week. Council
23   Member Hales asked what the benefit was to the City to allow the additional units. Mayor Hall noted
24   that there would be an increase in units, which would be an increase in property tax and impact fees.
25   That would be considered a benefit to the City. Council Member Crockett did not feel that an
26   additional 16 units would create a significant impact. Council Member Kallas pointed out that there
27   had previously been a lot of opposition to the application. There now seemed to be a lot of community
28   support for the application, which was important to keep in mind.
29


                                                      14
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

1    Matt Swain identified himself as the Director of Commercial Development for Perry Commercial.
2    He explained that Perry Commercial was the applicant and owner of the project. The design process
3    was an iterative one. When they came to the City Council back in January, generalities were being
4    used for the square footage of units, open space, corridors, and elevator shafts to determine the unit
5    count. As that information was further refined through the architectural process, it was discovered
6    that there were inefficiencies in the design. There was the capability to add four additional units per
 7   floor. The building envelope would remain the same. As for the parking, an internal ramp had been
 8   designed. As the elevation change was studied, it was discovered that it was possible to enter on one
 9   side and enter the upper floor on a different side. It would be possible to remove the ramp. Some of
10   the structural components also allowed them to find more parking stalls. The two parking stalls per
11   unit ratio would still be accommodated.
12
13   Mr. Swain shared information about the Development Agreement. Typically, after a City Council
14   meeting is concluded and the general modifications to a Development Agreement are agreed to in a
15   motion, they are implemented into a document and approved by the legal counsel. It is up to the City
16   Council to determine what process makes the most sense for Bluffdale. Mr. Swain explained that
17   Perry Commercial was fine being bound to what is currently in the Development Agreement. The
18   only change had to do with the total unit count and the potential use of architectural concrete. He
19   discussed the outreach done with the HOA at Marketplace. Parking is an issue and had been long
20   before Perry Commercial purchased the property. They were reaching out to the HOA in good faith.
21   Perry Commercial wanted to be a good neighbor and maintain its positive reputation. There had been
22   numerous discussions with the HOA Board and a sum of money was offered for parking on the private
23   property. It would be one private entity assisting another private entity. He felt this could be a win-
24   win situation.
25
26   Council Member Gaston asked if parking would be assigned within the building. Mr. Swain explained
27   that it would be assigned. In the structured parking, there would be spots assigned to each unit.
28   Everyone would receive a card key access and it would be gated. Council Member Hales asked about
29   visitor parking. Mr. Swain reported that certain stalls would be designated as visitor parking for the


                                                       15
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

1    residential building. There would be signage to establish those spots. Council Member Hales asked
2    how quickly the HOA funds would be paid. Mr. Swain did not see why it could not be handled within
3    days. Mayor Hall wondered when the project work would start if everything was approved. Mr.
4    Swain hoped it would start in spring 2023.
5
6    Mayor Hall opened the public hearing.
7
8    Rory Duckworth reported that he lives in Spring View Farms and owns a few other properties in
9    Independence, including in Marketplace. He thanked the Council, Mayor, and City Staff for their
10   work and communication. Mr. Duckworth has an end unit for his business on Rising Star Way.
11   Rising Star Way has a lot of issues due to parking and traffic. With the new project coming in, his
12   main concerns pertained to those ongoing problems. He was part of the HOA Board and was opposed
13   to the project at the beginning. While he believed Perry Commercial could create something
14   beneficial, the concerns about parking and traffic on Rising Star Way remained. He noted that Perry
15   Commercial has gone above and beyond. They offered 10 feet to widen Rising Star Way and were
16   willing to donate funds to improve parking. The HOA Board promised to use that money to improve
17   parking in the area. With the assistance of Perry Commercial, it would be possible to reduce an
18   existing issue. He asked that the City approve the additional units so it would be possible to address
19   the ongoing problems on Rising Star Way.
20
21   Brett Minson gave his address as 637 West Koins Way and reported that he is a resident of the single-
22   family homes in the Marketplace neighborhood that abut the proposed development. He voiced his
23   support for the proposed changes as they are minor updates. One would beautify the existing structure
24   and the other would have no measurable impact on a pre-existing issue. It was important to focus on
25   the partnership between Perry Commercial and the community.            In response to the previous
26   opposition, Perry Commercial committed a substantial amount of financial value to address pre-
27   existing problems. The development would be a wonderful addition to the east gateway of Bluffdale
28   and provide much-needed income to the City. It would also provide residents with access to services.
29   There had been almost no negative feedback on the proposed changes. Having been a part of the



                                                      16
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   process from the beginning, he noted that Perry Commercial has been proactive, straightforward, and
 2   a trustworthy partner to the City.
 3
 4   There were no further comments. Mayor Hall closed the public hearing.
 5
 6   Council Member Hales asked if legal counsel felt comfortable with the Council approving the
 7   Development Agreement at tonight’s meeting. It was noted that there was a preference to work with
 8   Mr. Crowell on the review. The Resolution before the Council would pass the Development
 9   Agreement but it might be best to allow the review to happen beforehand. Mr. Crowell believed the
10   terms were simple but he would feel more comfortable with a full legal review. Mr. Dunkelberger
11   stated that his recommendation was to table the Resolution.
12
13   Council Member Kallas supported what was proposed. He was fine with the zone text amendment
14   and the Development Agreement. Based on the work that Perry Commercial had done with the
15   neighbors, it seemed like there was a lot of support for the project. Procedurally, he wanted to table
16   the items for the Development Agreement to be reviewed by legal counsel. Council Member Aston
17   expressed appreciation to the developer for going above and beyond to address existing issues and
18   make sure neighbors were supportive of the development. She was in favor of the proposal but felt
19   that the items should be tabled and brought back. Council Member Crockett agreed. She thought it
20   would be a beautiful project but wanted to err on the side of caution. Council Member Gaston was in
21   favor of the project. Council Member Hales appreciated the effort made by Perry Commercial to
22   address the concerns of the neighbors.
23
24   Council Member Gaston moved to table Agenda Items 8.1 and 8.2 until the October 12, 2022,
25   Meeting. The motion was seconded by Council Member Aston. Vote on motion: Council
26   Member Aston-Aye; Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council Member Crockett-Aye; Council
27   Member Hales-Aye; Council Member Gaston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.




                                                      17
                               DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                     BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                   COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, September 28, 2022

1
2    BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
3
4    1.       Call to Order.
5
6    Redevelopment Agency (“RDA”) Board Chair, Dave Kallas called the RDA Board Meeting to order
 7   at approximately 9:12 p.m. All Board Members were present.
 8
 9   2.       Discussion/Presentation/Action Items:
10
11            a.      Update and Discussion Regarding 14700 South Between Noell Nelson Drive and
12                    Covent Garden Development. (Staff Presenter, Grant Crowell).
13
14   Mr. Crowell reported that Staff discussed a project with the City Council and RDA Board in July
15   2022. It would continue the conversion of an existing gravel private road to a public street along
16   14730 South, within the Eastern Bluffdale Economic Development Area. This was Phase 2 of a public
17   street improvement project that began with the dedication and reconstruction of 855 West. A public
18   street loop between 14600 South and 855 West would be completed with the new phase. Mr. Crowell
19   explained that there were certain milestones and status updates that he wanted to share with the RDA
20   Board. The project milestones and current status were as follows:
21
22        •   855 West (Phase 1) had been dedicated and was essentially complete. Final reimbursements,
23            including any updated costs, were still in review with the developer (Brixton Partners/Covent
24            Garden Holdings). Funding for Phase 1 was shared between the RDA and Covent Garden:
25                 o The Reimbursement Agreement for construction and Impact Fee Reimbursements
26                    incentivized the redevelopment project.
27        •   For Phase 2, the RDA was funding the survey, design, and appraisal costs so far. Ensign
28            Engineering was performing road design work in conjunction with Staff. The Preliminary
29            design was complete. Right-of-way (“ROW”) was needed from eight separate ownership
30            entities, which had been contacted. Design constraints and value engineering led to a proposed
31            59-foot public road cross-section, increasing the existing gravel road right of way by nine feet
32            from 50 feet, and included an intersection design addition for adequate turning radii at 855



                                                        18
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1          West. The design allowed additional width of asphalt but was not designed for continuous
 2          on-street dual-sided parking (that was the commercial development responsibility).
 3
 4   The RDA invested in economic development projects. The investment in the north part of 855 West
 5   was largely funded by the RDA. For the section against Covent Garden, the RDA did a partial
 6   investment by working with impact fees based on the future tax revenue. At the current time, the
 7   RDA Board was looking at how to make a public road out of the next section. Phase 1 was built as
 8   planned. A few months ago, the owners of Covent Garden came to a Work Session and brought up
 9   information about financing and reimbursements.         Those discussions continued to take place.
10   Administrative Services Director, Bruce Kartchner reported that City Staff would come to the City
11   Council with an amended budget within the next few months. One of the adjustments would include
12   an Eastern Bluffdale line item for 14700 South.
13
14   Mr. Crowell reported that City Staff had been asked to investigate a wider cross-section, which had
15   been done. Ensign Engineering went over several possible scenarios and the 59-foot public road
16   cross-section had been drafted. This would add a shoulder and would allow for some buffer space.
17   It was still a low-volume road and was not intended to be a bypass detour. It was a small route and
18   he did not see the need for the center turn lane. He noted that it would be difficult to reach 66 or 70
19   feet because of the existing design constraints. Mr. Crowell shared example images with those
20   present. He explained that on the east side, there were existing buildings, an existing fence, and an
21   existing 50-foot easement. If the full 59-foot cross section was applied, there could be issues with the
22   building plans from Matt Kelly and Shivam Shah. Some of their studies were based on the 50-foot
23   right-of-way. In the negotiation with them, it might be worth considering a reduction to the front
24   setback. There were several possibilities.
25
26   Mayor Hall had a budget question. She asked if the budget presented in the future would be the RDA
27   budget. Mr. Kartchner confirmed this. The intention was to take funds that were already being
28   allocated to overall incentives and infrastructure. That amount would be reduced and the funds would
29   be reallocated specifically to this project. This would ensure that it was calculated separately and
30   showed up separately. Chair Kallas clarified that it had to do with the RDA budget and not the City

                                                       19
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   budget or General Fund.      The funds were not intermingled.        All discussions about a budget
 2   amendment during this portion of the meeting referred to the RDA budget.
 3
 4   Chair Kallas asked about the development scenario with the 59-foot cross-section. He wondered what
 5   commitment the City had to the road currently. Mr. Crowell explained that there was no obligation
 6   to build the road. Mr. Kartchner clarified that there was some level of commitment because the
 7   Council agreed that Staff could spend funds to determine layouts, lines, and cost estimates. However,
 8   there was no obligation to build the road currently. Chair Kallas felt it was important for the involved
 9   parties to understand that the desire was to bring in the necessary infrastructure to make the property
10   successful. If that was not possible, the RDA could focus on other areas. This particular area had
11   been selected because there was potential there. He hoped it would work out for all involved. The
12   reason for the wider road was because there would potentially be heavier vehicle traffic. Additionally,
13   that road could become a shortcut.
14
15   City Engineer, Michael Fazio, felt that the best alternatives had been explored. City Staff believed
16   the 59-foot cross-section would work most effectively. The only issue was related to the setback but
17   he believed those details could be worked out. City Manager, Mark Reid reported that the RDA
18   would be putting forward a significant amount of money. He hoped that the involved landowners
19   would understand that this was beneficial to them as well. Mayor Hall clarified that this was only a
20   presentation and that no decision needed to be made at the current time. This was confirmed.
21
22   Council Member Gaston thought it was wonderful that the road was being done, but he suggested that
23   no vehicles be allowed to park on the road. It might be best to leave the area clear. Council Member
24   Crockett shared comments related to setbacks. She did not have a problem with a smaller setback in
25   the area at the current time. Mr. Crowell noted that if there was support to continue moving forward,
26   City Staff would start to obtain appraisals based on the layout and location. Chair Kallas expressed
27   his support and asked that Staff move forward with studies and discussions. Council Member Aston
28   agreed but believed that 59 feet should be the minimum width.
29



                                                       20
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   Mr. Shah stated that they were excited to move forward on the project. Initially, they had only
 2   purchased one parcel but four more were purchased later. They now own approximately 7.5 acres in
 3   the area. This road would be the backside of his property. If the smaller setbacks are approved, the
 4   development work would be able to move forward. Chair Kallas shared information about design
 5   standards for buildings with smaller setbacks.
 6
 7   3.       RDA Discussion.
 8
 9   There was no further discussion.
10
11   4.       Adjournment.
12
13   The RDA Board Meeting adjourned at approximately 9:35 p.m.
14
15   CONTINUATION OF COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
16
17   9.       Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items.
18
19   Mr. Reid reported on the following:
20
21        •   Staff evaluations continued with only a handful remaining. He explained that all should be
22            completed before the next payroll period.
23        •   Staff met with the architect of the Public Works Building. An evaluation was done for
24            qualified builders. The builders were given certain parameters and six builders were pre-
25            qualified to build the Public Works Building. The expectation was that the project would go
26            out to bid in the next two months. Mr. Reid noted that the Parameters Resolution was for $16
27            million, which was the maximum amount. At the current time, it appeared that the costs would
28            be approximately $15 million. The City continued to try to find ways to keep the costs down.
29            One of the concerns was related to increasing bond prices. The City was able to get a bond
30            under 2% the last time and it was near 4% now. The bond prices had doubled and it looked
31            like they would increase again before the end of the year. That was a significant concern for
32            the City.




                                                          21
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                  COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1      •   There was a meeting to recap the Old West Days event. Mr. Reid appreciated the feedback
 2          received from the Mayor and the efforts of everyone involved.
 3      •   The Halloween event was coming up. Details would be finalized in the next few days.
 4      •   There was an article in The Salt Lake Tribune related to the Fire Department. It included
 5          quotes from Mayor Hall and some firefighters. Mr. Reid thought it was a pretty positive
 6          article.
 7      •   The new Battalion Chiefs were in place and there had been some improvement in staffing as
 8          a result.
 9      •   Messrs. Reid and Kartchner had been working on an alternate budget in case $558,000 of
10          revenue was lost. In that instance, City Staff would come to the City Council with details
11          related to that option. It might impact employees and reserves.
12
13   Council Member Aston noted that Council Member Crockett had approached her with an idea and
14   she had moved forward with it. She had also spoken to Mr. Reid about it, who had discussed the idea
15   with legal counsel. Council Member Aston wanted the Mayor and Council to consider a supply
16   donation bin for Primary Children’s Hospital. This was something she felt the community would
17   want to support. The use of toys and supplies was needed throughout the year. A supply donation
18   drive would be worthwhile and could benefit many in need. Mayor Hall suggested that the Youth
19   Council be involved in that project. The Council was supportive of the idea. Council Member Aston
20   offered to work out the details with the hospital.
21
22   Council Member Kallas was told that there was an agreement to do striping on the road by Mountain
23   Point Elementary School. He was not certain whether there was an actual agreement in place or if it
24   was simply a need in the area. Several residents brought up issues related to the north-south road, as
25   there were challenges with pickups and drop-offs. It was noted that the issue may have to do with
26   crossing guards parking their cars there. Other vehicles were not able to get around to make a
27   righthand turn. The intention was to pull back the parked car so there would be enough room. Mr.
28   Fazio had heard discussions about red striping the curb. Council Member Kallas believed the issues
29   expressed by residents had to do with the loading and unloading. It seemed that there were a lot of


                                                          22
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                 COMBINED MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, September 28, 2022

 1   people parking on the road, which limited the road to a one-lane width. Mr. Fazio noted that one
 2   comment had suggested that the school bus take a different route. The school district had been
 3   contacted to make sure that change would be made.
 4
 5   Council Member Crockett asked about the Halloween event date. She wanted to know if the event
 6   was scheduled during the Jordan School District fall break. Mr. Reid believed the Halloween event
 7   was scheduled for October 24, 2022. He could see if it was possible to move that date. Council
 8   Member Crockett felt that might be beneficial in terms of attendance numbers. Several Council
 9   Members were unable to attend on October 24, 2022. It was suggested that the event take place on
10   October 17, 2022, instead. This would be before fall break. Mr. Paddock offered to send the Council
11   an email confirming the date and event details.
12
13   10.    Closed Meeting.
14
15   There was no Closed Meeting.
16
17   11.    Adjournment.
18
19   Council Member Hales moved to adjourn. The motion was seconded by Council Member
20   Gaston. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.
21
22   The City Council Meeting adjourned at 9:55 p.m.
23
24
25   __________________________________
26   Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
27   City Recorder
28
29   Approved: _________________________




                                                       23
             REQUEST FOR CITY COUNCIL ACTION

To:                             Mayor and City Council
From:                           Grant Crowell
Date:                           2 November 2022
Business Date:                  9 November 2022
Subject:                        City Initiated Text Amendment Regarding Small Accessory Buildings
Staff Presentation:             Grant Crowell

PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
To approve the proposed ordinance amendments to Bluffdale City Code to Bluffdale City Code sections 11.20
(Definitions), 11.160 (Supplementary Provisions), and 11.80 (Residential Zones) to update the standards
related to allowed locations for small accessory buildings and structures, as recommended by the Planning
Commission.

SUMMARY:
On February 22, 2017, the City Council approved Ordinance 2017-05 allowing small accessory buildings closer
to side and rear property lines (2’, if placed on skids). Requirements to adhere to the process for construction
within easements remain essentially intact.

The Council asked Staff to review this existing ordinance to alleviate the portable and skids requirement and
to potentially allow zero setbacks, reduce the distance from main dwelling requirement from 10’ to 0’, allow
detached accessory buildings in side yards near the front of house, allow additional building height, increase
lot coverage maximums in Clustered Residential Parry Farms and Spring View Farms, and some other
administrative changes. Staff reviewed initial draft text with the Council on September 14, 2022. From that
meeting, two public hearings were held, and two ordinance drafts reviewed with the Planning Commission
before their recommendation was made.

From a building code standpoint, when distances between buildings and between buildings and property
lines are generally less than five feet, additional construction requirements are required. Things such as
increased fire wall construction and reduction of openings are typically seen to address this condition.
Distance between buildings may provide both an aesthetic impact and some additional fire separation than
what is required by the adopted building and fire codes. The Fire Department’s recommendations were
incorporated into the final ordinance draft and described in the attached PC update memo.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
         • Proposed Ordinance 2022-18, with attachment
         • October 14 Planning Commission Update Memo
         • October 3 Planning Commission Staff Report
         • Basic Site Plan Example
                                       ORDINANCE NO. 2022-18

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING BLUFFDALE
CITY CODE 11.20.020 (DEFINITIONS), 11.160 (SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS) AND 11.80
(RESIDENTIAL ZONES) UPDATING THE STANDARDS RELATED TO ALLOWED LOCATIONS FOR SMALL
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES INCLUDING LOT COVERAGE

         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or appropriate
for the use and development of land within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the subject text amendment modifies the regulations for the placement of small
accessory buildings, including setbacks and overall lot coverage in certain residential zones to
increase flexibility for storage and property usage; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and gave the City Council its
recommendation; and

        WHEREAS, after holding a public hearing and reviewing the subject text amendment, the
City Council finds that the subject text amendment will not negatively impact public health, safety,
and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as follows:

                                             See Exhibit A

         SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS 9th DAY OF
November, 2022, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                        YES     NO      ABSTAIN         ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas




                                                                                                 Page 1 of 3
Mayor:                     Attest:
         Natalie C. Hall             City Recorder




                                                     Page 2 of 3
Exhibit A – Small Accessory Buildings Ordinance Amendments




                                                             Page 3 of 3
Exhibit A. Zoning Ordinance Changes for Small Accessory Buildings


Amend Existing Definition
11.20.020 General Definitions

...

PORTABLE SMALL ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any small accessory building or , compact
structure that is 400 square feet or less.mounted on skids or otherwise constructed so that it can be
readily moved from one location to another without change in structure or design. Small accessory
Portable buildings shall have no connected utilities with the exception of electric power. that can be
readily disconnected.

...

Amend Existing Land Use Code

11.160.230: Construction Within Easements

No dwelling, main building, accessory structures, portable small accessory building or structure, or
swimming pool shall be located within a recorded easement area unless the property owner either
produces written evidence satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator that the easement has been
released, modified, allowed to be encroached upon, or executes a recordable document, in a form
approved by the Ccity Aattorney, indicating that notwithstanding apparent existence of the easement,
the structure may be subject to the superior interest of the easement holder and may be required to
be relocated at the property owner's expense to accommodate such interest. The City is considered to
have an interest within Public Utility Easements in subdivisions, to be verified by the City Engineer.

A. Location: Any structure in an easement area shall be located pursuant to the setback and other
    applicable requirements of this title.

B. No Expansion Of Legal Rights: Nothing in this section is intended to expand or restrict the rights or
    obligations of any party to any recorded easement.

...

11.160.260 Portable Small Accessory Buildings and Structures

      A. Portable Small accessory buildings and structures shall be allowed to be constructed in any
         residential zone within any required rear or side yard setbacks, subject to the following
         requirements:
             1. Portable Small accessory buildings and structures shall be subject to the permit and
                construction requirements of all adopted building and fire codes;
             2. Shall not be constructed closer than two (2’) feet to any side or reard property line.



                                                    1
            3. Shall adhere to the requirements of City Code section 11.160.230-16-25 if proposed
               to be constructed within recorded utility easements;
            4. Shall be limited to a maximum of 400 square feet in floor area, which shall be
               included in a parcel’s overall lot coverage;
            5. Shall have a maximum wall height of 120 feet, excluding end gables, and a maximum
               roofline height of 165 feet;
            6. Shall be used for storage use only;
            7. Shall May be located in the rear or side yard, no less than 10 feet behind the front
               vertical plane of the most rearward wall of the primary of the dwelling;
            8. Shall not overhang into or direct any drainage from the building or foundation into
               any adjacent property.

    B. Portable Small accessory buildings and structures within any non-residential zone may be
       allowed within any rear or side yard setbacks without setback limitations, subject to the
       following requirements:
       1. Shall conform to all site plan approval and design requirements found in City
           Ordinances;
       2. Shall be subject to the permit and construction requirements of all adopted building
           and fire codes;
       3. Shall adhere to the requirements of City Code section 11.160.230-16-25 if proposed to be
           constructed within easements;
       4. Shall be limited to a maximum of 400 square feet in floor area, which shall be included in
           a parcel’s overall lot coverage;
       5. Shall have a maximum wall height of 120 feet, excluding end gables, and a maximum
           roofline height of 165 feet;
       6. Shall be used for storage use only;
       7. Shall be located in the rear yard, behind the vertical plane of the most rearward wall of
           the primary structure;
       8. Shall not overhang into or direct any drainage from the building or foundation into any
           adjacent property.

R-1-43 specific changes

11.80.010.110 Permissible Lot Coverage
The sum total of all buildings and structures on any parcel in the R-1-43 Residential Zone shall not be
greater than thirty percent (30%) of the total area of the parcel. In the subdivisions within Parry Farms
and Spring View Farms, which were approved as Clustered Residential Overlay Zones, the maximum
permissible lot coverage is forty percent (40%) of the total area of the parcel.


11.80.010.100 Distance Between Buildings
The distance between any accessory building and any dwelling shall not be less than ten feet (10'). The
distance between any accessory building and another accessory building shall not be less than two feet
(2’).


                                                   2
R-1-10 Specific Changes

11.80.020.100 Distance Between Buildings
The distance between any accessory building and any dwelling shall not be less than ten feet (10'). The
distance between any accessory building and another accessory building shall not be less than two feet
(2’).




                                                  3
MEMORANDUM
TO:             Planning Commission
FROM:           Grant Crowell
DATE:           14 October 2022
SUBJECT:        Small Accessory Buildings Update

On October 5, 2022, the Planning Commission reviewed proposed changes to the current portable
building provisions which apply to certain accessory buildings of 400 square feet or less. A draft
ordinance proposal was reviewed which presented one side of the spectrum of ordinance options,
eliminating most setback requirements for these structures. The item was continued with the public
hearing remaining open so that Staff could get additional review and recommendations from the Fire
Department. The attached draft has the following changes made from the original:

    •   Reverted to the current two feet setback requirements from the side and rear year (from 0’ in
        original draft)
    •   Still allowed in side yard, but must be behind the front of the house (current ordinance requires
        that they are placed in the rear yard behind the dwelling)
    •   Reverted to current requirement for the small structure to be ten feet from the main dwelling
        (original draft had 0’ distance requirement)

The analysis of the Fire Department focused on several key aspects:
  •    That although the adopted building codes and fire codes do not necessarily prohibit buildings
       being constructed in close proximity to each other or property lines (with increased construction
       code requirements), the distances and setbacks are important for life safety considerations, such
       as:
                  o The existing 2’ setback from rear and side property lines, albeit small, does provide
                    some ability to access around a structure and can mitigate some potential spread of
                    fire to adjacent properties. This could save some time during an incident.
                  o Regarding the 10’ distance between accessory buildings and dwellings, the current
                    code requirements provide ample access to the rear yard for a firefighter with gear
                    and fire hoses. Decreasing that to 0’ would hinder that access. They did mention that
                    some distance (enough for firefighters with gear) is better than none, but that the
                    existing 10’ is preferred.
                  o Additionally, it was mentioned that these storage buildings often contain gasoline,
                    mixed fuels, oils, paints, etc. which can cause intense fires quickly. Life safety and
                    access are higher priorities than property conservation in the event of emergencies.
                                          2222 West 14000 South
                                            Bluffdale, UT 84065
                               801.254.2200(o) 801.446.8642(f) TTY 7-1-1

                                               STAFF REPORT
                                               October 3, 2022

To:                     City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By:            Grant Crowell

Re:     City Initiated Text Amendment regarding location requirements for small accessory buildings
        and structures

        Application No.:        2022-38
        Applicant:              City of Bluffdale
        Request:                To review proposed ordinance amendments to Bluffdale City Code sections
                                11.20 (Definitions), 11.160 (Supplementary Provisions), and 11.80 (Residential
                                Zones) to update the standards related to allowed locations for small
                                accessory buildings and structures.

SUMMARY
On February 22, 2017, the City Council approved Ordinance 2017-05 which created a new framework for
locating small accessory buildings closer to side and rear property lines. From this point on – meeting
certain requirements – a property owner could locate an accessory building up to 400 square feet within two
feet of a side and rear property line. One of the most specific requirements to do so is that the building must
be a portable structure, constructed on skids or similar. Requirements to adhere to the process for
construction within easements remain essentially intact.

The Council asked Staff to review this ordinance to alleviate the portable requirement and to potentially
allow zero setbacks, reduce the distance from main dwelling requirement from 10’ to 0’, allow detached
accessory buildings in side yards near the front of house, allow additional building height, increase lot
coverage maximums in Clustered Residential Parry Farms and Spring View Farms, and some other
administrative changes. Staff reviewed initial draft text with the Council on September 14, 2022. These
changes are proposed to give maximum flexibility in locating smaller buildings in residential zones. After
discussing these ideas with Council in a preliminary ordinance draft, Staff was directed to proceed with a text
amendment application and to seek Planning Commission input.

From a building code standpoint, when distances between buildings and between buildings and property
lines are generally less than five feet, additional construction requirements are required. Things such as
increased fire wall construction and reduction of openings are typically seen to address this condition.
Distance between buildings may provide both an aesthetic impact and some additional fire separation than
what is required by the adopted building and fire codes. Staff is awaiting further recommendations from the

                                                                 Application 2022-38: City Initiated Text Amendment for
                                                                           Small Accessory Buildings, PC Mtg. 10.5.2022
                                                                                                                 Page 1
Fire Department at this time but has discussed this ordinance with the Chief Building Official.

ANALYSIS
The proposed amendments include the following:

Update definition for portable structures:

11.20.020 General Definitions
...
PORTABLE SMALL ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any small accessory building or , compact
structure that is 400 square feet or less.mounted on skids or otherwise constructed so that it can be readily
moved from one location to another without change in structure or design. Small accessory Portable
buildings shall have no connected utilities with the exception of electric power. that can be readily
disconnected.
...
Amend Existing Land Use Code regarding construction in easements

11.160.230: Construction Within Easements

No dwelling, main building, accessory structures, portable small accessory building or structure, or
swimming pool shall be located within a recorded easement area unless the property owner either produces
written evidence satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator that the easement has been released, modified,
allowed to be encroached upon, or executes a recordable document, in a form approved by the Ccity
Aattorney, indicating that notwithstanding apparent existence of the easement, the structure may be subject
to the superior interest of the easement holder and may be required to be relocated at the property owner's
expense to accommodate such interest. The City is considered to have an interest within Public Utility
Easements in subdivisions, to be verified by the City Engineer.

A. Location: Any structure in an easement area shall be located pursuant to the setback and other applicable
    requirements of this title.

B. No Expansion Of Legal Rights: Nothing in this section is intended to expand or restrict the rights or
    obligations of any party to any recorded easement.

...

11.160.260 Portable Small Accessory Buildings and Structures
   A. Portable Small accessory buildings and structures shall be allowed to be constructed in any
       residential zone within any required rear or side yard setbacks, subject to the following
       requirements:
           1. Portable Small accessory buildings and structures shall be subject to the permit and
              construction requirements of all adopted building and fire codes;
           2. Shall notMay be constructed closer than two (2’)with no setback requirement feet to any
              side or reard property line.
           3. Shall adhere to the requirements of City Code section 11.160.230-16-25 if proposed to be
              constructed within easements;


                                                                  Application 2022-38: City Initiated Text Amendment for
                                                                            Small Accessory Buildings, PC Mtg. 10.5.2022
                                                                                                                  Page 2
            4. Shall be limited to a maximum of 400 square feet in floor area, which shall be included in a
               parcel’s overall lot coverage;
            5. Shall have a maximum wall height of 120 feet, excluding end gables, and a maximum
               roofline height of 165 feet;
            6. Shall be used for storage use only;
            7. Shall May be located in the rear or side yard, behind the front vertical plane of the most
               rearward wall of the primary dwelling;
            8. Shall not overhang into or direct any drainage from the building or foundation into any
               adjacent property.

    B. Portable Small accessory buildings and structures within any non-residential zone may be allowed
       within any rear or side yard setbacks without setback limitations, subject to the following
       requirements:
       1. Shall conform to all site plan approval and design requirements found in City Ordinances;
       2. Shall be subject to the permit and construction requirements of all adopted building and fire
           codes;
       3. Shall adhere to the requirements of City Code section 11.160.230-16-25 if proposed to be
           constructed within easements;
       4. Shall be limited to a maximum of 400 square feet in floor area, which shall be included in a
           parcel’s overall lot coverage;
       5. Shall have a maximum wall height of 120 feet, excluding end gables, and a maximum roofline
           height of 165 feet;
       6. Shall be used for storage use only;
       7. Shall be located in the rear yard, behind the vertical plane of the most rearward wall of the
           primary structure;
       8. Shall not overhang into or direct any drainage from the building or foundation into any
           adjacent property.

R-1-43 Zone specific changes

11.80.010.110 Permissible Lot Coverage
The sum total of all buildings and structures on any parcel in the R-1-43 Residential Zone shall not be greater
than thirty percent (30%) of the total area of the parcel. In the subdivisions within Parry Farms and Spring View
Farms, which were approved as Clustered Residential Overlay Zones, the maximum permissible lot coverage
is forty percent (40%) of the total area of the parcel.
11.80.010.100 Distance Between Buildings
The distance between any accessory building, which is not classified as a small accessory building or structure,
and any dwelling shall not be less than ten feet (10'). Small accessory buildings and structures shall have no
required distance between the building and any dwelling.


R-1-10 Zone Specific Changes

11.80.020.100 Distance Between Buildings



                                                                  Application 2022-38: City Initiated Text Amendment for
                                                                            Small Accessory Buildings, PC Mtg. 10.5.2022
                                                                                                                  Page 3
The distance between any accessory building, which is not classified as a small accessory building or structure,
and any dwelling shall not be less than ten feet (10'). Small accessory buildings and structures shall have no
required distance between the building and any dwelling.
MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION

Model for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment Application 2022-38, based on the findings presented in the staff report dated September
30, 2022, (or as modified below):”

    1. That the proposed amendment provides for additional options for siting small accessory buildings.
    2. That the proposed amendment will require adherence to construction safety codes.




                                                                 Application 2022-38: City Initiated Text Amendment for
                                                                           Small Accessory Buildings, PC Mtg. 10.5.2022
                                                                                                                 Page 4
Model for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment Application 2022-38, based on the findings presented in the staff report dated April 1,
2022, (or as modified below):”

   1. List all findings…




                                                             Application 2022-38: City Initiated Text Amendment for
                                                                       Small Accessory Buildings, PC Mtg. 10.5.2022
                                                                                                             Page 5
                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                                RESOLUTION NO. 2022-47

      A RESOLUTION APPROVING THE 2023 ANNUAL MEETING SCHEDULE

       WHEREAS the City Council desires to approve the 2023 Annual Meeting Schedule
required by State statute.


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL:


        Section 1.     Meetings of the Bluffdale City Council. The Bluffdale City Council
generally will meet on the second and fourth calendar Wednesday of each month, with Work
Session meetings to begin generally at 6:00 p.m., and regular Business Meeting sessions to
begin generally at 7:00 p.m., at the Bluffdale City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah
on the following dates:
       January 11, 25                May 10, 24            September 13, 27
       February 08, 22               June 14, 28           October 11, 25
       March 08, 22                  July 12, 26           November 08
       April 12, 26                  August 23             December 13
      The City Council, meeting in its ex officio capacity as the Board of Trustees of the Local
Building Authority of the City of Bluffdale (“LBA”), and the Board of Directors of the Bluffdale
City Redevelopment Agency (“RDA”), will meet on an “as needed” basis, on the foregoing
Wednesdays for which more specific published notice is given.
       Section 2.    Meetings of the Bluffdale City Planning Commission. The Bluffdale
City Planning Commission generally will meet on the first and third calendar Wednesday of each
month, with meetings to begin generally at 6:00 p.m., at the Bluffdale City Hall, 2222 West
14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah on the following dates:
       January 04, 18                May 03, 17            September 06, 20
       February 01, 15               June 07, 21           October 04, 18
       March 01, 15                  July 05, 19           November 01
       April 05, 19                  August 16             December 06
       Section 3.      Public Hearings. Public Hearings before the City Council will generally
begin at 7:00 p.m. and Public Hearings before the Planning Commission will generally begin at
6:00 p.m. or at such other times as published or posted in the official “notices” of such public
hearings.
         Section 4.   Other Meetings. The foregoing legislative and administrative bodies may
hold such other meetings, study sessions, work sessions, budget meetings, and other meetings, at
such times and locations for which specialized notice thereof is given, as required by state
statute.
         Section 5.  Electronic Meetings. The foregoing legislative and administrative bodies
may hold meetings by electronic means via telephonic conference call, as required by state
statute.
       Section 6.     Public Notification. The City Recorder is directed and authorized to
cause a photocopy of this Resolution to be sent to a newspaper of general circulation within the
community.
        Section 7.     Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
its passage and authorizes and directs the Mayor to execute and cause to be delivered the same.



PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED the 9th day of November, 2022.




                                                        By: ________________________
                                                           Mayor Natalie C. Hall
ATTEST:

___________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder



Voting by the City Council:              Aye        Nay

Council Member Aston                   _____        _____
Council Member Crockett                _____        _____
Council Member Gaston                  _____        _____
Council Member Hales                   _____        _____
Council Member Kallas                  _____        _____
            REQUEST FOR CITY COUNCIL ACTION
To:                              Mayor and City Council
From:                            Grant Crowell
Date:                            2 November 2022
Business Date:                   9 November 2022
Subject:                         Updates to the Design Guidelines for the Gateway Redwood Zone for
                                 The Ranch
Applicants:                      Woodbury Corporation
Application #:                   2022-47
Staff Presentation:              Grant Crowell

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY:

The Gateway Redwood Zone is a unique commercial development zone on the SE corner of Bangerter and
Redwood. It is the only location in the community where this zoning district is applied. The ordinance was
approved in its current form on December 9, 2015, to reflect its current development plan with the
Woodbury Corporation. As a companion to the land use ordinance text were a set of visual illustrations
and descriptions referred to as “Concept Plan and Design Guidelines”. As an administrative document, and
not a land use ordinance, these updates are proposed to be adopted by resolution by the City Council and
do not require a public hearing.

The design guidelines document is an administrative document to further assist in implementing the
Gateway Redwood Ordinance during site plan review. On August 25, 2021, the City Council approved
Resolution 2021-47, which updated the guidelines with a new concept plan which included the FatCats
development and an updated layout to correspond with a more current leasing and design plan. Since
then, Woodbury has further refined their development plan with the additional of a hotel site (also referred
to as the hospitality area) in the area formerly designated as solely office in the east side of the project. The
guidelines also need to be updated to clarify that a hotel can be allowed up to 50’ high within the office
area that allows up to 100’ for office construction per the adopted ordinance.

Updates in the 2022 version are:
   • Page 2. New photo in the table of contents page
   • Page 4. Updated general concept plan illustration, Section 1.1.
   • Page 8. Descriptive concept plan updated. showing hospitality added to the former office area, and
      showing potential commercial (non-office) uses there, Section 02.
   • Pages 12 and 16. Clarifying that hotels can be up to 50’ in height in the office/hospitality area,
      Sections 4.2 and 4.5.
   • Page 18. Hospitality Conceptual Renderings added to document, with 50’ height line depicted,
      Section 4.
   • Page 27. Added dimension to the tenant panel in within the allowed 20’ monument sign, Section 5.
   • Page 33. Added reference to meeting City water efficiency standards, Section 6.1

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:
   1. Resolution 2022-48, with updated exhibit
                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-48

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
AMENDING THE CONCEPT PLAN AND DESIGN GUIDELINES REFERENCED IN
THE GATEWAY REDWOOD ZONE.

        WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City is a municipal corporation and political subdivision of the
State of Utah (the “City) and is authorized to enter into development agreements that it considers are
necessary or appropriate for the use and development of land within the City pursuant to Utah Code
§ 10-9a-102, et seq.; and

       WHEREAS, on December 9, 2015, the City Council of the City of Bluffdale (the “City
Council”) approved a new Gateway Redwood Zone for the development near Redwood Road and
Bangerter Highway as Ordinance 2015-14; and

      WHEREAS, as a part of the Gateway Redwood Zone, the City Council also approved a
Concept Plan and Design Guidelines administrative document for development within Gateway
Redwood zoning area; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council approved Resolution 2021-47 On August 25, 2021, amending
the Concept Plans and Design Guidelines from the 2015 version; and

       WHEREAS, since then, the developer’s concept plans, layouts and potential tenants have
changed, and the developer is proposing an updated Concept Plan and Design Guidelines; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the public health,
safety, and welfare of City to amend the Concept Plan and Design Guidelines for the Gateway
Redwood zone for the orderly development of that area.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Approval. The City Council hereby approves the Amendment to the Concept
Plan and Design Guidelines, attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

       SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON
THIS 9th DAY OF November, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                      YES       NO    ABSTAIN         ABSENT

                       Councilmember Aston
                       Councilmember Crockett
                       Councilmember Gaston
                       Councilmember Hales
                       Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                                Attest:
         Natalie C. Hall                                        City Recorder
See Attached Exhibit 1, Updated Concept Plan and Design Guidelines for The
Gateway Redwood Zone (The Ranch)
Exhibit 1. Updated Concept Plan and Design Guidelines for the Gateway Redwood Zone




The Ranch
Conceptual Master Plan & Design Guidelines
City of Bluffdale, Utah
October 2022
Table of Contents

   01    Introduction                              3
          1.1 Vision
          1.2 Goals
          1.3 Inspiration
          1.4 Project Style




   02 Master Plan                                  7


   03 Streetscape                                  9
          3.1 Streetscape Style


   04 Architectural Style                          11
          4.1 Massing
          4.2 Height
          4.3 Form
          4.4 Materials
          4.5 Office Buildings
          4.6 Anchor Tenant Prototype Elevations
   05 Signage & Wayfinding                         19
          5.1 Wayfinding Opportunitites
          5.2 Sign Types


   06 Landscape Style                              27
          6.1 Landscape Types
          6.2 Furnishings
          6.3 Lighting
Section 01
Introduction
Introduction




                                                                                                    Section 01
1.1 Vision
A Catalyst for Community

The Ranch is envisioned to provide a core commercial node for
Bluffdale City by improving tax base, adding jobs and creating a
vibrant destination for residents and visitors.




1.2 Goals


- Leveraging access and neighborhood support services will create
an office and retail environment to attract users, jobs and tax base
for Bluffdale City.



02 Image & identity

- Redevelopment of this gateway to the City with destination uses
and amenities will solidify The Ranch as a “City Center” and create
a transforming and iconic image and identity for Bluffdale City.




                                                                       CONCEPTUAL MASTER PLAN




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved                                    4
Introduction




                                                                          Section 01
1.3 Inspiration
A New Take on the Old West

Cowboys and cattlemen are a fundamental part of Utah’s economic
and social heritage and endure today as part of a western legacy
that strongly influences contemporary attitudes and lifestyles of
many Utahns.

The Ranch will draw its style and architectural character from the
cattle ranches of the old west, while at the same time avoiding the
clichéd image of other new traditional developments.

As Bluffdale continues to grow and evolve, The Ranch seeks to set
a positive precedent for how future growth could look, while at the
same time respecting and calling attention to its
past.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved          5
Introduction




                                                                         Section 01
1.4 Project Style
Ranch Inspired Look

Using the ranch theme as its inspiration, the project style of The
Ranch combines the design elements of architecture, landscape,
signage, furnishings, and lighting together in a cohesive way that
creates a unique destination for visitors of all ages.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved         6
Section 02
Concept Master Plan
Concept Master Plan




                                                                   Section 02
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   8
Section 03
Streetscape
Streetscape Style




                                                                                                                                Section 03
                                                                    3.1 Streetscape Style
                                                                    Overall Strategy
                                                                    Consistent use of streetscape features such as street
                                                                    lights, trees and landscaping, paving patterns and street
                                                                    furnishings can contribute to the unique and unifying
                                                                    character of the overall development.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   10
Section 04
Architectural Style
Architectural Style Massing




                                                                         Section 04
4.1 Massing
The massing arrangement of buildings follows traditional
western main street patterns--stepping back as buildings
rise and varying height between structures. Details such as
columns, porches, covered sidewalks and roof eaves help
break up the massing of larger buildings and provide a more
pedestrian-friendly experience.


4.2 Height
Buildings in the retail core are not allowed to exceed 28’ tall.

Architectural features may be up to 40’ tall. The area of these
features may not exceed 15% on pad buildings. On interior or
in-line buildings, architectural features shall not exceed 30% of
the front elevation.

Anchor Tenants and/or midbox tenant as shown on the
Conceptual Masterplan may not exceed 40’ in height. Hotel
tenants adjacent to Bangerter Highway within the office/
hospitality area, shall not exceed 50’.


4.3 Setbacks
Consistent with the Conceptual Master Plan, setbacks will be
maintained adjacent to all public roadways and residential
areas.

The required setback along Redwood Road and Bangerter
Highway shall be 20 feet from the roadway.

The required setback along 13970 South (Marketplace Drive)
shall be no less than 10 feet. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the setback south of 13970 South may be less than 10 feet if
necessary to accommodate 4 rows of parking between the road
and the property line as shown on the Master Plan.

The required setback for the sole Residential Area on the south
edge of the property shall be no less than 6.5 feet from the
property line.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved        12
Architectural Style Form




                                                                      Section 04
4.3 Form
Overall Strategy
The quality of a development is supported by the built
form, which should be of a coherent and appropriate
character, with opportunities for diversity. Such diversity is
achieved by combining features such as porticoes, balconies
terraces, pergolas, and sun-shading devices.



Key Elements:
-Facade elements such as pergolas should be utilized in order
to create a seamless link between internal and external areas
and appear as extension of building.

- Sunscreens and other energy conserving elements are
encouraged on western and southern exposures.

- Pergolas and screens should be made of durable materials
such as timber or metal.

- Design buildings with roof eaves in order to provide shading
and weather protection to windows and doors.

- Well- balanced proportions are also important for
improving the appearance of structures, helping to relate
various elements such as doors, windows and entries.
Well proportioned elements on the facade of the buildings
significantly imporve its aesthetic value.

- Flat parapet roofs need to be considered within the overall
streetscape and need to relate harmoniously with the
neighboring buildings.

- General utilities such as mechanical equipment should not
be visible from the street or other public spaces and should
be screened appropriately using materials and details that
compliment the overall project theme.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved     13
Architectural Style Form




                                                                    Section 04
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   14
Architectural Style Form




                                                                                                          Section 04
                                                                        APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF
                                                                        RESIDENTIAL BUFFER


                                                                                                  20 FT


                                                               751 FT




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved    15
Architectural Style Materials




                                                                               Section 04
4.4 Materials
Overall Strategy
The use of specific materials will help enhance the BD Ranch’s
simple, yet rustic western theme. Using just a few base materials
in different ways allows for a rich variety of expression, while
reinforcing the project’s overall sense of place.

The concept of “rustic simplicity” means using traditional rustic
materials in new contemporary ways, which create a feeling of
cohesion and timelessness throughout the project.


Colors
The color palette is inspired by age. Rust-colored corten steel and
warm hues of weathered wood, brick and stone evoke a sense of
timelessness that will allow BD Ranch to still look current, enven as
design trends shift and change.

Landscape colors should be chosen to contrast with the
architectural backdrop, for example, bright green or beige grasses
setup against a burnt-orange corten steel backdrop.



4.5 Office Buildings / Hospitality
Building heights in the office/hospitality area (as shown in the
Conceptual Master Plan) of up to 100’ are allowed in order to reflect
the corporate character of the tenant user if the building is an office
use. If the use is hospitality, heights of up to 50’ are allowed.

Office and hospitality buildings may take on a different character
in material and form than the rest of the development, in order
to provide flexibility to accommodate the character of the tenant
user. Hospitality conceptual renderings have been included
on subsequent pages. Office building types shall meet design
guidelines.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved              16
                                                                    Section 04
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   17
                                                                                Section 04
                                                                    UP TO 50’




   HOSPITALITY CONCEPTUAL RENDERINGS




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   18
Section 05
Signage and Wayfinding
Signage & Wayfinding




                                                                        Section 05
5.1 Wayfinding Opportunities




                                                                                01
Overall Strategy
A comprehensive wayfinding program will promote a better
visitor experience and improve traffic patterns by providing
essential information that visitors, workers and residents
need in order to find the property from a distance and easily
navigate the interior of the development.

Signs
The signs within The Ranch will share a common theme
while also providing variety and interest to the area. Signs
should reflect the atmosphere desired by the area in which
they are located. Because of the importance of signs in
reinforcing the The Ranch image, signs must be carefully
considered in their location and look. Use of natural materials
that relate and blend into the western prairie environment are
encouraged.


5.2 Sign Types
Marquee
Large marquee signs, both digital and non-digital need to be
carefully considered. The marquee sign will function as more
than just tenant signage by becoming a visual landmark for
the entire property.

Alternatives to the free-standing marquee signs is to use the
building facade as a digital billboard.
District Area Sign
Billboard signs, like the marquee sign, will be a visual lanmark
for the development. It can be utilized as advertisement space
for the tenants within the development. The sign must have
sufficient height to be visible from the highway as well as over
the overpass.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved       20
Signage & Wayfinding




                                                                       Section 05
5.2 Sign Types




                                                                               01
Entry Monument
After the marquee sign, the entry monument is the first
thing visitors will see when entering The Ranch. Here is an
opportunity to harmoniously blend the monument signs into
the meadow-esque landscape surrounding the development.

The signs themselves should contain minimal, contrasting
materials such as stone and corten steel. This way, the
legibility of the sign is enhanced through both color and
texture and the size of the sign can be reduced to create a
more intimate arrival experience.

Entry monument signs may be highlighted with concealed
light sources or individual letter type on architectural
background.



Tenant Monument
Individual tenant monument signs should make use of a materials
palette similar to that used on the marquee monument signs and
they should be complementary to the site’s architecture. Tenant
monument signs should be scaled for viewing at close range by
both pedestraians and vehicular traffic. Digital and electronic
signage may not be used for individual tenant monuments. All
tenant monument signs should have a uniform design, materials,
and size.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved      21
                                                                    Section 05
                                                                            01
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   22
                                                                                                         Section 05
                                                                                8’x30’




                                                                                10’x20’




                                                                                10’x30’ LED
                                                               80’                            80’


                                                                                10’x20’




                                                                                10’x20’




                                                                          35’                       8’




                     BLUFFDALE MARKETPLACE
                     80’ MARQUEE SIGN


THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved         23
                                                                    Section 05
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   24
                                                                    Section 05
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   25
                                                                    Section 05
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   26
                                                                                                     Section 05
                                                                                                             01
                                                                         20’




                                                                                        4’ x 1’-3”




                                                                    3’         13’-6”




        BLUFFDALE MARKETPLACE
        20’ MONUMENT SIGN



THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   27
                                                                    Section 05
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   28
                                                                    Section 05
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   29
                                                                    Section 05
THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved   30
Signage & Wayfinding




                                                                         Section 05
Facade




                                                                                 01
Facade signage provides an opportunity to further support
the wayfinding strategy by orienting vistors throught the
development. Tenant signs and logos must not compete with
each other for visibility, but instead, blend seamlessly into the
their environment.

Banners, laser cut steel, and hand painted murals--when
used together provide a rich variety that compliments each
other.

Building signage must provide complementary character to
the feel of the development in order to ensure consistency
and quality between buildings and throughout the
development. Flexibility may be allowed for national tenants
concerning trade dress, materials and color palette.


Storefront
The highest concentration of signage detail and variety
comes at the storefront level. Storefront facade and window
signs interact directly with the visitors up close and showcase
the unique characteristics of the individual tenants. Care
must be taken to ensure different tenant signs are crafted to
meet overall color, material and form objectives in order to
feel appropriate to the context of the larger project. Under
canopy, blade, banner, and appropriately scaled sub signage
should be provided.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved        31
Section 06
Landscape Style
Landscape Style




                                                                         Section 06
6.1 Landscape Types




                                                                                 01
Transitional Meadow
Inspired by open prairie grasslands, the landscaped areas
buffering the development from its neighbors takes on a
grassy meadow feeling. Large groups of native and adaptive
plant species blend seamlessly into the natural surroundings
near the South Jordan Canal & Trail. Native and low-water
plants should be combined with drip type irrigation in order
to promote water conservation.

All landscaping should be drought resistant and meet city adopted
water efficiency standards.


Streetscape
The streetscape and planting areas within the development
take on more ornamental varieties, while still portraying a
distinct southwest palette. Contrasting yellow and purple
flowers flow freely between informal boulders and more
structured landscape elements. Careful placement of street
trees and tree groupings provides shade and helps visually
narrow street widths while also framing storefronts and
tenant signage.

Minimal amounts of decorative paving may be counted as
landscaping if it is being used to beautify and ease transition
into landscaping zones.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved        33
Landscape Style




                                                                      Section 06
6.2 Furnishings




                                                                              01
Overall Strategy
Furnishings are important elements that help reinforce the
overall theme and vision of The Ranch. Furnishings should be
chosen that help reinforce the concept of”rustic simplicity.”
This means using traditional rustic materials in new
contemporary ways, which create a feeling of cohesion and
timelessness throughout the project.

Opportunities to connect architectural colors and materials
with furnishings is encouraged. Variety of furnishings
between retailers and restaurants is also encouraged in order
to reduce monotony and reinforce a unique sense of place for
each tenant.


Streetscape
Streetscape furnishings include bollards, tree grates, and
light poles. Traditional details are permitted while avoiding
overly ornate fixtures.

Seating
Seating at The Ranch can come in many different forms.
Traditional benches may be appropriate,but use of colored
concrete seatwalls and reclaimed wood benches can provide
a more natural and whimsical look to other areas
throughout the site.

Accents
Incorporating boulders, reclaimed objects, or other sculptural
accents is encouraged. Custom furnishings in key locations
help provide a unique experience for visitors that cannot be
had elsewhere.

Bike racks shall be placed and integrated into the project
site plan and architecture.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved     34
Landscape Style




                                                                               Section 06
6.3 Lighting




                                                                                       01
Overall Strategy
The lighting at The Ranch will help set the mood and tone
of the place after the sun goes down. While safety is the
number one concern with the lighting strategy, it is also
important to use subtle accents that are designed to
be attractive and comfortable to pedestrians. Internally
illuminated signage should be tastefully located on facades
in a manner that does not drown out background materials.
Backlit cabinet-type signs are prohibited.




Key Elements
- Avoid competing light levels and maintain balanced light levels
on-site. The exterior lighting design must take into account the
background lighting levels, lighting from other sources, and
characteristics of the surrounding area.

- Minimize light glare and trespass beyoned the property line where
adjacent to residential neighborhoods.

- Light fixtures should be traditional in scale and material but can be
contemporary in detail.

- Provide a variety of light fixtures that help reinforce the unique
qualities of the different buildings and spaces throught the site.

- Parking lot lamps shall provide sufficient light for larger parking
fields.

- Comply with city ordinance requirements.

- Particular care must be paid to adjacent residential areas.




THE RANCH BLUFFDALE, UT design guidelines
September 2022 Copyright 2014 iBi group, All Rights Reserved              35
                                    Michael Fazio, P.E. City Engineer




                                             Memo

Date: 9 November 2022
From: Michael Fazio, P.E., City Engineer
To:    Mayor Hall
       City Council
CC:    Mark Reid, City Manager


RE:    Micro-Trenching Standard – ST6C and D



The City Engineering department prepared new standard(s) for micro-trenching in the pavement
for fiber conduits. The draft for this standard was presented to the City Council last September.

Staff made all the corrections according to City Council recommendations. Staff also met with the
Google Fibers representatives who plan on using this method to install their glass fibers throughout
the City, to have their input and comments. Some of their comments have been implemented to
improve the standard (mastic and grout).

Two existing standards had to be updated to include the concepts in the new standards. I
recommend approving the new standards: Micro-Trenching Standard – ST6C and D.




                                  2222W 14400W, Bluffdale, Utah 84065;
                                 Tel. 801-559-7781; mfazio@bluffale.com
City Standards Update
        Microtrenching
Micro-trenching Standard
• Presented to City Council in September
• Generic new standard for any fiber company installation
• Two new standard drawings
• Two updated existing standards
Standard Drawing ST6C
(New)
Standard Drawing ST6D
Standard Drawing ST6A (Updated)
Standard Drawing ST6B
Questions?
                              CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2022-19

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CITY STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.

WHEREAS the City Engineer has prepared standard drawings and specifications to be used
as a guide to development and the construction of infrastructure throughout the City;

WHEREAS the City has previously adopted City Standards and Specifications as provided
by Ordinance No. 2-23-99-1, as amended (“Standards”);

WHEREAS drawings, in particular, are required to provide a quick reference to concise and
relevant information;

WHEREAS specifications are required to provide detailed information regarding
construction materials, testing, procedures, and methods of construction; and

WHEREAS the City Council desires to amend the existing Standards as follows:

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.      Adoption of Revised Standards. The City Council hereby adopts the
attached standard drawings and specifications as part of the City Standards and
Specifications, as contained in Exhibit A.

       Section 2.     Repealer. Any prior Standards inconsistent with the attached
Standards are hereby amended. All other existing Standards, details, and specifications are
not hereby amended and remain in full force and effect.

       Section 3.     Severability. If any part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all provisions, clauses and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 4.      Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately after
recording in the Office of the City Recorder.

PASSED AND DATED: November 09, 2022.

                                                      _____________________________
                                                      Mayor Natalie C. Hall
Attest:                               [seal]

_____________________
City Recorder
Voting by the City Council:   Aye   Nay   Absent

Councilmember Aston           ___   ___   ___
Councilmember Crockett        ___   ___   ___
Councilmember Gaston          ___   ___   ___
Councilmember Hales           ___   ___   ___
Councilmember Kallas          ___   ___   ___
            EXHIBIT A

ENGINEERING STANDARDS
                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-49



A RESOLUTION AMENDING THE BLUFFDALE EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND
PROCEDURES MANUAL RELATED TO DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY,
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART, POSITION DESCRIPTION INDEX, AND SALARY
SCALE.

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale (“City”) has adopted an Employee Policies and Procedures
Manual (“Policies”);

WHEREAS the City desires to amend Policies pertaining to the Drug and Alcohol Policy
compliant with Utah State Legislature recently amending policies regarding the use of medical
marijuana for public employees, including first responders; and

WHEREAS the City desires to adopt a Revised Organizational Chart, Position Description
Index, and Salary Scale;

    NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY
COUNCIL:

              Section 1. Adoption of Amendment to the Employee Policies and
Procedures Manual. The City Council hereby amends the Employee Policies and Procedures
Manual as follows:

...

7.130. Drug and Alcohol Policy.

...

(m)     Prescribed Drug Use. This policy shall not apply to the proper use of drugs prescribed to
an employee by a licensed physician who has been informed of the employee’s occupation and job
duties and is of the opinion that the employee can safely work while taking the prescribed drug.
All employees shall inform the licensed physician of the employee’s occupation and job duties
and ask the physician if the employee can perform such duties while taking the prescribed drug. If
the licensed physician is of the opinion that the employee cannot safely work or perform his or her
job duties while taking the prescribed drug, the employee shall report the prescribed drug use and
the physician’s opinion regarding its use in writing to the employee’s supervisor or the City
Manager or designee prior to performing any work for the City. (n) Disclaimer. The use of
medical cannabis pursuant to a valid prescription. However, the use of medical cannabis less than
12 hours prior to the public safety (first responder) employee’s shift is prohibited.
...
       Section 2.    Adoption of a Revised Organizational Chart, Position Description
Index, and Salary Scale. The Bluffdale City Organizational Chart is hereby revised as shown in
Exhibit A. The Bluffdale City Position Description Index by Department and the Hourly and
Annual Pay Plan Steps are hereby revised as shown in Exhibit B.

       Section 3.    Effective Date. This resolution shall become effective immediately upon
adoption.

       PASSED, ADOPTED, AND APPROVED: November 9, 2022.

                                                  CITY OF BLUFFDALE


                                                  _________________________________
                                                  Mayor Natalie C. Hall

ATTEST:                                           [seal]


___________________________________
City Recorder


Voting by the City Council:         Yes    No     Absent

       Councilmember Aston          ____   ____   ____
       Councilmember Crockett       ____   ____   ____
       Councilmember Gaston         ____   ____   ____
       Councilmember Hales          ____   ____   ____
       Councilmember Kallas         ____   ____   ____
            EXHIBIT A


ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
                                          Organizational Chart
                                              Mayor                 City Council (x5)



               Mayor’s Assistant/                      City Manager
                Communication
                  Specialist



                                                                                                          Police Service   Administrator
                                                                                                           (Contract)       of the Court




 Administrative                         Public Works                     Community and           City
                        City Engineer                  Fire Chief     Economic Development                                   Justice
Services Director                         Director                                             Attorney                    Court Judge
                                                                           Director



                                                                                             Assistant City
                                                                                             Attorney / City
                                                                                              Prosecutor




                                                                                                               November 2022
                                        Organizational Chart
                                                    Administrative
                                                   Services Director                         Mayor



Finance Director    City Recorder                                      AV Technician     Communications
   (Contract)                                                                              Specialist/
                                                                                             Mayor’s
                                                                                            Assistant


                     Deputy City                    Finance Manager
                      Recorder




                   Accounting       HR / Payroll        Finance           Secretary/     Court Clerk
                   Technician        Technician        Assistant         Receptionist




                                                                        Crossing Guard     Bailiff
                                                                                         (Contract)




                                                                                                          November 2022
                                Organizational Chart

                                     City Engineer




                                     Assistant City      Engineering     SWPPP Inspector /
 Engineering      Assistant                             Construction      Encroachment       Engineering
Administrator   City Engineer       Engineer / Water
                                        System            Manager            Officer          Designer




                                                         Construction
                                                       Inspector—Water




                                                                                     November 2022
                                                   Organizational Chart
                                                                 Public Works
                                                                   Director




                                                                         Recreation       Water Systems           Street
Office Assistant                   IT Specialist                                           Maintenance                             Park Maintenance
                                                                        Coordinator                             Maintenance
                                                                                          Superintendent      Superintendent        Superintendent



                                                      Event            Site Supervisor      Water Lead          Streets Lead          Parks Lead
                   Fleet Manager                   Coordinator




                                                                       Sports Official   Water Operator II   Streets Operator II    Parks Worker II
                                                                                         Water Operator I    Streets Operator I     Parks Worker I
                                                                                          Water Seasonal      Streets Seasonal      Parks Seasonal




                                                                                                                            November 2022
                                       Organizational Chart
                                                       Fire Chief




   Administrative               Emergency            Battalion Chief                                       Inspector
     Assistant                   Manager




                Captain Station                                            Captain Station
                       91                                                         92



Lieutenant          Paramedic          Firefighter            Lieutenant     Paramedic       Firefighter




                                                                                                                  November 2022
                   Organizational Chart
                                Community and
                             Economic Development
                                   Director




                                                               Animal Control
Senior/Associate   Chief Building              Code Enforce-       Service
    Planner           Official                  ment Officer     (Contract)




                   Development
                   Coordinator




                                                                                November 2022
                 EXHIBIT B


POSITION DESCRIPTION INDEX
        Bluffdale City Position Description Index By Department
Job Code Department                 Class Title                                      Pay Grade
  100     Administrative Services   *City Manager                                       29
  101     Administrative Services   Assistant City Manager                              28
  105     Administrative Services   *Administrative Services Director                   28
  106     Administrative Services   Finance Director                                    27
  110     Administrative Services   *City Attorney                                      28
  111     Administrative Services   *Assistant City Attorney / City Prosecutor          22
  115     Administrative Services   Law Clerk                                           19
  116     Administrative Services   *Legal Administrative Assistant                     13
  120     Administrative Services   *City Treasurer / Accounting Supervisor             27
  131     Administrative Services   *Finance Manager / Office Manager                   22
  128     Administrative Services   Accountant                                          20
  121     Administrative Services   *Accounting Technician                              15
  129     Administrative Services   *HR/Payroll Technician                              15
  122     Administrative Services   Accounting Clerk                                    12
  123     Administrative Services   Payroll Clerk                                       13
  124     Administrative Services   *Finance Assistant                                  15
  125     Administrative Services   *City Recorder                                      20
  126     Administrative Services   *Deputy City Recorder                               14
  127     Administrative Services   *Communications Specialist / Mayor's Assistant      16
  130     Administrative Services   Personnel Coordinator                               13
  135     Administrative Services   Customer Service Representative                     11
  136     Administrative Services   *AV Technician                                      11
  140     Administrative Services   *Secretary/Receptionist                              9
  141     Administrative Services   *Crossing Guard                                      8
  200     Community Development     *Community and Economic Development Director        26
  210     Community Development     City Planner/Economic Development Dir.              26
  211     Community Development     Planning Administrator                              19
  212     Community Development     Planning Technician II                              15
  213     Community Development     Planning Technician I                               14
  214     Community Development     *Senior Planner                                     19
  215     Community Development     *Associate Planner                                  17
  220     Community Development     *Chief Building Official                            21
  222     Community Development     Plans Examiner                                      18
  225     Community Development     Building Inspector III                              17
  226     Community Development     Building Inspector II                               16
  227     Community Development     Building Inspector I                                14
  230     Community Development     ACOE Supervisor                                     17
  231     Community Development     ACOE Officer II                                     16
  232     Community Development     *ACOE Officer I - Code Enforcement                  15
  233     Community Development     Community Development Secretary                     14
  235     Community Development     *Development Coordinator                            14
  240     Community Development     GIS Specialist                                      18
  245     Community Development     Planning Intern                                      8
  300     Engineering               *City Engineer                                      27
  301     Engineering               *Assistant City Engineer / Water Systems            23
  305     Engineering               *Engineering Construction Manager                   21
  306     Engineering               *Assistant Construction Manager                     21
  307     Engineering               *Civil Engineer                                     21
  310     Engineering               Engineer I                                          19
  320     Engineering               *Engineering Designer                               18
  325     Engineering               Engineering Technician                              16
  330     Engineering               *Encroachment Officer / Drainage Inspector          16
  330     Engineering               Engineering Inspector                               15
Job Code Department           Class Title                        Pay Grade
  335    Engineering          *Engineering Administrator            15
  335    Engineering          Administrative Assistant              14
  345    Engineering          Engineering Intern                     8
  400    Public Works         *Public Works Director                25
  405    Public Works         Public Works Operations Manager       24
  406    Public Works         Public Works Project Manager          22
  407    Public Works         *Fleet Manager                        19
  408    Public Works         *IT Specialist                        18
  410    Public Works         *Water Systems Superintendent         20
  411    Public Works         *Water Lead                           18
  415    Public Works         *Street Superintendent                20
  416    Public Works         *Street Lead                          18
  420    Public Works         Shop Supervisor                       18
  425    Public Works         *Parks Superintendent                 17
  426    Public Works         *Parks Lead                           16
  430    Public Works         Mechanic, Journey                     15
  431    Public Works         Mechanic, Apprentice                  14
  435    Public Works         *Water Systems Operator II            16
  436    Public Works         *Water Systems Operator I             14
  440    Public Works         *Street Maintenance Operator II       15
  441    Public Works         *Street Maintenance Operator I        13
  445    Public Works         *Park Maintenance Worker II           14
  446    Public Works         *Park Maintenance Worker I            12
  450    Public Works         *Seasonal Laborer                      5
  451    Public Works         *Office Assistant                     14
  455    Public Works         *Event Coordinator                    14
  456    Public Works         *Event Intern                          8
  460    Public Works         *Recreation Coordinator               14
  461    Public Works         *Site Supervisor                       3
  462    Public Works         *Sports Official                       1
  500    Fire                 *Fire Chief                           25
  500    Fire                 Public SafetyDirector/Fire Chief      25
  501    Fire                 Assistant Fire Chief                  24
  505    Fire                 *Battalion Chief                      22
  510    Fire                 Fire Marshal/Training Officer         21
  515    Fire                 *Fire Captain                         21
  516    Fire                 *Fire Inspector                       14
  517    Fire                 *Emergency Program Manager            22
  518    Fire                 *Paramedic                            19
  519    Fire                 *Lieutenant                           18
  520    Fire                 Fire Fighter III                      17
  521    Fire                 Fire Fighter II                       16
  522    Fire                 *Fire Fighter I                       15
  530    Fire                 *Administrative Assistant             11
  600    Municipal Court      *Justice Judge                        26
  605    Municipal Court      Court Clerk Supervisor                16
  610    Municipal Court      *Court Clerk II                       14
  611    Municipal Court      *Court Clerk I                        13
  620    Municipal Court      Bailiff                               13

         * Active Positions
                           Hourly Pay Plan Scale                         Annual Pay Plan Scale
               Pay Grade                                     Pay Grade
                           Minimum       Mid       Maximum               Minimum       Mid       Maximum
                      1     $9.94       $12.23      $14.51      1         $20,675     $25,428    $30,181
                      2     $10.44      $12.84      $15.24      2         $21,715     $26,707    $31,699
                      3     $10.96      $13.48      $16.00      3         $22,797     $28,038    $33,280
                      4     $11.51      $14.16      $16.80      4         $23,941     $29,442    $34,944
                      5     $12.08      $14.86      $17.64      5         $25,126     $30,909    $36,691
                      6     $12.68      $15.60      $18.52      6         $26,374     $32,448    $38,522
                      7     $13.32      $16.39      $19.45      7         $27,706     $34,081    $40,456
                      8     $13.99      $17.21      $20.42      8         $29,099     $35,786    $42,474
                      9     $14.68      $18.06      $21.44      9         $30,534     $37,565    $44,595
                  10        $15.42      $18.97      $22.51      10        $32,074     $39,447    $46,821
                  11        $16.19      $19.92      $23.64      11        $33,675     $41,423    $49,171
                  12        $17.00      $20.91      $24.82      12        $35,360     $43,493    $51,626
                  13        $17.85      $21.96      $26.06      13        $37,128     $45,666    $54,205
                  14        $18.74      $23.05      $27.36      14        $38,979     $47,944    $56,909
                  15        $20.42      $25.12      $29.82      15        $42,474     $52,250    $62,026
                  16        $22.26      $27.38      $32.50      16        $46,301     $56,950    $67,600
                  17        $24.26      $29.84      $35.42      17        $50,461     $62,067    $73,674
                  18        $26.45      $32.53      $38.61      18        $55,016     $67,662    $80,309
                  19        $28.82      $35.45      $42.08      19        $59,946     $73,736    $87,526
                  20        $31.42      $38.65      $45.87      20        $65,354     $80,382    $95,410
                  21        $34.25      $42.13      $50.00      21        $71,240     $87,620    $104,000
                  22        $37.33      $45.92      $54.50      22        $77,646     $95,503    $113,360
                  23        $40.69      $50.05      $59.41      23        $84,635    $104,104    $123,573
                  24        $44.36      $54.56      $64.76      24        $92,269    $113,485    $134,701
                  25        $48.35      $59.47      $70.59      25       $100,568    $123,698    $146,827
                  26        $52.70      $64.82      $76.94      26       $109,616    $134,826    $160,035
                  27        $57.44      $70.65      $83.86      27       $119,475    $146,952    $174,429
                  28        $62.61      $77.01      $91.41      28       $130,229    $160,181    $190,133
                  29        $68.25      $83.95      $99.64      29       $141,960    $174,606    $207,251




Revision 2022‐11‐09
City of Bluffdale
RDA/EDAs
Summary Report

                                                   Eastern Bluffdale   Jordan Narrows
                                                         EDA                 EDA          Gateway RDA
Fund Balance - 06/30/2022                            17,023,644.94       15,083,467.47    All funds are
                                                                                          contractually
Tax Revenue - Budget                                  6,564,000.00       2,392,592.70      committed.
Admin Fees                                             (525,120.00)       (239,259.27)

Low Income Housing                                   (5,274,657.53)      (4,066,180.02)

Other Committed Funds:
    Professional & Technical                           (150,000.00)

    Storm Water 14600 South                            (500,000.00)
    850 West                                           (400,000.00)
    Signage & Branding                                 (100,000.00)
    Economic Development                               (600,000.00)        (300,000.00)
    Mink Farm                                                            (1,500,000.00)
    PRB-Pony Express Connection                        (500,000.00)          (2,000.00)
    Day Ranch Park                                                       (7,200,000.00)
    Heritage 76 Collector                                                (1,500,000.00)
    Harmon Day Collector                                                   (300,000.00)
    Rising Star                                        (300,000.00)
    14700 South (Noell Nelson to Covent Gardens)     (1,000,000.00)

Uncommitted Fund Balance - 6/30/2023                 14,237,867.41       2,368,620.88

Tax Revenue - Projection                              7,998,872.81
Admin Fees                                             (639,909.82)                -

Low Income Housing                                   (1,599,774.56)                -

Other Committed Funds:
    Professional & Technical                           (150,000.00)
    PRB-Pony Express Connection                        (700,000.00)
    14700 South (Noell Nelson to Covent Gardens)     (1,000,000.00)

Uncommitted Fund Balance - 6/30/2024                 18,147,055.83       2,368,620.88

Tax Revenue - Projection                              8,790,473.27
Admin Fees                                             (703,237.86)
Low Income Housing                     (1,758,094.65)

Other Committed Funds:
    Professional & Technical             (150,000.00)
    Trestle                            (5,000,000.00)

Uncommitted Fund Balance - 6/30/2025   19,326,196.59    2,368,620.88

Tax Revenue - Projection                1,000,000.00
Admin Fees                                (80,000.00)

Low Income Housing                       (200,000.00)

Other Committed Funds:
    Professional & Technical             (150,000.00)
    Major Project Incentives           (5,000,000.00)

Uncommitted Fund Balance - 6/30/2026   14,896,196.59    2,368,620.88
RDA/EDA Potential Projects Discussion – Idea Generator 11/9/2022



Identified/Potential Projects for Prioritization and Planning Purposes
    • Mink farm relocation (assist to buy down land cost) ($1.5M) 495k sq ft x$3/ft (Jordan Narrows)
    • 14600 S revitalization and infrastructure construction, betterments, ultimate build, etc.
         (Eastern)
    • Pony Express Connector road (Jordan)
    • Real estate, property assembly, incentives and infrastructure near prison development site and
         14600 S (Eastern)
    • 14700 South road project (Eastern)
    • Affordable housing set aside recurring
             o County contribution
             o Develop our own targeted affordable housing project – example in S Jordan
             o More assistance with existing 2 affordable housing apartments
    • Day Ranch park obligation
    • Rising Star Way investment


Past Investments

   •   Rockwell Ridge Business Park ($280k) (Eastern)
   •   14600 S street and storm drain improvements (Eastern; $1.3M EDA)
   •   850 West Public Road Conversion and Reimbursement ($400k plus)(Eastern)
   •   Remaining payback obligations to Woodbury based on original agreement tax increment
       (Gateway)
   •   14600 S revitalization, infrastructure and beautification consultant ($100k, Eastern)
   •   Annual affordable housing set asides and distribution


Previous Potential Project and Ideas

   •   Freeway Hotel Site (went dark) (Eastern)
              NOVEMBER                                                      DECEMBER
**All month: Primary Children’s Hospital Supply Drive
      6:15 pm - Neighborhood Emergency Plan Section Leader        Silent Santa, 4-9 pm
  1   Meeting                                                 5
                                                                  Amatuer Radio Class, 7 pm
      2-4 pm - Animal Licensing Clinic                         6 6-7:30 pm One Lane Bridge Open House
  2   5 pm - Meet with the Mayor                                  2-4 pm - Animal Licensing Clinic
      6 pm - Planning Commission                               7 5 pm - Meet with the Mayor
  3   6:30-9 pm - Citizen’s Academy                               6 pm - Planning Commission
  5   8-9 am Mayor’s Volunteer Apreciation Breakfast         8-10 Bluffdale Arts A Christmas Carol - City Hall
  7   Final Fall CERT Drill                                    9 End Primary Children’s Hospital Supply Drive
      Election Day                                            12 Bluffdale Arts A Christmas Carol - City Hall
  8
      7 pm - HAM Radio Training                               14 6 pm - City Council
 9    6 pm - City Council                                     15 6:30 pm Healthy Bluffdale
 10   6:30-9 pm - Citizen’s Academy                           16 Employee Christmas Party - City Offices close at noon
 11   Veterans Day - City Offices Closed                          Blood Drive
 15   5 pm - Youth Council                                    20 5 pm - Youth Council
 16   5 pm - Council Chat                                     21 5 pm - Council Chat
 17   6:30 pm Healthy Bluffdale                               23 City Offices close at noon
      City Blood Drive                                        25 Christmas Day
 22
      7 pm - HAM Radio Training                               26 Christmas Observed - City Offices Closed
 23   City Offices Close at noon                              29 7-9 pm - Auditions for Seussical
 24                                                           30
      Thanksgiving Day - City Offices Closed
 25                                                           30 City Offices close at noon
      City Offices Closed
                                                              31 9 am - Noon - Auditions for Seussical
 26   Santa and the Lights




                  JANUARY                                                    FEBRUARY
  2   New Year’s Day Observed - City Offices Closed           1   2-4 pm - Animal Licensing
  3   6:15 pm - Neighborhood Emergency Plan Section Leader        6 pm - Planning Commision
      Meeting                                                 2   6:30 pm - Spring CERT Class Start
      2-4 pm - Animal Licensing Clinic                            6:15 pm - Neighborhood Emergency Plan Section Leader
                                                              7
  4   5 pm - Meet with the Mayor                                  Meeting
      6 pm - Planning Commission                              8   6 pm - City Council
  6   North Star Academy Art Show Reception                   9   6:30 pm - Spring CERT Class
 10   7 pm - HAM Radio Training                              14   BAAB Murder Mystery Dinner
 11   6 pm - City Council                                         6 pm - Planning Commission
 16                                                          15
      Martin Luther King Day - City Offices Closed                5 pm - Council Chat
 17   5 pm - Youth Council                                        6:30 pm - Spring CERT Class
                                                             16
 18   5 pm - Council Chat                                         6:30 pm - Healthy Bluffdale
      6 pm - Planning Commission                             20   President’s Day - City Offices Closed
 19   6:30 pm - Healthy Bluffdale                            21   5 pm - Youth Council
 24   7 pm HAM Radio Training                                22   6 pm - City Council
 25   7 pm - City Council                                    23   6:30 pm - Spring CERT Class
