BLUFFDALE CITY                                                                                Mayor Natalie Hall
CITY COUNCIL                                                                                  Councilmember Wendy Aston
MEETING AGENDA                                                                                Councilmember Traci Crockett
City Council Chambers                                                                         Councilmember Jeff Gaston
                                                                                              Councilmember Mark Hales
Wednesday, May 24, 2023, at 6:00 p.m.
                                                                                              Councilmember Dave Kallas


Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council will hold a meeting on Wednesday, May 24, 2023, at Bluffdale City Hall,
2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. The meeting will begin at 6:00 PM or as soon thereafter as possible. This meeting
will also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. The public may comment at the meeting or by emailing
comments to councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com by 4:00 PM the day of the meeting. Emailed comments will be
submitted to the City Council but will not be read at the meeting. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by the
City Council may be by electronic means.
In the event the meeting is disrupted in any way that the City in its sole discretion deems inappropriate, the City reserves the
right to immediately remove the individual(s) from the meeting and, if needed, end virtual access to the meeting. Reasons
for removing an individual or ending virtual access to the meeting include but are not limited to the posting of offensive
pictures, remarks, or making offensive statements, disrespectful statements or actions, and any other action deemed
inappropriate.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION 6:00 P.M. (The work session is for identifying future items and other
council discussion. In accordance with Utah Code § 52-4-201(2)(a), while the meeting may be open to the public, there will
not be any opportunity for public input during the work session).
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call).
2.    Discussion/Presentation Items:
      2.1   Parry Farms Recovery Update (Staff Presenter- Shane Paddock).
      2.2   Legislative Update on Land Use (Staff Presenter- Grant Crowell).
      2.3   Discussion on Ordinance No. 2023-08– TABLED APRIL 26, 2023 – Amending Bluffdale City Land Use
            Ordinances regarding Accessory Dwelling Units, Bluffdale City Code (BCC) Chapter 11.340 and
            associated definitions in BCC 11.20, City of Bluffdale, applicant. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
3.    Council Discussion:
4.    Adjournment.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*).
2.    Minute and Agenda Approval:
      2.1   April 26, 2023, City Council, LBA & RDA Combined Meeting Minutes.
      2.2   Approval of this meeting’s agenda.
3.    Mayor and Council Reports:
4.    Presentation Items:
      4.1 Recognition and thank you to the Bluffdale Crossing Guards for school year 2022-2023 (presenter Mayor
      Hall)
5.    Public Comment: (This is a time and place for any person who wishes to comment on items not scheduled on the
      agenda for public hearing. Any person or group wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public
      hearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his or her

City Council Meeting – May 24, 2023                                                                                 Page 1 of 2
      name for the record or by emailing councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Comments should be limited to not
      more than four (4) minutes, unless additional time is authorized by the Chair. Groups wishing to comment will be
      asked to appoint a spokesperson. Items brought forward to the attention of the City Council will be turned over to
      staff to provide a response outside of the City Council meeting.)
6.    Consent Agenda: (These items are considered by the City Council to be routine and will be enacted by a single
      motion. If discussion is desired on any particular consent item, that item may be removed from the consent agenda
      and considered separately. No public comment will be permitted.)
      6.1   None.
7.    Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from Previous Meeting: (These items are considered by the
      City Council individually. No public comment will be permitted.)
      7.1   Discussion and vote on Ordinance No. 2023-08– TABLED APRIL 26, 2023 – Amending Bluffdale City
            Land Use Ordinances regarding Accessory Dwelling Units, Bluffdale City Code (BCC) Chapter 11.340
            and associated definitions in BCC 11.20, City of Bluffdale, applicant. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
      7.2   Discussion and vote on Resolution No. 2023-22- Fireworks Restrictions (presenter Matt Evans)
8.    Public Hearing Items: (Public comments must abide by the requirements listed above).
9.    Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items:
10.   Closed Meetings - if any: (This meeting will be closed to the public for one of the stated purposes found in Utah Code
      § 52-4-205(1), which is usually for one of the following purposes: discussion of the character, professional competence,
      or physical or mental health of an individual; discuss collective bargaining; discuss pending or reasonably imminent
      litigation; discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, including water rights or water shares).
11.   Adjournment.
                                                CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I hereby certify that the foregoing notice and agenda was submitted to the South Valley Journal, the Salt Lake Tribune, and
the Deseret News; posted at the Bluffdale City Hall and on the City’s website (www.bluffdale.com), delivered to each member
of the Bluffdale City Council; and posted on the Utah State Public Notice website (www.pmn.utah.gov).


Published and posted on May 18, 2023.



                                                              Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                              City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation
for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
*Contact the City Recorder if you desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.




City Council Meeting – May 24, 2023                                                                               Page 2 of 2
             REQUEST FOR CITY COUNCIL ACTION

To:                             Mayor and City Council
From:                           Grant Crowell
Date:                           17 May 2023
Business Date:                  24 May 2023
Subject:                        City Initiated Text Amendment Regarding Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
Staff Presentation:             Grant Crowell

At the April 26, 2023, City Council meeting, the Council held a public hearing on proposed amendments to the
City’s ADU regulations. Discussion often focused on the size of ADUs, as a total maximum square footage or as
a percentage of the primary dwelling. Staff was asked to create some additional definitions for what is
included in the calculations of total square feet for the primary dwelling (from which the size limitations for
ADUs is calculated) and for what space is considered part of the ADU when calculating its maximum size.

Staff has amended the code to use the Salt Lake County Assessor’s Office total square feet calculation for all
floors – excluding garage – as the primary dwelling basis and to use the definition of habitable space from the
building code for determining the maximum size of the ADU; this definition excludes storage spaces and
similar non-living areas. The code remains with the size limitation of 50% of the primary dwelling for all ADUs.

The number of large accessory buildings in the community, and that many allegedly are being used in part for
housing, creates a significant number of potential non-conformities. Coupling the new ordinance with the
large buildings allowed in Bluffdale could potentially hinder permitting of ADUs, or lead to the current
practice of labeling large areas of detached structures as unfinished or storage space. Many of these spaces
could easily be converted to bedrooms later without a permit, which appears to be the current situation in
many structures in Bluffdale. Not requiring the 50% proportion, or loosening it up to be more permissive,
could alleviate some of this potential conflict. Setbacks, overall building coverage, and additional parking
spaces could also address some concerns in lieu of that.

Some additional language to address non-conformities was clarified in the document with a new date of
acceptance of previous construction of July 1, 2023. Also, a section was added to the non-conformities
section which allows previously completed (by 7/1/23) accessory buildings to not modify existing entrance
locations – including exterior stairways. A clarification was added that allows an I-ADU to be created by or
within a new addition, which wasn’t explicitly stated and clarifies that an I-ADU can be above an attached
garage, as required by State Code.

PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
To approve the proposed ordinance amendments to Bluffdale City Code sections 11.20.020 (Definitions) and
11.340 (Accessory Dwelling Units) to update the standards related to internal and detached accessory
dwelling units, as recommended by the Planning Commission on April 12, 2023, based on the following
findings and recommendations:

    1. That the proposed amendment furthers options for housing in the community as contemplated in the
       City’s adopted General Plan and Moderate Income Housing Plan.
    2. That the regulations proposed balance property rights and community interests.
    3. That the ordinance provides a path for property owners to legalize any currently non-compliant
       detached accessory dwelling units.
    4. That allowing accessory dwelling units will increase safety through compliance with adopted building
1
       codes.
    5. That minimum lot size standards for detached accessory dwelling units are removed from the ordinance
       draft.
    6. That design standards for detached accessory dwelling units are removed from the ordinance draft.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
         • Proposed Ordinance 2023-08, with ordinance attachment




2
                                       ORDINANCE NO. 2023-08

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING BLUFFDALE
CITY CODE SECTIONS 11.20.020 (DEFINITIONS) AND 11.340 (ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS)
UPDATING THE STANDARDS RELATED TO ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

        WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or appropriate
for the use and development of land within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the subject text amendment modifies the regulations for the placement of
internal and detached accessory dwelling units to increase flexibility and safety in the City’s housing
stock; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held public hearings and gave the City Council its
recommendation; and

        WHEREAS, after holding a public hearing and reviewing the subject text amendment, the
City Council finds that the subject text amendment will not negatively impact public health, safety,
and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as follows:

                                              See Exhibit A

        SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date.      This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS 24th DAY OF
May, 2023, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                         YES     NO       ABSTAIN         ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas




                                                                                                   Page 1 of 3
Mayor:                     Attest:
         Natalie C. Hall             City Recorder




                                                     Page 2 of 3
Exhibit A –Accessory Dwelling Ordinance Amendments




                                                     Page 3 of 3
Exhibit A –
Text Amendments to Accessory Dwelling Unit Land Use Regulations found in Bluffdale City Code

…

11.20.020 Definitions
Add New Definitions:
…

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A habitable living unit added to, created within, or detached from
a primary dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental or
occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED (D-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit, located in a permanent
structure with a permanent foundation, detached from a primary dwelling for the purpose of offering
a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL (I-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit created:
        A. Within a primary dwelling;
         B. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
is created; and
        C. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days
or longer.
HABITABLE SPACE: A space in a building for living, sleeping, eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet
rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
PRIMARY DWELLING: A single family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary
residence of the owner of record.
…

UPDATE EXISTING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE FOR ALL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
(repeal and replace existing 11.340 Accessory Dwelling Unit Code in its entirety as follows)

11.340 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
11.340.010 Purpose
11.340.020 Scope
11.340.030 Approval Process
11.340.040 General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards
11.340.050 D-ADU Development Standards
11.340.060 I-ADU Standards
11.340.070 Recorded Notice
11.340.080 Nonconforming Units
11.340.090 Violations



                                                   1
11.340.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter and any rules, regulations, standards, and specifications adopted pursuant
hereto are to:

    A. Permit property owners within certain residential zones to establish an accessory dwelling unit
       (ADU) within a single-family dwelling or accessory building subject to regulations set forth
       herein.
    B. Accommodate such housing in certain single-family residential zones with minimal impacts on
       the neighborhood in terms of traffic, noise, parking, congestion and compatible scale and
       appearance of residential buildings.
    C. Prevent the proliferation of rental dwellings, absentee ownership, property disinvestment,
       Building Code violations and associated decline in quality of single-family residential zones.
    D. Set forth standardized terms and standards for accessory dwelling units and procedures for
       review and approval of the same.

11.340.020 Scope

The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all ADUs within the City.

    A. Internal ADUs (I-ADUs) shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts, mixed
       use zones, and special district zones within single family dwellings on parcels greater than 6,000
       square feet.
    B. Detached ADUs (D-ADUs) shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts,
       mixed use zones, and special district zones on individual lots or parcels that contain no more
       than one single-family dwelling.

11.340.030 Approval Process

    A. All property owners desiring to establish an ADU must apply for, and obtain, approval prior to
       utilizing the accessory dwelling unit, using forms provided by the Planning Department.
    B. An ADU shall not be rented, leased, or occupied or offered for rent, lease or occupancy unless
       the owner of record possesses a valid ADU permit.
    C. Applications for ADUs shall be reviewed and approved by the designated Land Use Authority in
       accordance with subsection 11.030.090(I) of this title. The applicant and/or any person
       adversely affected by a decision of the Land Use Authority regarding the proposed ADU may
       appeal such decision to the Appeal Authority, as designated in subsection 11.030.090(I)of this
       title, by filing written notice of appeal with the Planning Department within ten (10) calendar
       days from the date of such decision.
    D. An ADU Permit issued by the Land Use Authority shall be required for the development and use
       of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and standards of this chapter as
       applicable to the specific type of ADU are met.
    E. Building Permit Required. All applicants for ADU approval shall obtain a building permit for
       construction or inspection associated with the proposed ADU, regardless of timing and
       method of creation or whether a non-permitted ADU has previously completed construction.
       No ADU permit and/or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for an ADU until all associated
       construction is complete and inspected pursuant to applicable building codes.


                                                   2
   F. Statement of Owner Occupancy. An application for an ADU shall include documentation, using
      forms provided by the Planning Department, that demonstrates an owner occupant resides in
      the primary dwelling or the ADU on the property pursuant to subsection 11.340.040(I).


11.340.040 General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards
The following standards and conditions shall apply to all accessory dwelling units:

   A. Location: An I-ADU must be enclosed within the primary dwelling.
   B. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not permitted
      within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
   C. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
   D. ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit or on a parcel serviced by a failing
      septic system.
   E. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.
   F. An I-ADU or D-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive
      days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one time.
   G. Size: The ADU shall be accessory and subordinate to the primary dwelling.
          a. Accessory and subordinate requires the ADU to be no more than fifty percent (50%) of
              the total square footage of all floors of the primary dwelling, as shown on Salt Lake
              County Assessor’s Office records, not including any attached garage floor space.
          b. Habitable space, as defined in this chapter, shall be used to calculate the allowed
              square footage for an ADU.
   H. The primary dwelling associated with any ADU shall be occupied by the owner of record as their
      primary residence and shall not be separately rented or offered for rent. If the primary dwelling
      associated with the ADU ceases to be occupied by the owner of record, the ADU shall not be
      rented, leased, hired, occupied, or loaned. Owner occupancy of the primary dwelling shall not
      be required when:
          a. The owner has a bona fide, temporary absence of three years or less for activities such
              as military service, temporary job assignments, sabbaticals, or voluntary service
              (indefinite periods of absence from the dwelling shall not qualify for this exception); or
          b. The owner is placed in a hospital, nursing home, assisted living facility or other similar
              facility that provides regular medical care, excluding retirement living facilities or
              communities;
          c. For up to 90 days when the property is changing ownership; or
          d. The owner lives in an approved ADU.
   I. Number: A maximum of one ADU shall be allowed per parcel which contains a primary dwelling.
      ADUs shall contain no more than one dwelling unit.
   J. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition of approval
      for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to waive any right to create an I-ADU on the
      same property unless the D-ADU is first removed from the property. This condition shall be
      included in the recorded notice of accessory dwelling unit required by section 11.340.070 of this
      chapter.
   K. Parking: At least one (1) off-street parking stall shall be constructed for an I-ADU. A minimum
      of two (2) off-street parking spaces shall be constructed for a D-ADU. Parking stalls for ADUs
      shall be constructed of an all-weather surface rolled and compacted road base, asphalt, or


                                                   3
       concrete surface which meet the dimensional requirements of Chapter 11.120 of this Title.
       Such parking stalls shall be in addition to all off-street parking requirements for the primary
       dwelling on the lot and be reserved for exclusive use by occupants of the approved ADU. The
       parking stalls for the ADU shall be located behind the front plane of the dwelling and shall not
       impede or prevent access to the primary dwelling's required parking. The parking stall may be
       in a garage only if the stall is in addition to the required number of parking spaces for the
       primary dwelling and is not a tandem parking stall. Driveways must conform to all applicable
       building and fire code requirements and adopted standards. See Figure 1 for illustration of
       permissible parking locations for ADUs.
    L. All ADUs shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in effect at the time
       the ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled. The owner of record shall be
       responsible to ensure that all required building permits and other permits are obtained for the
       creation of an ADU.
    M. ADUs that have been previously completed before July 1, 2023, and cannot be shown to have
       complied with building permit and inspection requirements for an ADU in effect at the time of
       their construction shall comply with the requirements of the International Existing Building
       Code and other applicable adopted building and fire codes and shall comply with all permit
       procedures and requirements of the City.
    N. Number of Residents. The total number of residents that reside in an ADU may not exceed the
       number allowed for a “family” for the lot on which the accessory dwelling unit is found, as
       defined in BCC 11.20.
    O. Home Occupations. Home occupations may be conducted in an ADU as allowed per Title 3 of
       the BCC. Standards for home occupations and associated impacts shall be calculated on a
       total per parcel basis, not per ADU.
    P. Addressing. Separate addressing and mailboxes for ADUs are not allowed.
    R. Continuing Use: Approval of an ADU shall run with the land if it complies with all adopted
       requirements.

11.340.050: D-ADU Development Standards:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:
A. Separate Structure: A D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary dwelling contained on the
same lot or parcel as the primary dwelling.
B. Conditions: A D-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 11.340.040 of this
Title and all the following conditions:
        1. Only one D-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
         2. A D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for an accessory building in the zoning
district in which the lot or parcel is located. Regardless of size, a D-ADU cannot be created within a
building or structure which has utilized the reduced side and rear setbacks allowed for small
accessory buildings or structures found in BCC 11.160.260. All structures shall also comply with the
maximum lot coverage percentages for the zone in which it resides.
        3. A D-ADU shall be located within the rear or side yard area of the lot or parcel and is
prohibited within the front yard area.


                                                    4
        4. The habitable square footage of a D-ADU shall be 400 square feet or greater in size.
       5. A D-ADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes in effect at the time the
D-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled, including obtaining the required building
and other permits.
        6. D-ADUs shall be a permanent structure anchored to a foundation which meets the adopted
building codes. Trailers, mobile homes, tiny homes with wheels, and other portable or temporary
structures, or structures with wheels shall not be permitted as a D-ADU.
       7. Exterior lighting shall provide illumination directed downward. Light source shall be
shielded and not be visible from adjacent properties.
        8. Windows on a façade, located within 20 feet of an adjacent property containing a single
family or townhome residence, shall be translucent or installed as a skylight.
       9. Exterior stairways and landings shall not encroach within 20 feet of an adjacent property
containing a single family or townhome residence.
       10. Balconies on a D-ADU shall be located on the interior side of the lot and building, not
adjacent to a rear or side yard shared with a neighboring residence, and:
        a. Shall not exceed 80 square feet in size when located above the ground level of the building;
        b. Shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from a side or rear yard lot line unless the applicable
        side or rear yard lot line is adjacent to an alley;
        c. Rooftop decks or second-story decks are prohibited on an accessory structure used as a D-
       ADU.
       11. The height of a D-ADU shall conform to the height limit specified for accessory buildings in
the zoning district in which it is located.
       12. A second kitchen in a D-ADU is not allowed.
       13. Entrance Locations. The entrance to a D-ADU shall be located:

       a. Facing an alley, public street, rear or side façade of the primary dwelling, or rear yard of the
single-family dwelling on the same property.

       b. Facing a side or rear property line provided the entrance is located a minimum of 10 feet
from the side or rear property line if at ground level or first story level or 20 feet from side or rear
property line if above the first story.

       c. Exterior stairs leading to an entrance shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from a side or
rear property line.




                                                     5
       FIGURE 1 PERMISSIBLE ADU PARKING LOCATIONS




11.34.060: I-ADU Development Standards:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each I-ADU in addition to the
general standards for all ADUs found in 11.340.040:
A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the footprint of the primary dwelling, which
can also be above an attached garage. The existence of a second kitchen within the primary dwelling's
footprint does not, by itself, qualify a living space as an I-ADU. An existing second kitchen located
within a primary dwelling can be converted to an I-ADU as part of an application for the creation of an
I-ADU in compliance with all other standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.



                                                   6
B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter and with all the
following conditions:
1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
2. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary dwelling, the parking
spaces contained within the garage or carport that are removed shall be replaced in accordance with
adopted parking and access standards.
3. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health, and fire codes in effect at the time the
I-ADU is constructed, created, or subsequently remodeled. The owner of record shall be responsible to
ensure that all required building permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.

4. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the primary dwelling may
not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter the appearance of the primary dwelling from
that of a single-family dwelling.
5. Design And Character: I-ADUs shall retain the compatibility of the primary dwelling with the
residential character of the neighborhood. I-ADUs shall include materials comparable to those used on
and within the primary dwelling.
6. Ownership: The single-family dwelling and the I-ADU shall remain in single ownership and either
the single-family dwelling or the I-ADU shall be owner occupied in accordance with 11.340.040.
7. Entrance Locations. Entrances to an I-ADU shall only be permitted in the following locations:

        a. An existing entrance to the single-family dwelling;
        b. Exterior stairs on lots other than a corner lot, leading to an entrance above or below the first
        level of the principal structure, may be located on a side or rear elevation of a building;
        c. Located on the rear facade of the dwelling.

11.340.070 Recorded Notice


A. As part of the ADU permit process, the owner of the property shall execute a “notice
of accessory dwelling unit” affidavit. The City shall record the notice with the County Recorder as a
use condition on the property. The notice shall be in a form approved by the Bluffdale City Attorney.
Once recorded, a copy of the notice shall be delivered to the owner of record.
B. The notice of accessory dwelling unit shall include:
        1. A legal description and address of the property; and
        2. Either of the following statements as applicable to the type of ADU permit being issued:
                a. The primary dwelling contains an approved I-ADU and that the I-ADU may only be
        used in accordance with the land use regulations of the City of Bluffdale; or
               b. The property has an approved D-ADU and that the D-ADU may only be used in
        accordance with the land use regulations of the City of Bluffdale.




                                                    7
11.340.080: Nonconforming Units:
A. ADUs legally established prior to July 1, 2023, may continue to operate under the applicable
provisions in effect at the time they were approved and established in accordance with this chapter of
the BCC. Provided, however, legal nonconforming ADUs shall obtain and maintain an ADU permit
under the procedures of section 11.340.030.
B. ADUs converted from existing accessory buildings that were completed before July 1, 2023, do not
have to modify existing entrance locations – including exterior stairways - if all applicable building and
fire codes are met.
11.340.090 Violations
Violations of this chapter shall be enforced consistent with this title and Utah state code and may
include fines and liens.
A. Notice of Violation:
        1. Whenever an owner of record has violated any of the provisions of this chapter the City
shall provide a written notice of violation. The notice of violation shall:
                a. Describe the violation;
                b. Provide the owner of record an opportunity to cure or correct the violation that is:
                        (1) Not less than fourteen (14) days after the notice of violation is issued, for
                violations of BCC 11.340.040(G);
                        (2) Not less than thirty (30) days after the notice of violation is issued for any
                other violation;
                c. Include a statement that if the owner of record fails to cure the violation within the
        given time period that they may be subject to daily fines, liens, the revocation of permits or
        approvals, criminal prosecution, and other enforcement actions permitted by applicable law;
                d. Provide notification to the owner of record that they may file a written objection to
        the violation within fourteen (14) days after the day on which the written notice of violation is
        post-marked or posted on the property;
                e. Indicate the department name and address where the owner of record may file the
        written objection;
                f. Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to receive
        notice in the owner's license or permit records, and a copy shall be posted on the property.
        2. If an owner of record files a written objection to the written notice of violation in
accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-530(5), as amended, the Zoning Administrator shall provide notice,
hold a hearing, and conduct a review to determine whether the violation described in the written
notice of violation has occurred. If the Zoning Administrator determines that the violation in the
notice of violation has occurred, the city may impose any of the remedies listed in this section or
others as permitted by applicable law.



                                                     8
        3. If an owner of record does not file a written objection to the notice of violation and does
not cure the violation within the time period provided in the notice, the city may impose any of the
remedies listed in this section or others as permitted by applicable law.
        4. If an owner of record cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the notice of
violation, or if the Zoning Administrator finds that the violation listed in the notice of violation has not
occurred, the city may not impose sanctions.
B. Liens:
        1. Notice of lien:
                a. A written notice of lien issued under this section shall:
                         (1) Comply with the requirements of Utah Code 38-12-102 as amended;
                         (2) State that the property is subject to a lien;
                       (3) Specify the lien amount for each day of violation after the day on which
                the opportunity to cure the violation expired; and
                        (4) Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to
                receive notice in the owner's license or permit records, and a copy of the notice shall
                be posted on the property.
                b. Each notice of lien shall be recorded with the respective county recorder.
C. Remedies:
        1. Revocation.
               a. In addition to cases of an uncured violation as set forth above, an ADU permit may
        be revoked if the Zoning Administrator determines:
                         (1) The permit was procured by false representation; or
                         (2) The permit was issued by mistake.
               b. After the written notice of revocation is served no further construction for an ADU
        may continue until a new permit is issued, or the permit is reinstated by the Zoning
        Administrator.
               c. If the permit was issued by mistake, the city shall notify the owner of record of the
        mistake and the actions or changes that must be made to bring the ADU into compliance with
        applicable requirements and ordinances.
               d. For properties where a permit has been revoked for any reason other than a
        mistake, a new or reinstated ADU permit may not be issued except in conformance with
        applicable ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and requirements.
                e. Properties for which an ADU permit has been revoked may be subject to the
        recordation of a notice of non-compliance against the property and shall be prohibited from
        renting, leasing, hiring or loaning the accessory dwelling unit.


                                                     9
2. The city shall have such other remedies as are and may be from time to time provided by Utah law
or city ordinance for the violation of any provision of this title.
3. All remedies pertaining to violations of this chapter are cumulative.




                                                   10
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                    MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Present:
 2
 3   City Council:
 4                    Mayor Natalie Hall
 5                    Council Member Aston
 6                    Council Member Crockett
 7                    Council Member Hales
 8                    Council Member Kallas
 9
10   Staff:           Mark Reid, City Manager
11                    Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director
12                    James Dunkelberger, City Attorney
13                    Stephanie Thayer, Finance Manager
14                    Addison Mitton, Assistant City Engineer
15                    Ellen Oakman, Associate City Planner
16                    Jennifer Robison, Senior City Planner
17                    Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director
18                    Matt Evans, Fire Chief
19                    Shane Paddock, Public Works Director
20                    Courtney Peterson, AV Technician
21                    Amanda Luker, Communications Specialist
22                    Tami Timothy, Deputy City Recorder
23                    Andrew Burton, Police Chief
24
25   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING
26
27   1.       Call to Order.
28
29   Mayor Hall called the meeting order at 5:00 p.m.
30
31   All members of the City Council were present with the exception of Jeff Gaston, who was excused.
32
33   Public Works Director, Shane Paddock, offered the Invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
34
35   2.       Minutes and Agenda Approval.
36
37            2.1     January 25, 2023, City Council, Planning Commission, LBA, and RDA
38                    Combined Meeting Minutes.
39
40            2.2     February 8, 2023, City Council Meeting Minutes.
41



                                                    1
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                    MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1            2.3     Approval of this Meetings Agenda.
 2
 3   Council Member Hales moved to APPROVE the agenda and minutes. The motion was
 4   seconded by Council Member Crockett. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of
 5   the Council.
 6
 7   3.       Mayor and Council Reports.
 8
 9   Mayor Hall reported on the following:
10
11           Bluffdale Elementary recently held its Annual Fifth Grade Congressional Hearing at City
12            Hall. The students work all year learning about the Constitution and how to discuss it and
13            the country. They work in teams with judges consisting of the Mayor and a City Police
14            Officer. They were able to listen to the students and give feedback and score them. The
15            winning team was Hamilton.
16           A four-week Children’s Entrepreneur Class got underway in anticipation of the Children’s
17            Market scheduled for August 12. 70 children participated. The entire room was filled
18            without chaos. The first course is completed and the second course takes place this week.
19            There were a lot of great business plans and products.
20           Mayor Hall had the opportunity to attend the Utah League of Cities and Towns’ (“ULCT”)
21            Mid-Year Conference along with mayors and councils from other cities and towns to hear
22            about legislation that affects our City, attend breakout sessions to work with other mayors
23            and council members. They were able to attend keynote speeches and tour facilities in St.
24            George pertaining to homelessness and other interesting community programs. These
25            conferences provide ideas that can be implemented in the City.
26           The Mayor visited Riverton Intermountain Hospital, which has a Conference Room named
27            after Bluffdale. There is an educational outreach public service effort to respond to an
28            uptick in children falling out of second-story or above windows. They recommend that
29            windows only be open a maximum of four inches and have a lock. They also suggested
30            that furniture never be placed beneath a window. They indicated that screens keep bugs



                                                       2
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1            out but not children in. It was reported that one in five children who fall out of windows
 2            suffer traumatic brain injuries requiring treatment in the Intensive Care Unit (“ICU”).
 3           The Mayor had the opportunity to read a book at several schools for Library Week.
 4           Earlier in the day the Mountain West Chamber of Commerce held an Annual Teacher
 5            Appreciation Luncheon. The winning teacher received various gifts and felt appreciated
 6            for their work.
 7           The Mayor has been visiting various City businesses including the Discovery Preschool
 8            and Mad Spark Coatings.
 9           Tickets for the Rodeo go on sale at the end of May.
10
11   4.       Public Comment.
12
13   Emily Britt was present representing her friend and colleague Camille Hawkins, who was ill.
14   Ms. Hawkins and her husband are under contract to purchase the home on a 2.4-acre property
15   located at 1920 West Rock Hollow Road. They have been looking for a property where they can
16   have a mini-wellness retreat ranch to help others rejuvenate with healing. They would like a calm,
17   quiet residential space with land to garden and keep a few farm animals, which is ideal for wellness
18   and retreat space because of the tranquil and calm environment and overall general well-being.
19   They have looked at various commercial spaces but have not found anything as quiet, calm, and
20   accessible as this property.
21
22   Mrs. Hawkins is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker who has been recognized by Utah Business
23   Magazine and Utah State University for her non-profit and community work. Her private wellness
24   practice, Chapters and Seasons, has counseling offices in Draper and Salt Lake City. The proposed
25   Bluffdale Wellness Ranch location will offer occasional community yoga classes in an auxiliary
26   barn, small day retreats for corporate teams, and wellness support groups for various topics
27   including pregnancy and infant loss. This is Mrs. Hawkins’ focus area after losing her daughter to
28   stillbirth and facing infertility for over a decade. They were encouraged by City Planner/Economic
29   Development Director, Grant Crowell to get general feedback from the City Council.



                                                       3
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

1
2    Ms. Britt reported that the current General Plan home limit allows for six clients per day or three
3    at a time. Special exceptions allow for 12 clients per day or six at a time. She explained that
4    research shows that the ideal number of clients for support groups is eight to 10 people. The ideal
5    number for wellness retreats is 14 to 16 because of the connection and validation that comes with
6    being with others and sharing in a safe, supportive environment. They want to offer yoga classes
 7   and one-on-one wellness services two to four days per week. One to two days per week they plan
 8   to offer wellness day retreats. All providers are licensed and certified in their areas of expertise.
 9   They believe that this peaceful wellness farm will align well with the goals and vision of the
10   Healthy Bluffdale Coalition.     They do not want to cause any disruption in this peaceful
11   neighborhood but enhance it and support the community in Bluffdale and surrounding areas.
12
13   Angela Van Wagoner and Mrs. Hawkins have a history of working with others and building
14   positive relationships in the community. Ms. Van Wagoner has also renovated a historic home in
15   Texas in a residential area. They have a rough sketch of the parking and traffic plan. The property
16   is 2.4 acres in size, which provides ample space for parking behind the main home. Due to the
17   nature of their work, people will not be coming and going at high frequencies. Ms. Britt distributed
18   a basic Business Plan and their contact information.
19
20   There were no further public comments. The public comment period was closed.
21
22   5.     Presentation Items.
23
24          5.1     Recognition of the Students from Bluffdale Elementary School as the
25                  Recipients of the Bluffdale Exemplary Student Award (Presenter, Mayor Hall).
26
27   Mayor Hall presented the winners of the Bluffdale Exemplary Student Awards.
28
29   Logan was identified as the winner from Ms. Fisher’s Fifth Grade Class. Ms. Fisher wrote that
30   Logan always thinks of others, treats everyone with respect, and is the first person to volunteer to
31   help with anything. He is honest, hard-working, and has the best sense of humor. He presented




                                                      4
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   and shared his opinion confidently and was well-prepared at the class's Congressional Hearing.
 2   He shows compassion to those in need and is a light for everyone.
 3
 4   Tate was the winner from Ms. Ogden’s Fourth Grade Class. Ms. Ogden wrote that he is an
 5   exemplary student who completes all his work assignments on time and is a leader that other
 6   students look to as an example. He is hard-working, respectful, and fun to work with.
 7
 8   Eudora was the winner from Ms. Mueller’s Third Grade Class. Ms. Mueller wrote that she always
 9   follows classroom and school rules. She works hard and has made progress with her multiplication
10   facts. She is kind and respectful to friends and teachers. She is a joy to have in class.
11
12   Wyatt was the winner from Ms. Robbins’s Fourth Grade Class. Ms. Robbins wrote that he is an
13   exceptional student who was described as hard-working, accepting, and willing to try. He has
14   always been accepting of anyone different, and another student with autism has described Wyatt
15   as his best friend. Wyatt always defends him. Wyatt includes those around him to play and
16   participate. He accepts all students for who they are and where they are, regardless of what others
17   think. He is the epitome of inclusion and tolerance.
18
19   Canyon was identified as the winner from Ms. Watson’s Second Grade Class. Ms. Watson wrote
20   that Canyon is kind, a hard worker, respectful, and always maintains a positive attitude in school.
21   He seldom has to be reminded to stay on task and has made amazing academic growth this school
22   year in reading.
23
24   Mayor Hall congratulated all of the recipients. Photos were taken with the City Council.
25
26   6.     Consent Agenda.
27
28          6.1     Resolution No. 2023-12 – Authorizing the Master Agreement with UDOT for
29                  the SR-85; MVC Freeway, Porter Rockwell to 2100 North Project.
30
31   Council Member Kallas moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 2023-12. Council Member
32   Aston seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Council Member Aston-Aye, Council Member



                                                      5
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                               AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                    MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Kallas-Aye, Council Member Crockett-Aye, Council Member Hales-Aye. The motion passed
 2   unanimously.
 3
 4   7.       Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from Previous Meeting.
 5
 6            7.1      Resolution No. 2023-16 – Proclaiming April 28, 2023, as Arbor Day in the City
 7                     of Bluffdale. (Staff Presenter, Shane Paddock).
 8
 9   Mr. Paddock shared a letter from the Arbor Day Foundation detailing the requirements for Tree
10   City USA recognition, which Bluffdale has fulfilled. The requirements include maintaining a Tree
11   Board or Department, having a Tree Care Ordinance, dedicating an Annual Community Forestry
12   Budget of at least $2 per capita, and hosting an Arbor Day Observance and Proclamation.
13   Mr. Paddock stated that the observation will take place during the Love Where You Live event in
14   Independence in May. The Arbor Day Foundation also sent a letter to Mayor Hall congratulating
15   Bluffdale on being a community that makes the planting and care of trees a priority. Bluffdale
16   joins a network of more than 3,600 Tree City USA communities nationwide with a combined
17   population of 155,000,000. The letter states that the value and importance of trees has become
18   increasingly clear as cities and towns across the globe face issues with air quality, water resources,
19   personal health and well-being, and energy use. Bluffdale has taken steps to create a brighter,
20   greener future.
21
22   Mr. Paddock shared the following regarding tree-related initiatives taking place this year:
23
24           Approximately $27,627 was spent on tree planting including parks and the remodel of
25            Porter Rockwell.
26           Tree maintenance included approximately $15,000. 125 trees were planted and 850 trees
27            were pruned throughout the year, along with robust fertilization this month.
28
29   Bluffdale was proud to participate and be a member of Tree City USA. Mayor Hall thanked staff
30   for their work and the years of planning required to be recognized as a Tree City.
31



                                                       6
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Council Member Hales moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 2023-16 Proclaiming April 28,
 2   2023, as Arbor Day in the City of Bluffdale. Council Member Kallas seconded the motion.
 3   Vote on motion: Council Member Kallas-Aye, Council Member Crockett-Aye, Council
 4   Member Hales-Aye, Council Member Aston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
 5
 6          7.2     Resolution No. 2023-17 – All West Communications Franchise Agreement
 7                  (James Dunkelberger).
 8
 9   City Attorney, James Dunkelberger reviewed the Franchise Agreement and stated that the only
10   change to the current iteration was going from a 30-year term to a 20-year term. The specific terms
11   of the agreement were presented previously.
12
13   Administrative Services Director, Bruce Kartchner presented renderings of what can be expected
14   while construction is underway and the final product. They spoke extensively with staff regarding
15   the plans and layout and are very organized. They like to be in and out of any given area withing
16   four days from breaking ground to putting flowable fill into potholes they may have created. He
17   provided a rendering of a horizontal boring machine they use. In areas where they were, they come
18   up through the soil, they make sure that any of the spoils they pull out are put onto tarps and kept
19   off the street and avoid creating a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (“SWPPP”) issue. He
20   showed a vac truck they use for potholing. When they are done a flowerbox unit connects the fiber
21   optic lines to homes. They restore all landscaping to what it looked like before.
22
23   City Manager, Mark Reid, stated that whenever they need to cross the road they bore underneath.
24   Council Member Kallas asked if the boxes will be in front yards. Mr. Kartchner responded that
25   they can be placed anywhere in the public right-of-way, but they work with the cities to determine
26   where an appropriate location may be. The City Engineers will work with them to identify
27   unobtrusive areas.
28
29   Council Member Kallas asked Mr. Kartchner if he was confident in the due diligence performed.
30   Mr. Kartchner found All West to be very structured and organized and considered them to be a



                                                      7
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                 BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                            AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   great company coming in to provide a wonderful service to the entire city. He noted that there are
 2   places in the City currently that do not have good high-speed Internet connections. The plan shows
 3   All West’s high-level plans, where their connections will be, and introduced their team.
 4   Mr. Kartchner expected it to be a great partnership with a vendor that will provide a great service
 5   for their citizens as well as franchise revenue for the City.
 6
 7   Council Member Kallas brought up the fact that during their presentation they laid out a timeline
 8   of 18 months to two years to build out. The contract, however, specifies that it needs to be 90%
 9   built out by 2027, which is slightly different. Mr. Kartchner explained that it will happen more
10   quickly than that according to their description of their plans. City Engineer, Michael Fazio, was
11   comfortable with that timeframe in terms of how extensive the infrastructure will be. Staff did not
12   view it as problematic. Mr. Reid pointed out there are roads that will need to come in later with
13   new subdivisions. All West is committed to bringing those in.
14
15   Council Member Kallas wanted to make sure they can characterize this accurately to the public.
16   He did not want to commit to the project being completed in 18 months when it could take up to
17   three or four years. Mr. Dunkelberger stated that the contract can be approved today with the
18   condition that the timeframe be changed. Council Member Kallas understood that there may be
19   material or labor issues but he wanted to point out that the timeline is different in the contract than
20   expected. Mr. Dunkelberger stated that they anticipate laying 20,000 feet of fiber per week. If of
21   concern, those specific can be addressed in the motion.
22
23   Mr. Dunkelberger reported that he has been involved since August and this is the third high-speed
24   Internet Franchise Agreement. This company has been the most motivated and willing to work
25   with Bluffdale and adjust their agreement to address concerns. Council Member Kallas reiterated
26   that he does not have a problem with the date in the contract but wanted to make sure it is clearly
27   understood. He noted that he has colleagues that work with the Rural Telecom Association and
28   they all had positive things to say about All West Communications.
29



                                                       8
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Mayor Hall welcomed Phil Marchant from All West Communications to address the Council.
 2   Mr. Marchant stated that after attending various city meetings elsewhere, there is a special feeling
 3   in Bluffdale City. He lives in Kamas, Utah, where All West Communications is based. They serve
 4   Utah and Southwest Wyoming as an Internet Service Provider (“ISP”) and full-service telecom.
 5   The company is founded on hard work. Most of the company founders grew up on farms and
 6   know what it means to negotiate and honor people’s wishes.
 7
 8   The contract has a cushion for unforeseen circumstances such as the winter we just experienced,
 9   which can slow down construction. They want to start right away as soon as mid-summer when
10   the design is ready and complete the work within 18 months. The network will also cover
11   Herriman City. They hired Bart Jackson Construction who is familiar with Bluffdale City. They
12   have a similar mindset and are hardworking, communicate well, and work closely with cities and
13   counties. They hold a weekly Coordination Meeting as well to make sure they are on the same
14   page. Mr. Marchant stated that they do not want a lot of calls coming into the City. They will
15   place door hangers in areas they plan to be for customers to call an 800 number.
16
17   Council Member Kallas remarked that would not want a box in his front yard and asked how that
18   will be handled. Mr. Marchant explained that the cabinet is a Digital-Subscriber-Line-Access-
19   Multiplexer (“DSLAM”).       He stated that fiber optics carries data over light and the DSLAM
20   cabinets regenerate the light to prevent throttling of the light speed.        Each cabinet serves
21   approximately 400 homes so there won't be many. Homes will have a ground flower box, with a
22   splice box inside the ground vault going to each home. Each flower box will serve one to four
23   homes depending on proximity. He estimated that there will only be three or four DSLAMs
24   throughout the City.
25
26   Council Member Kallas read a news story regarding frustrations stemming from a network
27   installation by another provider concerning a dedicated lot the city owns for a utility substation
28   related to the fiberoptic network. He asked if the shed-like structures they have already shown
29   would be the extent of the infrastructure or if they needed a utility substation. Mr. Marchant stated



                                                      9
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   that in this network, which will include Herriman and Bluffdale, they will need one CO shed in
 2   Herriman City or Bluffdale. They contain a generator and battery backup that the fiber comes
 3   through.
 4
 5   Mayor Hall thanked Mr. Marchant for coming. She asked that he work with the City’s Public
 6   Information Officer (“PIO”) to come up with a press release.
7
8    Council Member Crockett moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 2023-17. Council Member
 9   Hales seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Council Member Crockett-Aye, Council
10   Member Hales-Aye, Council Member Aston-Aye, Council Member Kallas-Aye. The motion
11   passed unanimously.
12
13   8.     Public Hearing Items.
14
15          8.1     Resolution No. 2023-18 – Adopting the Tentative Budget for the 2023-2024
16                  Fiscal Year and Establishing the Time and Place for the Public Hearing on the
17                  Final Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. (Staff Presenters, Stephanie
18                  Thayer and Bruce Kartchner). [LBA and RDA Public Hearing held in
19                  conjunction with the Budget Hearing.]
20
21   Mr. Kartchner gave an overview of the budget process. He reported that the City keeps its books
22   in fund accounting, unlike a business. The City is required to approve a Tentative Budget once a
23   year by the first meeting in May. They always attempt to do it sometime in April to allow the
24   Council more time. The Tentative Budget is just that, a tentative starting point. They will go into
25   it in more detail over the next several weeks going into more detail and listen to Council feedback.
26   The budget that will hopefully be passed tonight will differ from the Final Budget that needs to be
27   passed by June 22 according to state law. It was, however, that the Council pass it on June 14
28   since the June 28 meeting will be after the deadline.
29
30   Mr. Kartchner stated that if the Council requests a property tax increase as part of the budget, an
31   additional hearing will need to occur in August called a Truth in Taxation Hearing. Due to a new
32   fund being set up, this will be part of the proposed budget.



                                                     10
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                 BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                            AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1
 2   Once the budget is passed for a fiscal year, the Council can amend that budget as many times as
 3   they want. They typically look at finances around February and revenues and expense trends and
 4   recommend budget adjustments at that time. The current budget does not address what the future
 5   will bring. It includes estimates and projections of what expectations are but nothing ever happens
 6   exactly like the projections.   Additional budget adjustments in the future are necessary to
 7   accommodate any nuances to the economy or requirements of the City between now and then.
 8
 9   The initial budget creation begins by providing all the budget heads with a detail of what they have
10   budgeted in the past and what their current expenditures are. The department heads are asked to
11   go through their department budgets in detail and identify what changes they may see that they
12   need for the upcoming year. This includes reductions and increases for a variety of things. Once
13   that is prepared, it is passed over to himself and Finance Manager, Stephanie Thayer to incorporate
14   the other calculations.
15
16   They have found during this process that a significant area is the Capital Projects Fund, which is
17   primarily managed by the Engineering Department and includes street renovations, new water
18   tanks, or infrastructure projects. Those big-ticket items frequently take more than a single year to
19   accomplish, and even when they are shorter-term, they will often cover multiple fiscal years.
20   Because of how fund accounting works they need to budget the expenditures for the year they're
21   expected but sometimes they do not know exactly which year a project will be completed. As a
22   result, they budget additional funding in the succeeding year to finish the project. This leads to
23   the same dollars being budgeted in two separate fiscal years. He urged the Council to remember
24   that they only spend those monies once even when they are incorporated into two different years.
25
26   One thing staff finds particularly challenging is projecting revenue. Mr. Kartchner explained that
27   revenue is part science, part art, part philosophy, and part luck. Historically, they have done a
28   pretty good job of estimating and projecting what revenues will be, however, one area they have
29   not done a great job with over the last several years is sales taxes. They have been higher than
30   estimated because people are spending more on Amazon, which benefits the City.


                                                     11
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1
 2   Mr. Kartchner explained that revenues are impacted by decision events that are frequently outside
 3   of the City’s control. Positive or negative changes in the economy impact revenue. If a major
 4   developer comes in and develops a large housing project impacts revenue. They do not have any
 5   control over how that is going to happen.
 6
 7   Mr. Kartchner presented a slide showing the different types of funds the City uses and budgets for
 8   each year. The General Fund is unrestricted with a variety of revenue sources with various levels
 9   of predictability. One of them is property taxes. Property taxes are the most stable revenue source
10   the City has. Because of the way the State calculates the Certified Tax Rate, property taxes stay
11   the same year-to-year in dollars. The only increase that occurs is due to growth. Because the
12   dollars remain the same for the City, the percentage will change each year. If property values go
13   up, the percentage drops so the dollars stay the same. This can be confusing. He invited those
14   with questions to contact him with questions.
15
16   Other revenues include various other taxes such as sales taxes for which the City receives a share.
17   The City also receives fees such as garbage and street lighting fees.
18
19   Mr. Kartchner reported that the Capital Projects Fund is unrestricted as the money is identified for
20   specific projects or is excess money from the General Fund at the end of each year. They use this
21   fund to purchase large equipment items and for a variety of non-water-related infrastructure.
22
23   The Roads Fund is a restricted fund. It is used when the City receives its share of the State Fuel
24   Tax, which can only be used for road maintenance.
25
26   New development has an impact on the City, which strains infrastructure. The State allows them
27   to charge an impact fee so incoming developers have to pay their fair share of the additional
28   infrastructure needed to meet the needs of their additional development. Impact fees go toward
29   parks, transportation, water, and other projects but they can only be used for those projects. They
30   must be new projects needed for new development and not to cover existing needs.



                                                     12
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1
 2   There are a couple of specific Redevelopment Agency (“RDA”) areas primarily on the east side of
 3   the City. In the early 2000s, those redevelopment areas created an agreement with the State, other
 4   tax-collecting agencies, and sometimes with specific individuals and companies to collect the
 5   increase in property taxes related to these properties over a period of time. During the life of these
 6   RDA projects, they collect the change in property taxes. The funds can then be used for specific
 7   projects within the redevelopment areas or for specific projects that are going to benefit those
 8   RDAs. This can include infrastructure or incentives to get a specific type of business in. The
 9   particular RDAs and Economic Development Areas (“EDA”) the City has do not allow the City to
10   target sales tax-generating businesses but are designed to target increases in value and jobs that
11   benefit the community.
12
13   The Restricted Fund looks most like a business and is known as the Water Operating Fund. The
14   Water Fund has depreciation like a business, calculates revenue, and obtains revenue like a
15   business based on the sale of water to users. Money cannot be pulled out of the Water Operating
16   Fund for the General Fund for general purposes but it can fund itself for the projects it has going
17   on including replacing water lines, if necessary. There is a Water Impact Fee Fund that has helped
18   fund a tank on 15000 South to supply additional volume and pressure.
19
20   This year, they are proposing an additional fund that is a restricted fund but can also collect
21   property taxes that are designed just to go to the Public Safety Services Fund. Any money that
22   goes in can only be spent for the purposes of the fund. An ordinance will be created and approved
23   by the City Council to create the fund, define what it will do, and specify how the money can be
24   spent.
25
26   Mr. Kartchner stated that once staff has estimated the revenue and received the expenses from the
27   different department heads, he and Ms. Thayer use a model where they input the numbers, get
28   direction from the Council, and present a budget. He expected the bulk of tonight’s discussion to
29   involve the General Fund, the Capital Projects Fund, and the newly proposed Public Safety



                                                      13
                                DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                 BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                            AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Services Fund. Mr. Kartchner encouraged the Council Members to consider the following as they
 2   review the budget:
 3
 4          Why revenues or expenses are increasing or decreasing;
 5          Do service fees cover related service costs;
 6          What assumptions were used in calculating the projected revenues;
 7          Are assumptions and resulting revenues realistic; and
 8          How is the property tax calculated in Utah. The calculation is designed to eliminate a
 9           windfall increase, which is why the rate changes every year.
10
11   Mr. Kartchner pointed out that there are different types of revenue. He noted that property and
12   sales taxes are recurring revenue. Others are one-time money such as grants. They try to spend
13   one-time monies on one-time expenses to avoid recurring expenses. He encouraged the Council
14   to consider what service level they want to provide in terms of staffing. They’ve broken it down
15   into different departments reflecting different service areas. Some services are external, some are
16   internal, and others are not things people notice except for when it doesn’t happen. For example,
17   when asking how to define good water service when water is always available.
18
19   Some general assumptions and important factors incorporated into the budget were described.
20   They expect the City to grow population-wise at about 2% over the next two years. They are
21   seeing a slowdown in housing so population growth was not expected to be as robust as it has been
22   for the last five years.
23
24   Housing and commercial construction show a slight decrease as a couple of large projects are
25   concluding and there are not many more on the immediate horizon. There is vacant land in
26   Bluffdale and there is interest in the development of various, however, until a plan is presented
27   those projects are not incorporated into the budgets or projections.
28




                                                     14
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                 BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                            AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Sales taxes are ahead of budget. The challenge is that the actual numbers are delayed by two
 2   months from when the sales tax was generated. Staff will continue to adjust the numbers as new
 3   information is received.
 4
 5   Mr. Kartchner reported that a 5% Cost-of-Living Allowance (“COLA”) has been incorporated for
 6   existing personnel to retain personnel. The market for people in Utah is still tight. Unemployment
 7   in Utah is still below 3%, which puts it below the full employment numbers of 3.6%.
 8
 9   Other budget priorities include moving forward with the Public Works Building, which they are in
10   dire need of. They are making changes in firefighter positions from part-time to full-time. They
11   are also adding additional Public Works personnel to account for the additional infrastructure and
12   the new park that is going in. As they have increased the Public Works Department it is becoming
13   challenging for Mr. Paddock to manage. As a result, it was proposed that an Assistant be hired to
14   help him.
15
16   The City Council discussed the Tentative Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. Council Member
17   Kallas had spent a lot of time reading through the Tentative Budget and did not need to review the
18   document line-by-line. Mayor Hall felt it would be helpful for members of the public if the full
19   document was reviewed and important portions highlighted. She appreciated that the Council
20   Members were prepared for the meeting and had read through all of the materials.
21
22   Ms. Thayer presented the Tentative Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. She reiterated that it is
23   tentative and a meeting will take place in June when the budget will be fine-tuned. There could be
24   additional City Council Meetings to discuss the budget if desired by the Council. As far as the
25   budget format, it showed the Prior Year Actual from Fiscal Year 2022 for comparison. There was
26   also the Current Year Budget for Fiscal Year 2023, an Actual Year to Date through March 2023,
27   and an End of Year Projection. There were other columns to the side for future reference. Those
28   would not be the focus during the current City Council Meeting, but Fiscal Year 2024 Department
29   Requests would be reviewed.
30


                                                    15
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   As for the General Fund Revenues, it was estimated that the revenues would be down compared
 2   to the current budget year revenue dollars. Mr. Kartchner referenced the property tax line. He
 3   failed to mention that one of the EDAs capped out this year and money would no longer be
 4   collected in the EDA. With that cap, the incremental taxes that were being collected by the EDA
 5   would revert to all of the tax collectors. This included the individual, County, School District,
 6   Mosquito Abatement District, and the City. The Management Fee, which was shown at the bottom
 7   of the Revenue Schedule, would be less than the additional property taxes that would be collected.
 8   That was the primary reason there was a projected bump in property taxes. It was due to the change
 9   in the Jordan Narrows EDA.
10
11   Ms. Thayer reviewed the summary of the General Fund Expenditures. She highlighted some of
12   the department changes. There was a note that Law Enforcement would be moved to the Public
13   Safety Services Fund. She reported that Law Enforcement had an increased estimate. There was
14   no additional personnel proposed, but a wage analysis was done and wages were at the low end.
15   The estimate shown was based on an anticipated market adjustment, targeted promotions, and
16   normal step increases. There would be some increase in the Fire Department costs to move two of
17   the six part-time employees to full-time positions. In the Parks Department, there was a request to
18   add three new additional Parks personnel. Mr. Kartchner explained that for the last few years, the
19   Parks Department has requested additional personnel. However, last year, no additional personnel
20   was approved. He was pleased that the Tentative Budget indicated that personnel could be added
21   to address the existing needs within the Parks Department.
22
23   Ms. Thayer referenced the Recreation section. That program continued to grow and there was a
24   desire to add another half position there. In the Streets Department, there was a request to increase
25   it by half a position to reflect the expansion in road miles and to meet some of the stormwater
26   system maintenance requirements.       There was also a request to add a position as a Shop
27   Maintenance Assistant to the Fleet Manager. The fleet was growing and assistance was needed.
28




                                                      16
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Mr. Kartchner noted that the Fleet Manager position and Shop Maintenance Assistant would save
 2   money as a lot of the maintenance needs were addressed in-house and in a timely manner. Adding
 3   in an Assistant Public Works Director was also proposed to assist with management of the growing
 4   Public Works Department. In the Water Department, there was a request to fill four positions.
 5   Ms. Thayer reviewed the Transfers, Loans, and Reserves portion of the budget. She pointed out
 6   that there was a jump in the transfers, which had to do with the setup of the new Public Safety
 7   Services Fund. From the General Fund, $5,475,100 would be transferred to the Public Safety
 8   Services Fund. The fund included the Police and Fire Departments.
 9
10   Mr. Kartchner reported that something else had been identified recently. The budget showed the
11   purchase of a Battalion Chief Truck for the third Battalion Chief. City Staff found a good deal on
12   one with a 10% discount.       The vehicle was available right away and the cost would be
13   approximately $50,000. The other $30,000 needed would be for outfitting and equipment. For
14   the $50,000 needed, there had been discussions about pulling that out of the budget for next year
15   and accelerating that as part of the current budget. With a head nod from the Council, he would
16   move in that direction and acquire the truck in the current year. The Council expressed support.
17
18   Mr. Reid informed those present that no police officers were added to the Tentative Budget.
19   However, there was an increase in the costs. The raise shown would provide the officers with a
20   more competitive salary. As for the Fire Department, two part-time firefighters would move to
21   full-time positions. This would ensure that the current level of service remained.
22
23   Ms. Thayer reported that the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) was applied to the expenses. It was
24   used to estimate the increased costs. The Cost-of-Living Adjustment (“COLA”) would be applied
25   to the personnel costs. Mr. Kartchner explained that when the model was last updated, the CPI
26   was at 6.7%. The most recent numbers were shown to be at 6%. The numbers would continue to
27   be monitored and adjustments made accordingly. The expenses would fluctuate somewhat. Ms.
28   Thayer reviewed the Employee Benefits. The renewal that was received for medical showed an
29   increase of 5.5%. The dental did not have an increase. There was a meeting scheduled with the



                                                     17
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   benefits broker soon. She explained that the benefits broker did market comparisons, so more
 2   would be known shortly.
3
4    In the Streets Department, there were additional equipment needs, including an asphalt trailer and
5    a street utility plow that were listed in the Capital Projects. The Parks Department had a request
6    for a UTV to assist with various parks. Some additional equipment had been requested from the
7    Water Department as well. For Waste Management, there was a CPI rate listed as 10.5%. There
 8   would be an increase in the Sanitation Department. Ms. Thayer reiterated that the most notable
 9   change in the transfers was the transfer to the Public Safety Services Fund.
10
11   Mr. Kartchner reported that the Water Department met with the Water Engineers approximately
12   one year earlier to identify a way to change the peaking for water usage. The charge for water was
13   heavily based on a peaking charge but that team was able to change the way the City was working
14   with the tanks to reduce the peaking. He noted that a Water Fee Study would be done and the rates
15   may increase or decrease as a result. Mr. Reid reported that previously the rate increase for water
16   had been over average. Due to the change that was implemented, it was lower than other
17   communities. He congratulated the Public Works Department for their work. Mr. Paddock
18   reported that he attended the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District’s Annual Member Meeting
19   earlier in the day. Last year, Bluffdale was the only city that was above the line, which was the
20   result of the peaking. As of today, the City was eighth down the line.
21
22   Ms. Thayer reported that the Tentative Budget showed a deficit of $441,000 in the General Fund.
23   City Staff would continue to fine-tune the budget and make adjustments. Mr. Kartchner explained
24   that some changes had already been identified. It was anticipated that the deficit would be reduced.
25   He clarified that the City was required to have a balanced budget every year, which Bluffdale did.
26   The City could use some of the Unappropriated Fund Balance to cover the expenses in the event
27   that the budget was not balanced, but he did not believe that would need to happen in this case.
28
29   Ms. Thayer shared information from the Class C Roads section of the Tentative Budget document.
30   She explained that it covered maintenance on streets. She next reviewed the Community Events


                                                     18
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   section, which is a sub-fund of the General Fund. Other sub-funds included the Bluffdale Arts
 2   Advisory Board, Miss Bluffdale Pageant, and the Rodeo Fund. Ms. Thayer discussed the EDA
 3   and RDA areas, including the Eastern Bluffdale EDA. It showed the tax increment coming in and
 4   some large projects. She clarified that some of the projects took several years. There were some
 5   carryover amounts and those were worked into the estimate and tracked so the overall cost of the
 6   budget was not exceeded.
 7
 8   The Gateway RDA and Jordan Narrows EDA were referenced. For a lot of the areas, there was a
 9   line item called Infrastructure Incentives, which could be used to incentivize development. Some
10   of the different impact fees were reviewed with the Council.
11
12   The Capital Projects were shared. Ms. Thayer noted that several items were shown on the Capital
13   Projects list. She reviewed the Water Operations Fund, which was a separate fund that brought in
14   its own revenue. The Water Impact Fees were also referenced. Ms. Thayer shared Local Building
15   Authority information. She noted that an adjustment would be made there. As for the Public
16   Safety Services Fund section, there was additional detail included in the tentative budget.
17
18   Council Member Aston thanked Staff and the various departments for their work. The last year
19   had been a struggle and she appreciated that every department had made the budget as tight as
20   possible. She noted that the Finance Department had listened to what Bluffdale residents had to
21   say and factored those desires into the Tentative Budget for 2023-2024.
22
23   Council Member Kallas echoed those comments. He believed that City Staff had done a great job.
24   He understood that a lot of work had gone into the tentative budget. In the Capital Projects section,
25   it listed a Google Fiber Inspection.       He wondered whether that needed to be changed.
26   Mr. Kartchner confirmed that the name needed to be changed. Council Member Kallas noted that
27   some flooding had occurred a few weeks ago. He wondered if the associated clean-up was
28   considered in the Capital Projects section. Mr. Reid explained that the intention was to address
29   that work in the current fiscal year. The park was a flood control basin for the County and the



                                                      19
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Governor had released some emergency funds. The hope was that most of the work would be done
 2   before the end of the fiscal year. That would be reflected in the final budget adjustment.
 3
 4   Council Member Kallas believed that the name of the Public Safety Services Fund made sense but
 5   he felt that there might be a more appropriate one. Mr. Kartchner stated that Council Members
 6   could share suggestions. Council Member Kallas stressed the importance of transparency. He
 7   liked the idea of there being a separate fund because it create more transparency. He wondered if
 8   the fund should be called Police and Fire Protection or Police and Fire Services instead. Council
 9   Member Kallas reiterated his appreciation for the work that had been done on the budget.
10
11   Council Member Crockett noted that the Youth City Council was listed under the City Council
12   section. She wondered if it would be more appropriate to have a sub-fund instead. Mr. Kartchner
13   explained that the Youth City Council was listed there because historically, City Council Members
14   were acting as Liaisons. It was a small enough item that he did not believe a separate sub-fund
15   was needed. If the City Council did not believe it was appropriate to be within the City Council
16   section of the budget, it could be in the Administrative Fund instead. Council Member Crockett
17   was not certain that the City Council section made the most sense.
18
19   Mayor Hall pointed out that the Youth City Council Charter Resolution Bylaws state that the City
20   Council works, trains, and assists the Youth Council. They are the Council that is under the City
21   Council. There is a Mayor, as well as Council Members, a Treasurer, and a Secretary. Mr. Reid
22   reported that the Youth City Council has been extremely active in the last few years. Their
23   fundraising on the revenue side has made it possible to raise the expense side. Council Member
24   Crockett felt that Staff had done an excellent job and had listened to the public. She praised the
25   Department Heads for making their requests as lean as possible.
26
27   Council Member Hales asked for additional details about the Public Safety Services Fund. He
28   noted that only a portion of the service needs would be covered there. Mayor Hall clarified that
29   the revenue collected in that fund could only be used for those services. This would give residents
30   peace of mind about where and how that money would be used. Council Member Hales expressed


                                                     20
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                 BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                            AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                                Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   concerns that the fund may cause some confusion. Until the property taxes could fully fund the
 2   public safety needs, he did not understand the purpose of the Public Safety Services Fund. He felt
 3   it would lead to a misunderstanding. Council Member Hales did not have an issue with the
 4   tentative budget that had been presented but had some concerns about the Public Safety Services
 5   Fund. Council Member Aston believed he had valid concerns. When the City tried to raise
 6   property taxes to pay for Police and Fire services, the referendum specifically stated that residents
 7   did not trust where the money was going. The fund would create more transparency. Council
 8   Member Hales stressed the importance of sending residents a clear message. Residents needed to
 9   understand that not all of the services would be covered by the Public Safety Services Fund.
10
11   Council Member Kallas acknowledged that the Public Safety Services Fund is only a portion of
12   the full needs. The fund was essentially a baby step in the right direction. It was difficult to make
13   the switch all at one time, but this was at least a step forward. Having 100% coverage in that fund
14   was not something that he believed was possible for the City of Bluffdale at the current time.
15
16   Council Member Hales noted that the Tentative Budget references the need for new employees,
17   but in the past, it had been difficult to fill the positions. Mr. Kartchner reported that there had been
18   some success with hiring over the last few weeks. He hoped that trend would continue. Mr. Reid
19   added that there was a desire to hire seasonal workers as well. The Parks Department has been
20   fully staffed for the most part, but the Streets Department and Water Department have struggled.
21   Council Member Kallas asked if a tax increase was proposed. Mr. Kartchner reported that a tax
22   increase was proposed in the Public Safety Services Fund. It would require a Truth in Taxation
23   hearing in August. The current calculation was approximately 21%, but with the $50,000 that
24   would be moved out for the truck, the percentage would drop below 20%. Council Member Aston
25   acknowledged that the Public Safety Services Fund was not a perfect solution, but it was a step in
26   the right direction. It would increase transparency and focus on funding for public safety.
27
28   Mayor Hall opened the public hearing. She noted that this was also the public hearing for the
29   Local Building Authority (“LBA”) and the Redevelopment Agency (“RDA”).



                                                       21
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1
 2   Japeth McGee gave his address as 1128 West Starry Night Drive. He liked the idea of the Public
 3   Safety Services Fund and thought it was an innovative solution. Separating that out would allow
 4   residents to better see the needs and understand where the funds were being used. He reiterated
 5   his support for the fund and thanked the City Council and City Staff for their efforts.
 6
 7   There were no further comments. The public hearing was closed.
 8
 9   Council Member Aston moved to APPROVE Resolution No. 2023-18 – Adopting the
10   Tentative Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year and establishing the time and place for the
11   public hearing on the Final Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. Council Member Crockett
12   seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Council Member Hales-Aye; Council Member Aston-
13   Aye; Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council Member Crockett-Aye. The motion passed
14   unanimously.
15
16          8.2     Ordinance No. 2023-08 - Amending Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinances
17                  regarding Accessory Dwelling Units, Bluffdale City Code (BCC) Chapter
18                  11.340 and Associated Definitions in BCC 11.20, City of Bluffdale, Applicant.
19                  (Staff Presenter, Grant Crowell).
20
21   Mayor Hall reported that the issue of Accessory Dwelling Units ("ADU") had been discussed for
22   several months by the City Council. City Staff and the Planning Commission also had lengthy
23   discussions related to ADUs. Mr. Crowell noted that this was the seventh meeting about the topic
24   but it had been discussed several other times over the years as well. At the end of last year, the
25   Council started to discuss the possibility of allowing Detached Accessory Dwelling Units ("D-
26   ADU"). D-ADUs are often in or above a garage or could even include a smaller separate unit.
27   Essentially, the detached unit was not within the primary dwelling on the property.
28
29   After a few Work Sessions with the City Council, a draft was sent to the Planning Commission for
30   discussion. The Planning Commission comprehensively reviewed the ordinance draft. It had been
31   forwarded positively to the City Council for consideration. The Planning Commission considered
32   the General Plan and Moderate-Income Housing Plan.             As a result, the first finding and


                                                     22
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   recommendation was, “That the proposed amendment furthers options for housing in the
 2   community as contemplated in the City’s adopted General Plan and Moderate Income Housing
 3   Plan.” Those documents acknowledged that D-ADUs were an achievable housing type for the
 4   community. The rest of the Planning Commission findings and recommendations were as follows:
5
6          That the regulations proposed balance property rights and community interests;
 7         That the ordinance provides a path for property owners to legalize any currently non-
 8          compliant D-ADUs in the community;
 9         That allowing ADUs will increase safety through compliance with adopted building codes;
10         That minimum lot size standard for D-ADUs units are removed from the ordinance draft;
11         Design standards for D-ADUs are removed from the ordinance draft.
12
13   Mr. Crowell noted that the packet included a lot of background information about ADUs and
14   previous City discussions. He explained that within the ordinance draft, some new definitions had
15   been created. There had been questions about whether the ordinance would address short-term
16   rentals. He clarified that a situation for short-term rentals would not be created. The language in
17   the ordinance stated that an ADU was, “For the purpose of offering a long-term rental or occupancy
18   of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.” That being said, the community did not have a Short-
19   Term Rental Ordinance in place. That was something that Council Members may want to consider
20   looking into in the future. The homes in Bluffdale lent themselves to a lot of different uses because
21   of their size, so short-term rentals were a concern to some residents.
22
23   Several years ago, the City focused on Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (“I-ADU”). There were
24   some updates related to I-ADUs in the draft ordinance as well. I-ADUs and D-ADUs were
25   separated within the document and some reorganization had taken place. The draft ordinance was
26   further reviewed. Mr. Crowell noted that there was information about notices, D-ADUs running
27   with the land, and the violation process. The State Code provided some guidance on specific
28   notices that the City needed to provide property owners who had violations related to ADUs.
29   Essentially, the State wanted to provide opportunities to cure the identified issues.


                                                      23
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1
 2   Mr. Crowell reported that there had been previous discussions about appropriate zones, lot sizes,
 3   the number of allowed ADUs on a lot, utility metering, bulk and height standards, parking, fire
 4   codes, design, appearance, impact fees, addressing, balconies, entrances, stairs, and so on. After
 5   discussing those issues, the draft ordinance had been created. Mayor Hall noted that Council
 6   Members could now ask questions. Council Member Kallas suggested that the hearing take place.
 7
 8   Mayor Hall opened the public hearing.
 9
10   Jack Anderson gave his address as 2401 West Statehood Drive. He explained that he is a designer
11   and has designed a number of large garages in Bluffdale. The reason he was at the meeting was
12   for additional clarification. Mr. Anderson noted that there is a provision that states that a D-ADU
13   can be no larger than 50% of the main dwelling. He wondered if that included both the basement
14   and upper floor or if it was the footprint of the building. Additionally, he wanted to understand
15   how the 50% would be determined. There were a number of garages in the City that had spaces
16   in the upper portion that could be used for a D-ADU.
17
18   Mr. Anderson shared a scenario with the Council. If someone has a smaller home that is further
19   back on the lot, he wanted to know if it was possible to build a new primary home in front and
20   make the existing home a D-ADU. If the existing home had a 1,500-square-foot basement and a
21   1,500-square-foot main floor, he wanted to know if the new home needed to be 6,000 square feet.
22   That would be a sizable home. He reiterated the need for additional clarity.
23
24   Chad Brasier gave his address as 2960 West Country Classic Drive. He has lived in the area for
25   24 years and had been in his current home for eight years. The reason he bought his current
26   property was due to the lot size. The intention was to build a detached garage or living space in
27   the future. In his residential neighborhood, approximately 25% of the homes had detached garages.
28   Most of them were fairly large and had living space. He was not sure what the purpose of the new
29   ordinance was beyond making sure all of the ADUs were legal and inspected. However, he did




                                                     24
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   not understand the 50% size suggestion. He wondered what would happen to the residents who
 2   already had large detached buildings on their properties. Mr. Brasier wanted clarification.
 3
 4   Mayor Hall noted that education will be vital because there seemed to be a lot of confusion about
 5   the draft ordinance. She felt it was important for the Council to address the reasons behind the
 6   ADU discussions and suggested that the next Mayor’s Message address that.
 7
 8   Mr. Crowell noted that one email comment had been received. The email had asked if the language
 9   applied to short-term rentals. No additional comments were submitted.
10
11   Mr. Crowell believed it was important to answer the following question: “What is the problem we
12   are trying to solve?” Currently, having a D-ADU was not legal. Occasionally, there had been
13   enforcement on illegal D-ADUs. There was interest in trying to legalize a use that was already
14   occurring in the community, but to create some guidelines that made sense. The fees would be
15   nominal and it was worth considering not having fees for a year to encourage residents to register
16   their D-ADUs. Council Member Aston reiterated that in Bluffdale, D-ADUs were not permitted.
17   The Council was trying to make it possible for residents to legally have D-ADUs. Council Member
18   Kallas believed that the ordinances needed to be in line with the realities of the community.
19   Additionally, he noted that the State was requiring cities to take action on housing. There was a
20   menu item of options that cities needed to choose from, which included ADUs.
21
22   Mr. Crowell pointed out that a lot of the concerns were related to minimum and maximum sizes.
23   Several communities have minimums and maximums set for ADUs. However, he noted that there
24   was a wide range of house sizes in the community, so it was difficult to decide what to do. For I-
25   ADUs, which had been adopted many years ago, 50% of the square footage of the home was the
26   rule. That was where the 50% suggestion came from for D-ADUs. He explained that the Council
27   could further discuss sizes and what was desired for D-ADUs moving forward.
28
29   Mr. Crowell reported that there are two 20,000-square-foot houses under construction in the City.
30   Given that, the Council needs to consider whether 10,000-square-foot Detached Accessory


                                                    25
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

1    Dwelling Units (“D-ADU”) are desired. If a property is two acres in size, there would be plenty
2    of room for that. He reported that two parking spaces were added to the draft language for D-
3    ADUs and pointed out that there is 30% lot coverage in a lot of zones. There had been a lot of
4    discussion about whether D-ADUs are secondary or whether those units would be considered two
5    houses. During previous City Council Meeting discussions on D-ADUs, it was determined that
6    there would not be a requirement for the unit to be located above a garage. The Council stated at
 7   that time that the unit could stand alone. As a result, the unit could look like a secondary house.
 8   He suggested that the Council spend time discussing the desired proportions and sizes of D-ADUs.
 9
10   Mayor Hall believed that lot coverage was the main area of concern. She did not know that the
11   Council cared if the garage is 50% livable and 50% not. Council Member Kallas clarified that a
12   lot of differing opinions were shared during the previous discussions. The intention was to allow
13   Accessory Dwelling Units (“ADU”) in the community but not turn that into flag lots or subdivided
14   lots. The 50% rule is common to ensure that the use is an accessory rather than a primary use.
15   Mayor Hall asked what the 50% entailed. Council Member Kallas explained that if a home is
16   10,000 square feet in size there could be an ADU of up to 5,000 square feet. If a house is 2,000
17   square feet in size there could be an ADU of up to 1,000 square feet. Mayor Hall wondered what
18   would happen if there was a house with a small footprint but the home is tall. Council Member
19   Kallas stated that a 50% square foot ADU would still apply in that case.
20
21   Mayor Hall asked for information on lot coverage. Mr. Crowell reported that lot coverage is the
22   accumulation of all buildings on a property. In the R-1-43 Zone, it is 30%, and 40% in the R-1-10
23   Zone. There is essentially a budget to work with to determine the structure sizes. Council Member
24   Hales explained that if restrictions are placed, then inevitably, there will be some properties that
25   fall outside of those restrictions. It is necessary to have some restrictions to create balance.
26   Council Member Aston did not believe a decision should be made about ADUs at the current time.
27   She wanted to speak to residents and better understand what is desired. The goal was to
28   accommodate the citizens and address a need.
29


                                                     26
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Mayor Hall liked the idea of continuing the discussion. Council Member Kallas asked for
 2   clarification about some of the language. He shared a scenario involving a 2,000-square-foot home
 3   and a large detached garage with finished space above. He wanted to understand whether the
 4   ordinance would allow ADU space based on the total square footage of the primary structure or
 5   the finished space on the property. Mr. Crowell explained that the square footage of the primary
 6   dwelling would be considered. Internal Accessory Dwelling Units (“I-ADU”) would be accessory
 7   and subordinate to be no more than 50% of the total square footage of the primary dwelling.
 8   Council Member Kallas wanted to understand whether the specific type of square footage was
 9   counted. Mr. Crowell suggested that clarity be added to the language to clearly define what would
10   and would not count. Council Member Kallas believed additional discussion was needed. He felt
11   it was important to remember that the intention of an ADU was to have an accessory and
12   subordinate use to the primary dwelling unit. References to finished or livable space need to be
13   clearly stated as garage space would not count.
14
15   Mr. Crowell offered to look at different scenarios to determine what makes the most sense. Council
16   Member Hales explained that regulations are needed as well as enforcement. Broadening things
17   too much would make enforcement difficult. Mayor Hall asked Staff to look into appropriate
18   wording for livable space. There seemed to be a desire to have the amount be 50% or less of the
19   livable square footage of the primary dwelling. Council Member Kallas pointed out that if a
20   basement is unfinished, it would still count as part of the square footage.
21
22   In response to a question raised, Mr. Dunkelberger explained that from a drafting point of view,
23   there is no way to draft the language in a way that would not exclude some people from doing
24   exactly what they want to with their property. That being said, the intention was to balance
25   individual property rights with the rights of others. He did not see anything currently drafted that
26   presented an issue but stated that more specificity could be beneficial. The public hearing was
27   held previously so the item could be tabled.
28




                                                       27
                          DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   Council Member Kallas moved to TABLE Ordinance No. 2023-08 – Amending Bluffdale
 2   City Land Use Ordinances regarding Accessory Dwelling Units to the next City Council
 3   Meeting. Council Member Aston seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Council Member
4    Aston-Aye; Council Member Kallas-Aye; Council Member Crockett-Aye; Council Member
5    Hales-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
 6
 7   LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD MEETING
 8
 9   1.     Call to Order.
10
11   All members of the Local Building Authority (“LBA”) were in attendance with the exception of
12   Board Member Gaston, who was excused.
13
14   2.     Public Hearing Items.
15
16          2.1     LBA Resolution No. 2023-01 - Adopting the Tentative Budget for the 2023-
17                  2024 Fiscal Year and Establishing the Time and Place for the Public Hearing
18                  on the Final Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. (Staff Presenters, Stephanie
19                  Thayer, and Bruce Kartchner) [LBA Public Hearing Held in Conjunction with
20                  the Budget Hearing.]
21
22   The public hearing was held during the Regular Business Meeting.
23
24   Board Member Aston moved to APPROVE LBA Resolution No. 2023-01 – Adopting the
25   Tentative Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year and establishing the time and place for the
26   Public Hearing on the Final Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. Board Member Crockett
27   seconded the motion.       Vote on motion: Board Member Kallas-Aye; Board Member
28   Crockett-Aye; Board Member Hall-Aye; Board Member Hales-Aye; Board Member Aston-
29   Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
30
31   3.     LBA Discussion.
32
33   There were no further discussions.
34



                                                   28
                          DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   4.     Adjournment.
 2
 3   Board Member Hales moved to ADJOURN the LBA Board Meeting. The motion passed
 4   unanimously.
 5
 6   BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
 7
 8   1.     Call to Order.
 9
10   Chair Kallas called the Redevelopment Agency (“RDA”) Board Meeting to order. All members
11   of the RDA Board were in attendance, with the exception of Board Member Gaston who was
12   excused.
13
14   2.     Public Hearing Items.
15
16          2.1     RDA Resolution No. 2023-02 - Adopting the Tentative Budget for the 2023-
17                  2024 Fiscal Year and Establishing the Time and Place for the Public Hearing
18                  on the Final Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. (Staff Presenters, Stephanie
19                  Thayer, and Bruce Kartchner) [RDA Public Hearing held in conjunction with
20                  the Budget Hearing].
21
22   The public hearing was held during the Regular Business Meeting.
23
24   Board Member Aston moved to APPROVE RDA Resolution No. 2023-02 – Adopting the
25   Tentative Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year and establishing the time and place for the
26   Public Hearing on the Final Budget for the 2023-2024 Fiscal Year. Board Member Hales
27   seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Board Member Crockett-Aye; Board Member Hall-
28   Aye; Board Member Hales-Aye; Board Member Aston-Aye; Chair Kallas-Aye. The motion
29   passed unanimously.
30
31   3.     RDA Discussion.
32
33          3.1     Discussion of Potential Use of Funds. (Staff Presenter, Grant Crowell).
34
35   Mr. Crowell reported that the cap on the Jordan Narrows EDA had been reached. That means
36   there is one EDA with generating potential for tax increment, which was the Eastern Bluffdale


                                                   29
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                             AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                  MEETING MINUTES
                                 Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1   EDA. He discussed infrastructure projects with the Board such as 14730 South. There had been
 2   discussions about the property acquisition and there was a final design. That RDA project was
 3   still moving ahead. He explained that it takes a long time to do property acquisition when there
 4   are different parties involved, so he did not know when that would be completed.
 5
 6   Mr. Crowell informed the Board that there was jurisdiction for property to 800 West. It was logical
 7   to extend that, which might be a good use of the funds. He noted that there is also the Site Plan
 8   for Centrum. In the Development Agreement, there is a cost share idea for intersection and Rising
 9   Star Way improvements. Mr. Crowell reported that on April 28, 2023, there is a meeting scheduled
10   with the County to discuss the use of the housing allocation. That was in the current budget and
11   would be in the budget for next year as well.
12
13   4.       Adjournment.
14
15   The RDA Meeting was adjourned.
16
17   CONTINUATION OF BUSINESS MEETING
18
19   9.       Staff Reports, Additional Council Discussion, and Calendaring Items:
20
21   Mayor Hall reported on the following:
22
23           The Love Where You Live event was scheduled for May 22, 2023. Council Members who
24            need a replacement Love Where You Live shirt could inform Mayor Hall.
25           The Fat Cats opening was moved to Memorial Day weekend.
26           Mayor Hall shared information about the Rodeo Committee. The Committee was working
27            with the Public Works Department to address the bleachers. A lot of work needed to be
28            done. This year, there would be two service days. Anyone from the Council that was
29            available to assist with scraping and repainting of the bleachers was asked to inform Staff.
30            A number of bleachers need to be repainted so it is clear to ticket holders where their seats
31            are. This would ensure that the tickets are not oversold, which has been an issue in the
32            past. The service days were scheduled for May 3, 2023, and May 8, 2023. The rodeo dates



                                                       30
                          DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                           AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                MEETING MINUTES
                               Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1          were scheduled for July 28, 2023, and July 29, 2023. Tickets were to go on sale at the end
 2          of May.
 3
 4   Council Member Kallas reported that approximately one year ago before the Porter Rockwell
 5   Bridge opened, the intersection of Porter Rockwell and 14600 South was restriped for 14600 South
 6   traffic headed east towards I-15. The traffic backed up Porter Rockwell and there was confusion
 7   about whether it was possible to turn. Striping was done so it was clear to anyone heading
 8   eastbound before the intersection that it was for right turns only. This helped vehicles coming
 9   from Herriman and elsewhere to move through the intersection better. However, now that striping
10   has been reversed. Where it widened to become a right-turn lane only is now a thru street. On
11   Porter Rockwell Boulevard two right-turn lanes were created but they do not turn into their own
12   lanes. In the mornings, traffic is now backed up one-half mile or more. He believed it is a Utah
13   Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) road and wondered if it would be possible to speak to
14   UDOT about the change that was made.
15
16   Mr. Paddock was not aware that UDOT made that change. Council Member Kallas explained that
17   the restriping had been done within the last few weeks. Mr. Paddock offered to find out more
18   information and report back to the City Council. Council Member Kallas believed it should be
19   switched back and suggested that UDOT representatives look at the traffic issues created in the
20   mornings. Council Member Crockett had also noticed traffic in the area.
21
22   Mr. Reid reported on the following:
23
24         It has been over one year since the Parameters Resolution was completed for the Public
25          Works Building. As a result, it would be brought back and redone. It would remain at the
26          same $16 million as before but he expected the work would be done for less than that.
27          Currently, it is in for permit and review. There are four lots on the property that were being
28          combined into one lot. That should be done in the next week or so.




                                                     31
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                              AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                                   MEETING MINUTES
                                  Wednesday, April 26, 2023

 1            As for the trestle project, there was a meeting with contractors and the consultant from
 2             Europe. The contractor selected was Ralph L. Wadsworth Construction. There would be
 3             work with them related to Union Pacific and moving the project forward.
 4            The Annual Police Awards Ceremony was scheduled to take place on May 9, 2023, at
 5             12:00 p.m. at the Officer’s Club at Camp Williams. It is an impressive ceremony where
 6             awards are presented. He recommended that Council Members attend, if possible.
 7            SWAT training was taking place from May 1, 2023, to May 5, 2023, at Camp Williams. It
 8             was possible for Council Members to observe that training. Police Chief, Andrew Burton,
 9             could arrange that, as anyone attending needed to arrive in a government vehicle.
10            Mr. Reid shared information about the park. He referenced the butterfly wall, which is an
11             area where there are 840 pavers. In the newsletter, there would be an opportunity for people
12             to purchase an engraved paver. The pavers themselves cost under $10, the engraving costs
13             approximately $25, and then there was labor to consider. It would cost $50 per paver.
14
15   Fire Chief, Matt Evans reported that he sent the Council Members an email related to Fire Ops
16   101. It would give the Council Members a better understanding of what it is like to be a firefighter.
17   Everything is controlled but participants are put into a kitchen fire scenario. Additionally,
18   attendees would cut apart a car and watch a full arrest scenario. It is important to understand what
19   it takes to fight a fire, do CPR, and keep the community safe. Chief Evans noted that some Council
20   Members were unable to attend on the scheduled date of May 13, 2023, and may need to be
21   rescheduled. He asked the Council Members to let him know if there was a better date. Mayor
22   Hall asked if May 6, 2023, was an option. Council Member Aston was out of town on that date.
23   There was discussion about possible dates in June 2023. Chief Evans offered to send an email to
24   each Council Member. The email would ask for specific dates and availability. Using that
25   information, he would determine a date that would work best for the City Council.
26
27   10.       Closed Meeting, if any.
28
29   There was no Closed Meeting.



                                                       32
                         DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

               BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL, LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY,
                          AND REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                               MEETING MINUTES
                              Wednesday, April 26, 2023

1
2    11.    Adjournment.
3
4    Council Member Hales moved to ADJOURN. The motion was seconded by Council Member
 5   Aston. The motion passed with the unanimous consent of the Council.
 6
 7   The City Council Meeting adjourned at 9:57 p.m.
 8
 9
10   __________________________________
11   Wendy Deppe, CMC
12   City Recorder
13
14   Approved: _________________________




                                                  33
             REQUEST FOR CITY COUNCIL ACTION

To:                             Mayor and City Council
From:                           Grant Crowell
Date:                           17 May 2023
Business Date:                  24 May 2023
Subject:                        City Initiated Text Amendment Regarding Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
Staff Presentation:             Grant Crowell

At the April 26, 2023, City Council meeting, the Council held a public hearing on proposed amendments to the
City’s ADU regulations. Discussion often focused on the size of ADUs, as a total maximum square footage or as
a percentage of the primary dwelling. Staff was asked to create some additional definitions for what is
included in the calculations of total square feet for the primary dwelling (from which the size limitations for
ADUs is calculated) and for what space is considered part of the ADU when calculating its maximum size.

Staff has amended the code to use the Salt Lake County Assessor’s Office total square feet calculation for all
floors – excluding garage – as the primary dwelling basis and to use the definition of habitable space from the
building code for determining the maximum size of the ADU; this definition excludes storage spaces and
similar non-living areas. The code remains with the size limitation of 50% of the primary dwelling for all ADUs.

The number of large accessory buildings in the community, and that many allegedly are being used in part for
housing, creates a significant number of potential non-conformities. Coupling the new ordinance with the
large buildings allowed in Bluffdale could potentially hinder permitting of ADUs, or lead to the current
practice of labeling large areas of detached structures as unfinished or storage space. Many of these spaces
could easily be converted to bedrooms later without a permit, which appears to be the current situation in
many structures in Bluffdale. Not requiring the 50% proportion, or loosening it up to be more permissive,
could alleviate some of this potential conflict. Setbacks, overall building coverage, and additional parking
spaces could also address some concerns in lieu of that.

Some additional language to address non-conformities was clarified in the document with a new date of
acceptance of previous construction of July 1, 2023. Also, a section was added to the non-conformities
section which allows previously completed (by 7/1/23) accessory buildings to not modify existing entrance
locations – including exterior stairways. A clarification was added that allows an I-ADU to be created by or
within a new addition, which wasn’t explicitly stated and clarifies that an I-ADU can be above an attached
garage, as required by State Code.

PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
To approve the proposed ordinance amendments to Bluffdale City Code sections 11.20.020 (Definitions) and
11.340 (Accessory Dwelling Units) to update the standards related to internal and detached accessory
dwelling units, as recommended by the Planning Commission on April 12, 2023, based on the following
findings and recommendations:

    1. That the proposed amendment furthers options for housing in the community as contemplated in the
       City’s adopted General Plan and Moderate Income Housing Plan.
    2. That the regulations proposed balance property rights and community interests.
    3. That the ordinance provides a path for property owners to legalize any currently non-compliant
       detached accessory dwelling units.
    4. That allowing accessory dwelling units will increase safety through compliance with adopted building
1
       codes.
    5. That minimum lot size standards for detached accessory dwelling units are removed from the ordinance
       draft.
    6. That design standards for detached accessory dwelling units are removed from the ordinance draft.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS
         • Proposed Ordinance 2023-08, with ordinance attachment




2
                                       ORDINANCE NO. 2023-08

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING BLUFFDALE
CITY CODE SECTIONS 11.20.020 (DEFINITIONS) AND 11.340 (ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS)
UPDATING THE STANDARDS RELATED TO ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

        WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or appropriate
for the use and development of land within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the subject text amendment modifies the regulations for the placement of
internal and detached accessory dwelling units to increase flexibility and safety in the City’s housing
stock; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held public hearings and gave the City Council its
recommendation; and

        WHEREAS, after holding a public hearing and reviewing the subject text amendment, the
City Council finds that the subject text amendment will not negatively impact public health, safety,
and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as follows:

                                              See Exhibit A

        SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date.      This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS 24th DAY OF
May, 2023, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                         YES     NO       ABSTAIN         ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas




                                                                                                   Page 1 of 3
Mayor:                     Attest:
         Natalie C. Hall             City Recorder




                                                     Page 2 of 3
Exhibit A –Accessory Dwelling Ordinance Amendments




                                                     Page 3 of 3
Exhibit A –
Text Amendments to Accessory Dwelling Unit Land Use Regulations found in Bluffdale City Code

…

11.20.020 Definitions
Add New Definitions:
…

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A habitable living unit added to, created within, or detached from
a primary dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental or
occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED (D-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit, located in a permanent
structure with a permanent foundation, detached from a primary dwelling for the purpose of offering
a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL (I-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit created:
        A. Within a primary dwelling;
         B. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
is created; and
        C. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days
or longer.
HABITABLE SPACE: A space in a building for living, sleeping, eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet
rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and similar areas are not considered habitable spaces.
PRIMARY DWELLING: A single family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary
residence of the owner of record.
…

UPDATE EXISTING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE FOR ALL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
(repeal and replace existing 11.340 Accessory Dwelling Unit Code in its entirety as follows)

11.340 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
11.340.010 Purpose
11.340.020 Scope
11.340.030 Approval Process
11.340.040 General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards
11.340.050 D-ADU Development Standards
11.340.060 I-ADU Standards
11.340.070 Recorded Notice
11.340.080 Nonconforming Units
11.340.090 Violations



                                                   1
11.340.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter and any rules, regulations, standards, and specifications adopted pursuant
hereto are to:

    A. Permit property owners within certain residential zones to establish an accessory dwelling unit
       (ADU) within a single-family dwelling or accessory building subject to regulations set forth
       herein.
    B. Accommodate such housing in certain single-family residential zones with minimal impacts on
       the neighborhood in terms of traffic, noise, parking, congestion and compatible scale and
       appearance of residential buildings.
    C. Prevent the proliferation of rental dwellings, absentee ownership, property disinvestment,
       Building Code violations and associated decline in quality of single-family residential zones.
    D. Set forth standardized terms and standards for accessory dwelling units and procedures for
       review and approval of the same.

11.340.020 Scope

The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all ADUs within the City.

    A. Internal ADUs (I-ADUs) shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts, mixed
       use zones, and special district zones within single family dwellings on parcels greater than 6,000
       square feet.
    B. Detached ADUs (D-ADUs) shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts,
       mixed use zones, and special district zones on individual lots or parcels that contain no more
       than one single-family dwelling.

11.340.030 Approval Process

    A. All property owners desiring to establish an ADU must apply for, and obtain, approval prior to
       utilizing the accessory dwelling unit, using forms provided by the Planning Department.
    B. An ADU shall not be rented, leased, or occupied or offered for rent, lease or occupancy unless
       the owner of record possesses a valid ADU permit.
    C. Applications for ADUs shall be reviewed and approved by the designated Land Use Authority in
       accordance with subsection 11.030.090(I) of this title. The applicant and/or any person
       adversely affected by a decision of the Land Use Authority regarding the proposed ADU may
       appeal such decision to the Appeal Authority, as designated in subsection 11.030.090(I)of this
       title, by filing written notice of appeal with the Planning Department within ten (10) calendar
       days from the date of such decision.
    D. An ADU Permit issued by the Land Use Authority shall be required for the development and use
       of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and standards of this chapter as
       applicable to the specific type of ADU are met.
    E. Building Permit Required. All applicants for ADU approval shall obtain a building permit for
       construction or inspection associated with the proposed ADU, regardless of timing and
       method of creation or whether a non-permitted ADU has previously completed construction.
       No ADU permit and/or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for an ADU until all associated
       construction is complete and inspected pursuant to applicable building codes.


                                                   2
   F. Statement of Owner Occupancy. An application for an ADU shall include documentation, using
      forms provided by the Planning Department, that demonstrates an owner occupant resides in
      the primary dwelling or the ADU on the property pursuant to subsection 11.340.040(I).


11.340.040 General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards
The following standards and conditions shall apply to all accessory dwelling units:

   A. Location: An I-ADU must be enclosed within the primary dwelling.
   B. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not permitted
      within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
   C. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
   D. ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit or on a parcel serviced by a failing
      septic system.
   E. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.
   F. An I-ADU or D-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive
      days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one time.
   G. Size: The ADU shall be accessory and subordinate to the primary dwelling.
          a. Accessory and subordinate requires the ADU to be no more than fifty percent (50%) of
              the total square footage of all floors of the primary dwelling, as shown on Salt Lake
              County Assessor’s Office records, not including any attached garage floor space.
          b. Habitable space, as defined in this chapter, shall be used to calculate the allowed
              square footage for an ADU.
   H. The primary dwelling associated with any ADU shall be occupied by the owner of record as their
      primary residence and shall not be separately rented or offered for rent. If the primary dwelling
      associated with the ADU ceases to be occupied by the owner of record, the ADU shall not be
      rented, leased, hired, occupied, or loaned. Owner occupancy of the primary dwelling shall not
      be required when:
          a. The owner has a bona fide, temporary absence of three years or less for activities such
              as military service, temporary job assignments, sabbaticals, or voluntary service
              (indefinite periods of absence from the dwelling shall not qualify for this exception); or
          b. The owner is placed in a hospital, nursing home, assisted living facility or other similar
              facility that provides regular medical care, excluding retirement living facilities or
              communities;
          c. For up to 90 days when the property is changing ownership; or
          d. The owner lives in an approved ADU.
   I. Number: A maximum of one ADU shall be allowed per parcel which contains a primary dwelling.
      ADUs shall contain no more than one dwelling unit.
   J. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition of approval
      for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to waive any right to create an I-ADU on the
      same property unless the D-ADU is first removed from the property. This condition shall be
      included in the recorded notice of accessory dwelling unit required by section 11.340.070 of this
      chapter.
   K. Parking: At least one (1) off-street parking stall shall be constructed for an I-ADU. A minimum
      of two (2) off-street parking spaces shall be constructed for a D-ADU. Parking stalls for ADUs
      shall be constructed of an all-weather surface rolled and compacted road base, asphalt, or


                                                   3
       concrete surface which meet the dimensional requirements of Chapter 11.120 of this Title.
       Such parking stalls shall be in addition to all off-street parking requirements for the primary
       dwelling on the lot and be reserved for exclusive use by occupants of the approved ADU. The
       parking stalls for the ADU shall be located behind the front plane of the dwelling and shall not
       impede or prevent access to the primary dwelling's required parking. The parking stall may be
       in a garage only if the stall is in addition to the required number of parking spaces for the
       primary dwelling and is not a tandem parking stall. Driveways must conform to all applicable
       building and fire code requirements and adopted standards. See Figure 1 for illustration of
       permissible parking locations for ADUs.
    L. All ADUs shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in effect at the time
       the ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled. The owner of record shall be
       responsible to ensure that all required building permits and other permits are obtained for the
       creation of an ADU.
    M. ADUs that have been previously completed before July 1, 2023, and cannot be shown to have
       complied with building permit and inspection requirements for an ADU in effect at the time of
       their construction shall comply with the requirements of the International Existing Building
       Code and other applicable adopted building and fire codes and shall comply with all permit
       procedures and requirements of the City.
    N. Number of Residents. The total number of residents that reside in an ADU may not exceed the
       number allowed for a “family” for the lot on which the accessory dwelling unit is found, as
       defined in BCC 11.20.
    O. Home Occupations. Home occupations may be conducted in an ADU as allowed per Title 3 of
       the BCC. Standards for home occupations and associated impacts shall be calculated on a
       total per parcel basis, not per ADU.
    P. Addressing. Separate addressing and mailboxes for ADUs are not allowed.
    R. Continuing Use: Approval of an ADU shall run with the land if it complies with all adopted
       requirements.

11.340.050: D-ADU Development Standards:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:
A. Separate Structure: A D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary dwelling contained on the
same lot or parcel as the primary dwelling.
B. Conditions: A D-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 11.340.040 of this
Title and all the following conditions:
        1. Only one D-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
         2. A D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for an accessory building in the zoning
district in which the lot or parcel is located. Regardless of size, a D-ADU cannot be created within a
building or structure which has utilized the reduced side and rear setbacks allowed for small
accessory buildings or structures found in BCC 11.160.260. All structures shall also comply with the
maximum lot coverage percentages for the zone in which it resides.
        3. A D-ADU shall be located within the rear or side yard area of the lot or parcel and is
prohibited within the front yard area.


                                                    4
        4. The habitable square footage of a D-ADU shall be 400 square feet or greater in size.
       5. A D-ADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes in effect at the time the
D-ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled, including obtaining the required building
and other permits.
        6. D-ADUs shall be a permanent structure anchored to a foundation which meets the adopted
building codes. Trailers, mobile homes, tiny homes with wheels, and other portable or temporary
structures, or structures with wheels shall not be permitted as a D-ADU.
       7. Exterior lighting shall provide illumination directed downward. Light source shall be
shielded and not be visible from adjacent properties.
        8. Windows on a façade, located within 20 feet of an adjacent property containing a single
family or townhome residence, shall be translucent or installed as a skylight.
       9. Exterior stairways and landings shall not encroach within 20 feet of an adjacent property
containing a single family or townhome residence.
       10. Balconies on a D-ADU shall be located on the interior side of the lot and building, not
adjacent to a rear or side yard shared with a neighboring residence, and:
        a. Shall not exceed 80 square feet in size when located above the ground level of the building;
        b. Shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from a side or rear yard lot line unless the applicable
        side or rear yard lot line is adjacent to an alley;
        c. Rooftop decks or second-story decks are prohibited on an accessory structure used as a D-
       ADU.
       11. The height of a D-ADU shall conform to the height limit specified for accessory buildings in
the zoning district in which it is located.
       12. A second kitchen in a D-ADU is not allowed.
       13. Entrance Locations. The entrance to a D-ADU shall be located:

       a. Facing an alley, public street, rear or side façade of the primary dwelling, or rear yard of the
single-family dwelling on the same property.

       b. Facing a side or rear property line provided the entrance is located a minimum of 10 feet
from the side or rear property line if at ground level or first story level or 20 feet from side or rear
property line if above the first story.

       c. Exterior stairs leading to an entrance shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from a side or
rear property line.




                                                     5
       FIGURE 1 PERMISSIBLE ADU PARKING LOCATIONS




11.34.060: I-ADU Development Standards:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each I-ADU in addition to the
general standards for all ADUs found in 11.340.040:
A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the footprint of the primary dwelling, which
can also be above an attached garage. The existence of a second kitchen within the primary dwelling's
footprint does not, by itself, qualify a living space as an I-ADU. An existing second kitchen located
within a primary dwelling can be converted to an I-ADU as part of an application for the creation of an
I-ADU in compliance with all other standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.



                                                   6
B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter and with all the
following conditions:
1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
2. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary dwelling, the parking
spaces contained within the garage or carport that are removed shall be replaced in accordance with
adopted parking and access standards.
3. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health, and fire codes in effect at the time the
I-ADU is constructed, created, or subsequently remodeled. The owner of record shall be responsible to
ensure that all required building permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.

4. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the primary dwelling may
not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter the appearance of the primary dwelling from
that of a single-family dwelling.
5. Design And Character: I-ADUs shall retain the compatibility of the primary dwelling with the
residential character of the neighborhood. I-ADUs shall include materials comparable to those used on
and within the primary dwelling.
6. Ownership: The single-family dwelling and the I-ADU shall remain in single ownership and either
the single-family dwelling or the I-ADU shall be owner occupied in accordance with 11.340.040.
7. Entrance Locations. Entrances to an I-ADU shall only be permitted in the following locations:

        a. An existing entrance to the single-family dwelling;
        b. Exterior stairs on lots other than a corner lot, leading to an entrance above or below the first
        level of the principal structure, may be located on a side or rear elevation of a building;
        c. Located on the rear facade of the dwelling.

11.340.070 Recorded Notice


A. As part of the ADU permit process, the owner of the property shall execute a “notice
of accessory dwelling unit” affidavit. The City shall record the notice with the County Recorder as a
use condition on the property. The notice shall be in a form approved by the Bluffdale City Attorney.
Once recorded, a copy of the notice shall be delivered to the owner of record.
B. The notice of accessory dwelling unit shall include:
        1. A legal description and address of the property; and
        2. Either of the following statements as applicable to the type of ADU permit being issued:
                a. The primary dwelling contains an approved I-ADU and that the I-ADU may only be
        used in accordance with the land use regulations of the City of Bluffdale; or
               b. The property has an approved D-ADU and that the D-ADU may only be used in
        accordance with the land use regulations of the City of Bluffdale.




                                                    7
11.340.080: Nonconforming Units:
A. ADUs legally established prior to July 1, 2023, may continue to operate under the applicable
provisions in effect at the time they were approved and established in accordance with this chapter of
the BCC. Provided, however, legal nonconforming ADUs shall obtain and maintain an ADU permit
under the procedures of section 11.340.030.
B. ADUs converted from existing accessory buildings that were completed before July 1, 2023, do not
have to modify existing entrance locations – including exterior stairways - if all applicable building and
fire codes are met.
11.340.090 Violations
Violations of this chapter shall be enforced consistent with this title and Utah state code and may
include fines and liens.
A. Notice of Violation:
        1. Whenever an owner of record has violated any of the provisions of this chapter the City
shall provide a written notice of violation. The notice of violation shall:
                a. Describe the violation;
                b. Provide the owner of record an opportunity to cure or correct the violation that is:
                        (1) Not less than fourteen (14) days after the notice of violation is issued, for
                violations of BCC 11.340.040(G);
                        (2) Not less than thirty (30) days after the notice of violation is issued for any
                other violation;
                c. Include a statement that if the owner of record fails to cure the violation within the
        given time period that they may be subject to daily fines, liens, the revocation of permits or
        approvals, criminal prosecution, and other enforcement actions permitted by applicable law;
                d. Provide notification to the owner of record that they may file a written objection to
        the violation within fourteen (14) days after the day on which the written notice of violation is
        post-marked or posted on the property;
                e. Indicate the department name and address where the owner of record may file the
        written objection;
                f. Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to receive
        notice in the owner's license or permit records, and a copy shall be posted on the property.
        2. If an owner of record files a written objection to the written notice of violation in
accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-530(5), as amended, the Zoning Administrator shall provide notice,
hold a hearing, and conduct a review to determine whether the violation described in the written
notice of violation has occurred. If the Zoning Administrator determines that the violation in the
notice of violation has occurred, the city may impose any of the remedies listed in this section or
others as permitted by applicable law.



                                                     8
        3. If an owner of record does not file a written objection to the notice of violation and does
not cure the violation within the time period provided in the notice, the city may impose any of the
remedies listed in this section or others as permitted by applicable law.
        4. If an owner of record cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the notice of
violation, or if the Zoning Administrator finds that the violation listed in the notice of violation has not
occurred, the city may not impose sanctions.
B. Liens:
        1. Notice of lien:
                a. A written notice of lien issued under this section shall:
                         (1) Comply with the requirements of Utah Code 38-12-102 as amended;
                         (2) State that the property is subject to a lien;
                       (3) Specify the lien amount for each day of violation after the day on which
                the opportunity to cure the violation expired; and
                        (4) Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to
                receive notice in the owner's license or permit records, and a copy of the notice shall
                be posted on the property.
                b. Each notice of lien shall be recorded with the respective county recorder.
C. Remedies:
        1. Revocation.
               a. In addition to cases of an uncured violation as set forth above, an ADU permit may
        be revoked if the Zoning Administrator determines:
                         (1) The permit was procured by false representation; or
                         (2) The permit was issued by mistake.
               b. After the written notice of revocation is served no further construction for an ADU
        may continue until a new permit is issued, or the permit is reinstated by the Zoning
        Administrator.
               c. If the permit was issued by mistake, the city shall notify the owner of record of the
        mistake and the actions or changes that must be made to bring the ADU into compliance with
        applicable requirements and ordinances.
               d. For properties where a permit has been revoked for any reason other than a
        mistake, a new or reinstated ADU permit may not be issued except in conformance with
        applicable ordinances, resolutions, regulations, and requirements.
                e. Properties for which an ADU permit has been revoked may be subject to the
        recordation of a notice of non-compliance against the property and shall be prohibited from
        renting, leasing, hiring or loaning the accessory dwelling unit.


                                                     9
2. The city shall have such other remedies as are and may be from time to time provided by Utah law
or city ordinance for the violation of any provision of this title.
3. All remedies pertaining to violations of this chapter are cumulative.




                                                   10
Bluffdale Fireworks Restrictions 2023



                                                                                                                                                   FIREBACK DR
                                                     405
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           13400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1930 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1300 W
                                                                                                              CHATEL DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1775 W
                                                         0
                                                                                                                                                                                                R                                                                                  N
                                                                                                                                                                                         TANA D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13490 S
                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                   AUGUS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HOMESTE AD L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2140 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13550 S
                                                                                                                                                                                SANBORN DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RS
                                                                                                              N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
                                                                                                           YL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     135 9 5 S                                                                  BISON DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2080 W
                                                                                                        D A                                                                                                                                                                                             WESTERN C H AR M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   600
                                                                                                                                                                                                             13640 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                VE
                                                      4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2260 W
                                                                                               LUN                                                                      13680 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                     13660 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DR
                                                                    3870 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LO
                                  4170 W
                                            4100 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rose Creek 13
                                                                                  WA                                                                                                                                                    760 S
                                                                                                          13800 S                                                                                                                                                                                  13800 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13800 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BANGERTER HWY
                                                                                   SA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JORDAN BASIN LN




                                                                                                                                                            KAILYE LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1950 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ve
                                                                                       TC




                                                                                                                                                                                                 2950 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               42
                                                     DEER HILL WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1835 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n
                                                                                        H
                                                                                            V IS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARKETV
         W ATCH M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rda
                                                                                                   TA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IE W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      W
                           EN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BRIDLE WAY                                                                                             14000 S
                           GR E EN F O R D




                                                                                                      D        R                                                                                                 14000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2055 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DR
                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CLYDESDALE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DR
                                AY




                                                                                               3600 W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14095 S




                                                                                                                                                                 Uta




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      141




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   W
                                                                                                                                                                    hL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14150 S                                                                                                                   65




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PK
                                                     FAWN H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S
              S E NT




                                                                                                                                                                        ake
                                                            ILL               LN                                                                                                                                                     14200 S                                                                14200 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C
                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  UM
                                           LN



                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OA
                                                                                                                                                                          istri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LO
                                             D




                                                                                                                      3450 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KE
                 IN E




                                                                                                                                                                                but
                                           O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LC
                                   AR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Y
                                                                                                                                                                                   in




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ZO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FL
                       L




                                                                                                                                                                                 gC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        YA
                                 D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2200 W
                        RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14400 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2400 W 2395 W
                                                                                                                                                                                    ana




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RO
                          DG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2585 W
              RO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                3400 W
                                E




                                     BL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1700 W
                   MA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1010 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                950 W
                           NL              VD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1328 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1515 W
                                 N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OAK P O
                                                                             DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12                                                                                                                                    14600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IN
                                                                      A




                       MCKEL                                                           Pro                                                                               14600 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       00                                                             BLUFFDALE BLVD                                                                           S
                                                                    ST




                                       LEN DR                                                             BOULDEN BLVD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 T
                                                                                          vo
                                                                                               Re                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     855 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    H
                                                                VI




                                                                                                 se




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    830 W
                                                                                                        rvo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IG
                                                                                                              ir C
                                                               AL




                                                                                                                                                                   VERA LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1
                                     M
                                                                                                                                                                                                 28



              NA                           OU
                                                                                                                     an
                                                                                                                        al                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69
                                                        RE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LIFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                       90




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AN
                   SH                             AC                                                                                                                14750 S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOELL NELSON DR
                                 M
                                 N                                                                                                                                                                                                           STATEHOOD DR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              0W
                           LN OU TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Uta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 W




                                                     AD E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AS PEN AV E                                                                                                                                                                           East Jordan Canal
                                NT IN                     MY P
                                                                                                                                         CA S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ha
                                                                                                                        PEL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        14800 S
BILLINGS DR




                                  A I V IE                     K                                                                                                                                                                                                  14850 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nd
                                     N      W                                                                                                                                                    14865 S
                                                                                   S




                                                       O
                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                       VI
                                                                                                                           E




                                                          NN E LN
                                                                                                                                              TL




                                                                                                                                                                                    3030 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        alt




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                          EW NB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MA
                                                                                                          Y

                                                                                                                                LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIO
                                                                                                                                                E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lak
                                            S B HW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    na
                                                                                                                                                   VA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            V ISTA DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e
                                                                                                                                                                                                    WOLFLEY CT




                                               HW Y                                                                                                                                                                                     15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ca
                                                                  15000 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ca
                                                                                                                                                           L LEY DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1800 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               nal
                                                 Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2815 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MOUNT A IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI
                                                                                                                                                                                        2990 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15090 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            rig
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AC



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                     PRINZ LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15170 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ap
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NU T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Dr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              VD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 R
                                                                                                                                                         3200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Y PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H A CK W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15220 S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15250 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FW D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     L




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   D                                                                                                                                                                                                                  G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TA


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         B LV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HE                                           DA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I RO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N H OR S E                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               R                     NT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R             TE                OU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  l        na




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           South Jordan Ca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CIR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E R SE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         V               DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TR A       R  V IEW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RIVE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E          R RO C K W E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LL B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          RT                                              LVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C   K Y AC      C E PO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                900 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    RK R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PA                       D
                                                                                                                                                D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IR
                                                                                                                                              R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BRI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O T RU
                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   UP S S
                                                                                                                                         LO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NG


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LE R D R
                                                                                                                                  OL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CAM

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HU




                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                             D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LN




                                                                                                         WOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RS T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ILLI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        K



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AI R

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          anal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o ck C

                                                                                                              Legend                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Murd
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16580 S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NTA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1825 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1400 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RD

                                                                                            Bluffdale City Boundary                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R RO W                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NA        S                                                                                                                                       NB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DI G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N                                           R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DA                                                                                                                                                                      FW
                                                                                            Fireworks Restricted Area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                JO                                                                                                                                                                                    Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TH



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A     N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S U PP L Y S


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KS
                                                                                            County Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UTES ST                                                                                          PILG M S R OCK                                               IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I L L IAMS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             N                       C E AVE                                                                                                                                                                   G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MA    INTENA                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WYOMING                                                                                                                                             itch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AY
                                                                                            Railroad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEVADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ll   Ri v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  B L UE                                            LV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GR A S S B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       P




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NA N




                                                                                            Waterway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OR E G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Cana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RD




                                                                                                                                                                    BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        uting




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EC




                                                                                                                                                                                EF H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UT




                                                                                                                                                                                             O LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Distrib




                                                                                                                                                                                                           OW
                              FIREWORKS ARE PROHIBITED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I     VE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EILL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    W
                           WITHIN 50 YARDS OF ANY WATERWAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Utah




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 REVEILLE TRAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TU RNBERRY LN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2950 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4180 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ir Canal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H OL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REDW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O K WA Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ervo




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3550 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         26 0 0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Provo Res




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2700 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2600 N                                                            2600 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2550 N 2550 N                      CRAMDE N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S O N WA                                                                                                          2450 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HU D                                                                 DREXLER DR




                                           ±
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4120 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23 60 N                                                                                                             2400 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4000 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2330 N                                      na
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             e   rC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    T AI N VIEW S                                                                                                                                                                          dn
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3600 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UN                                               B HW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Y                                                                                                                        G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2100 N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2100FEMA,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sources: Esri, Airbus DS, USGS, NGA, NASA, CGIAR, N Robinson, NCEAS, NLS, OS, NMA, Geodatastyrelsen, Rijkswaterstaat, GSA, Geoland,
   Updated: June 1, 2021                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Intermap and the GIS user community
                                   RESOLUTION NO. 2023-22
     A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE ADOPTING CERTAIN
   RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF FIREWORKS WITHIN CERTAIN AREAS OF
                             THE CITY
        WHEREAS, current and forecasted prolonged drought, coupled with extremely dry
vegetation throughout Salt Lake County, have created hazardous fire conditions demanding extreme
caution; and
          WHEREAS, minimizing the threat of wildfires and brush fires in the City of Bluffdale is
critical to maintaining public health, safety, welfare, and economic well-being for our citizens; and
        WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Fire Department recently completed wildfire hazard
mitigation surveys through the city; and
      WHEREAS, those surveys identified portions of the city that are at the greatest risk to fast
moving fires impacting structures; and
        NOTWITHSTANDING, the 4TH of July celebrates the founding of America, of which the
celebration typically involves launching of fireworks.
        NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Bluffdale City Council that the use
of any fireworks in the following areas are restricted:
    1. East of and south of the current and proposed Porter Rockwell Blvd including all lands
       bordering the Camp W G Williams Military Reservation.
    2. East of the UTA/Union Pacific Railroad Tracks and north of 14400 South.
    3. Within 50 yards of the Jordan River or any canal within the boundaries of Bluffdale is also
       restricted.
APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON
THIS 24TH DAY OF MAY, 2023 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                        YES       NO    ABSTAIN          ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                                  Attest:
          Natalie C. Hall                                         Deputy City Recorder
