BLUFFDALE CITY                                                                                Mayor Natalie Hall
CITY COUNCIL,                                                                                 Councilmember Wendy Aston
PLANNING COMMISSION &                                                                         Councilmember Traci Crockett
                                                                                              Councilmember Jeff Gaston
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY                                                                          Councilmember Mark Hales
COMBINED MEETING AGENDA                                                                       Councilmember Dave Kallas
City Council Chambers
Wednesday, January 12, 2022, at 6:00 p.m.

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council, Bluffdale City Planning Commission, and the Redevelopment Agency
Board will hold a combined meeting on Wednesday, January 12, 2022, at Bluffdale City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South,
Bluffdale, Utah. The meeting will begin at 6:00 PM or as soon thereafter as possible. This meeting will also be broadcast live
to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. The public may comment at the meeting or by emailing comments to
councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com by 4:00 PM the day of the meeting. Emailed comments will be submitted to the
City Council but will not be read at the meeting. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by the City Council may
be by electronic means.
In the event the meeting is disrupted in any way that the City in its sole discretion deems inappropriate, the City reserves the
right to immediately remove the individual(s) from the meeting and, if needed, end virtual access to the meeting. Reasons
for removing an individual or ending virtual access to the meeting include but are not limited to the posting of offensive
pictures, remarks, or making offensive statements, disrespectful statements or actions, and other any action deemed
inappropriate.
BLUFDALE CITY COUNCIL AND PLANNING COMMISSION JOINT WORK SESSION 6:00 P.M. (The work session is
for identifying future items and other council discussion. In accordance with Utah Code § 52-4-201(2)(a), while the meeting
may be open to the public, there will not be any opportunity for public input during the work session).
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call).
2.    Discussion/Presentation Items:
      2.1   Discussion of 2022 Economic Development Strategic Plan. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
      2.2   Training on Robert’s Rules and Open and Public Meetings Act. (Staff presenter Todd Sheeran)
3.    Council Discussion:
4.    Adjournment.
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
1.    Call to Order: (Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*).
2.    Minute and Agenda Approval:
      2.1   December 8, 2021, City Council, LBA & RDA Combined Meeting.
      2.2   Approval of this meeting’s agenda.
3.    Mayor and Council Reports:
4.    Public Comment: (This is a time and place for any person who wishes to comment on items not scheduled on the
      agenda for public hearing. Any person or group wishing to comment on any item not otherwise scheduled for public
      hearing on the agenda may address the City Council at this point by stepping to the microphone and giving his or her
      name for the record or by emailing councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Comments should be limited to not
      more than four (4) minutes, unless additional time is authorized by the Chair. Groups wishing to comment will be
      asked to appoint a spokesperson. Items brought forward to the attention of the City Council will be turned over to
      staff to provide a response outside of the City Council meeting.)
5.    Presentation Items:



City Council Meeting – January 12, 2022                                                                             Page 1 of 3
      5.1   Continued from Work Session Item 2.2, Training on Robert’s Rules and Open and Public Meetings
            Act. (Staff presenter Todd Sheeran)
6.    Consent Agenda: (These items are considered by the City Council to be routine and will be enacted by a single
      motion. If discussion is desired on any particular consent item, that item may be removed from the consent agenda
      and considered separately. No public comment will be permitted.)
      6.1   Resolution No. 2022-01, Authorizing the City of Bluffdale and the Utah Department of Transportation
            to enter into a Corridor Agreement pertaining to Porter Rockwell Boulevard.
7.    Public Hearing Items: (Public comments must abide by the requirements listed above).
      7.1   None.
8.    Action or Discussion Items; Items Continued from Previous Meeting: (These items are considered by the City
      Council individually. No public comment will be permitted.)
      8.1   Resolution No. 2022-05, Adopting a code of conduct and parliamentary procedure policy. (Staff
            presenter Todd Sheeran)
      8.2   Resolution No. 2022-02, Designating the appointment of a Mayor Pro Tempore for 2022. (By Mayor
            Natalie Hall)
      8.3   Resolution No. 2022-03, Appointing statutory officers, City Treasurer and City Recorder. (By Mayor
            Natalie Hall)
      8.4   Resolution No. 2022-04, Designating a representative for the City of Bluffdale at the Association of
            Municipal Councils. (By Mayor Natalie Hall)
      8.5   Ordinance No. 2022-01, (tabled from November 17, 2021) a Zoning Map and Text Amendment
            Application, which proposes amendments to the Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinance, Title 11, Chapter
            11.110.120, Special Purpose and Overlay Zones, to create a new zoning ordinance chapter and map
            designation from Mixed Use to SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale, Special District for 236 residential
            apartment units along with various commercial uses for approximately 6.7 acres, applicant, LH Perry
            Investments, LLC. (Staff presenter Grant Crowell)
      8.6   Resolution No. 2022-06, (tabled from November 17, 2021) a proposed Development Agreement
            pertaining to the development of property located at approximately 533 West 14600 South, also
            known as the Centrum at Bluffdale, Special District, applicant, LH Perry Investments, LLC. (Staff
            presenter Grant Crowell)
      8.7   Ordinance No. 2022-02, (tabled from December 8, 2021) a General Plan Land Use Map Amendment
            Application for 5.59 acres, located at approximately 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West, from Very Low
            Density Residential to Commercial, applicant, D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC. (Staff presenter
            Jennifer Robison)
      8.8   Ordinance No. 2022-03, (tabled from December 8, 2021) a Zoning Map Amendment Application for
            5.59 acres, located at approximately 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West, from R-1-43 Residential to GC-
            1 General Commercial, applicant, D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC. (Staff presenter Jennifer
            Robison)
      8.9   Resolution No. 2022-07, (tabled from December 8, 2021) a proposed Development Agreement to
            modify various requirements in the GC-1 General Zone for the Tri-City Center developmental
            proposed by D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC property, located at 13855 and 13937 South 2950
            West. (Staff presenter Jennifer Robison)
BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
     a. Call to Order: (Roll Call).


City Council Meeting – January 12, 2022                                                                     Page 2 of 3
      b. Discussion/Presentation/Action Items:
            i.    RDA Resolution No. 2022-01, Clarifying the extension dates of the tax increment collection
                  period for the Bluffdale Gateway RDA Project Area due to the COVID-19 pandemic emergency.
                  (Staff presenter Bruce Kartchner)
      c. RDA Discussion:
      d. Adjournment.
CONTINUATION OF CITY COUNCIL BUSINESS MEETING
9.     Staff Reports and Calendaring Items:
10.    Closed Meetings - if any: (This meeting will be closed to the public for one of the stated purposes found in Utah Code
       § 52-4-205(1), which is usually for one of the following purposes: discussion of the character, professional competence,
       or physical or mental health of an individual; discuss collective bargaining; discuss pending or reasonably imminent
       litigation; discuss the purchase, exchange, sale, or lease of real property, including water rights or water shares).
11.    Adjournment.


                                                 CERTIFICATE OF POSTING
I hereby certify that the foregoing notice and agenda was submitted to the South Valley Journal, the Salt Lake Tribune, and
the Deseret News; posted at the Bluffdale City Hall and on the City’s website (www.bluffdale.com), delivered to each member
of the Bluffdale City Council; and posted on the Utah State Public Notice website (www.pmn.utah.gov).


Published and posted on January 7, 2022.



                                                              Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                              City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation
for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
*Contact the City Recorder if you desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.




City Council Meeting – January 12, 2022                                                                            Page 3 of 3
                           Bluffdale City Council
               2022 Strategic Plan for Economic Development


Purpose:

   ●   To identify and define specific economic development goals, objectives, and strategies
       for the City
   ●   To use information and data to strategically prioritize economic development activity,
       from both a City perspective and a citizen perspective
   ●   To prioritize economic development activities to efficiently utilize City resources
   ●   To set measurable goals regarding achieving stated objectives
   ●   To obtain direction, guidance, and support from the City Council to staff and Planning
       Commission to help accomplish economic development goals of the city
   ●   To adapt to changing economic conditions and priorities, and to update the plan
       accordingly
   ●   To educate the development community regarding the City’s priorities to create an
       effective partnership
   ●   To utilize a regular sub-committee to discuss Economic Development progress and
       alignment with the City’s goals
Transportation & Infrastructure
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements

Objective:
Invest in and prioritize transportation, active transportation, and infrastructure projects/programs
that will facilitate economic development activities.

Strategy 1: Complete a 14600 South Master Plan
Goal: Develop and complete a master plan that shows the future vision for the corridor from I-15
to Redwood Road, and which identifies short and long-term projects to achieve the master plan.
The Master Plan should have specific projects that need to be completed to achieve the final
plan.
Measurement: By February 28, 2022, have the plan completed from the trestle east to I-15 and
presented to the City Council;
by December 2023, complete corridor study from the Trestle west to Redwood Road.

Strategy 2: Develop and implement strategies that support a future I-15 interchange adjacent to
Point Crossing
Goal: Focus on the development of a new I-15 interchange by engaging property owners,
regional planning agencies, UDOT, lobbyists, committees, and elected officials.
Measurement: Status report by December 31, 2022

Strategy 3: Analyze options for increased broadband internet in the community
Goal: Evaluate pros/cons of city-wide fiber installation options and the potential costs to the City
and to citizens.
Measurement: Report to Council with findings and recommendations by December 31, 2022

Strategy 4: Complete a comprehensive update to the City’s Trails and Active Transportation
Plan
Goal: To improve mobility, safety, and quality of life and to prioritize which projects to devote
limited resources to.
Measurement: Fund consulting budget by July 1, 2022
Planning & Zoning
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements

Objective:
Develop and/or enhance city plans to guide economic growth and development

Strategy 1: Follow up on any recommended ordinance or policy development changes adopted
in the 2022 General Plan or the Economic Development Strategic Plan
Goal: Develop ordinances and policies in accordance with adopted plans
Measurement: Complete necessary ordinance development which implements plan
recommendations by December 31, 2022

Strategy 2: Ensure zoning along key corridors and gateway nodes reflects the city’s economic
development goals
Goal: Update zoning and allowed uses at gateway nodes and key corridors, as necessary so
that zoning aligns with economic development goals and to assure that landowners and
developers understand our goals early on
Measurement: By December 31, 2022, complete zoning changes recommended by the 2022
General Plan
Marketing, Branding, Image
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements

Objective:
Promote a positive public image that is attractive to residents and commercial investment and
enhances Bluffdale’s desirability. Public image should create a sense of place, be consistent
with adopted branding standards, and let those entering the city through a Gateway easily
recognize that they are in Bluffdale.

Strategy 1: Rename key streets to improve recognition and enhance key areas.
Goal: Complete branding of 2700 W business corridor between Bangerter Highway and 14000
South.
Measurement: Complete renaming/re-branding of corridor by December 31, 2022.

Strategy 2: Construct gateway monuments with signage in key City entries
Goal: Provide funding and authorization for professional design and construction of monument
features and electronic messaging / signage in identified gateways
Measurement: By July 1, 2022, designate and fund at least one location

Strategy 3: Have a modern and robust communication program to provide regular updates and
relevant information to residents and businesses using various forms of media.
Goal: Prepare recommendations for the City’s communication program and acquire necessary
resources
Measurement: Hire new communications position by April 1, 2022. New Staff to present any
necessary budget requests for FY 22-23, approved by July 1, 2022

Strategy 4: Survey the community regarding economic development and fiscal impact concerns
and preferences. Complete a survey on a recurring time table or when major economic
development milestones have been achieved.
Goal: To identify trends, desires, and achievable economic development outcomes from the
public’s perspective
Measurement: Fund a statistically significant citizen survey by outside consultant by July 1,
2022
Economic Development and Business-Friendly Processes
Objectives, Strategies, Goals & Measurements


Objective:
Enhance economic development functions and tools within the city to strengthen our focus and
provide necessary resources to achieve goals. Create a business-friendly environment through
streamlined processes and updated codes and regulations.

Strategy 1: Set clear priorities or ranked preferences to focus limited resources on achieving
economic development goals that are supported by community attributes
Goal: Develop ranked preference list for types of economic development activities to encourage
or incentivize, using categories such as: sales tax revenue, assessed value growth, community
service provision, targeted service sectors, jobs, incubators, industrial and manufacturing, traffic
generators, external impacts, community compatibility
Measurement: By July 1, 2022, develop an economic development priority matrix

Strategy 2: Have strategies and plans for targeted use of RDA funds and available incentives
Goal: Establish written priorities and evaluative criteria for RDA participation, evaluate fund
balances and agency financial obligations twice annually.
Measurement: Evaluate funds, obligations and adopt adopt a RDA policy resolution by October
1, 2022

Strategy 3: Continuously work toward facilitating targeted businesses or industries
Goal: Communicate project wins and potential opportunities in regular emails or at meetings, as
the case may be
Measurement: Throughout the year provide regular updates on ongoing efforts and action items
to the economic development committee or City Council via email

Strategy 5: Maximize development of City owned parcels on Redwood Road pursuant to
preferred economic development outcomes
Goal: Determine approach for property ownership, marketing, and infrastructure to achieve
goals and preferred timelines
Measurement: Approve development scenario approach and timeline by July 1, 2022
Accomplishments (or substantial completion) since Plan inception
   ● 14600 S pre-environmental Trestle Study Completed and presented to Council
   ● Initial funding for trestle received from legislature, $20M
   ● 14600 South (east of trestle) study budgeted and nearing completion
   ● General Plan funded and nearing completion, early 2022
   ● Audited and reported on UDOT and UTA long range plans, 1/2021
   ● Adopted updated sign code
   ● Reported on and studied Form-Based Codes
   ● Adopted updated design standards in GC-1 zone and City-wide
   ● Renamed 14600 S to Bluffdale Blvd (commemorative)
   ● Renamed Camp Williams Road to Redwood Road
   ● Completed City Branding Guide, including street signs
   ● Continued Economic Development emphasis to all employees
   ● Evaluated Community and Economic Development dept. staffing needs
   ● Implemented Iworq online portal for public works, fleet, building and engineering
     permitting and business licensing
   ● Re-organized and re-assigned business licensing dept
   ● Adopted updated business license code
   ● Adopted updated alcohol licensing code to facilitate additional retail licenses
   ● Adopted transportation impact fee reduction for non-residential development approved
     June 9, 2021
   ● Presented RDA Training and funding priorities to agency in 2020 and 2021
   ● Completed and marketed professional supermarket location analysis
   ● Discovered and followed up with multiple grocer leads
                     CODE OF CONDUCT AND PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURES



I.    INTRODUCTION

The Bluffdale City Council believes that all public servants need to maintain the highest standards
of ethical conduct. Of similar importance, there is an increasing expectation that public meetings
are conducted in a democratic manner. This policy is designed to describe the manner in which
the council should conduct themselves as a public servant. It also provides the parliamentary
procedure for meetings of the city council. While this policy is directed for city council members,
it shall also apply to city commissions, boards, and committees. This policy will refer to members
of the city council, including the mayor, as “members”.

II.   CODE OF CONDUCT

Elected and appointed officials are individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds, personalities,
values, opinions, and goals. Despite this diversity, all have chosen to serve in public office in order
to preserve and protect the present and the future of the community. In all cases, the council shall
comply with the below guidelines.

      A. Compliance with Ethics Act. Members shall comply with all provisions of the Municipal
          Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act found in Utah Code § 10-3-1301 et seq.

      B. Mayoral Role. It is the responsibility of the mayor (as the chair) to keep the comments of
          the members and the public on track during public meetings. Members should honor
          efforts by the chair to focus discussion on current agenda items. If there is disagreement
          about the agenda or the chair’s actions, those objections should be voiced politely and
          with reason, following procedures outlined in parliamentary procedures below.

      C. Conduct of the Members. The professional and personal conduct of the members while
          exercising their office must be above reproach and avoid even the appearance of
          impropriety. Members shall refrain from abusive conduct, personal charges, or verbal
          attacks upon the character or motives of others.

      D. Discussions and Debate. Difficult questions, tough challenges to a particular point of
          view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements of debate by a free
          democracy in action. Free debate does not require nor justify, however, members to
          make belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging
          comments.


                                                        Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                              Page 1
   E. Conduct at Public Meetings. Making the public feel welcome is an important part of the
        democratic process. No signs of partiality, prejudice, or disrespect should be evident on
        the part of a member towards an individual participating in a public forum. Every effort
        should be made to be fair and impartial in listening to public comment.

   F. Confidential Information. Members shall maintain the confidentiality of all written
        materials and verbal information provided to members which is confidential or
        privileged, including items discussed in a closed meeting. Members shall neither disclose
        confidential information without proper authorization, nor use such information to
        advance their personal, financial, or other private interests.

   G. Conduct with Staff. Governance of the city relies on the cooperative efforts of elected
        officials, appointed officials, and city staff. Therefore, every effort should be made to be
        cooperative and show mutual respect for the contributions made by everyone for the
        good of the community.

   H. Positive Workplace Environment. Members shall support the maintenance of a positive
        and constructive workplace environment for staff and for citizens and businesses dealing
        with the city. Members shall recognize their special role in dealings with city employees
        to in no way create the perception of inappropriate direction to staff.

   I.   Sanctions. A member who intentionally and repeatedly do not follow proper conduct
        may be reprimanded or formally censured by the city council, lose assignments (both
        within the city and with other agencies) or other privileges afforded by the city council.
        Serious infractions of the Code of Conduct could lead to other sanctions as deemed
        appropriate by the city council.

III. PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.

   A. Pattern of Meetings. Councils usually follow a fixed pattern in conducting their meetings.
        The order is arranged for convenience and enables members to know in advance when
        each type of business will be considered. The order of business is at the discretion of the
        mayor.

   B. Agenda. Pursuant to BCC § 1.60.020.E., a written agenda for each regular meeting is
        prepared by the city manager. If any member desires to add an item or items to any
        prepared agenda, then written consent must be obtained from two members or from the
        mayor alone. Upon receiving the proper request from either two members or from the
        mayor, the city manager will add or delete items to the agendas as requested. A majority
        vote is needed to delete an item from an agenda, which can be done before or during a
        council meeting.

   C. Discussing Agenda Items. A member obtains the floor in the same manner as he does to
        propose a motion. Once a member has been recognized by the chair for the purpose of

                                                      Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                            Page 2
    a statement, that person must be protected in his right to speak, so long as he observes
    the rules of decorum and confines his/her remarks to the subject. Debate is restricted to
    the measure under consideration, and neither its proposer nor his motives can be
    discussed. The rules of debate require that all discussion be impersonal and that it be
    addressed to the chair.

D. How Motions Are Handled. In a broad sense a motion is a formal statement of a proposal
    for the governing body to consider and vote upon. It is well to become familiar with the
    steps of handling a motion and with their phraseology. Only after these mechanics of a
    motion become second nature can one concentrate on the content of the motion. The
    following are the steps in handling a motion:

    1   Addressing the Chair. Any member of the council may propose a motion. A member
        may do this at any appropriate time. To present a motion, a member addresses the
        chair by his/her official title; for example: “Mayor Smith”. Addressing the chair is
        equivalent to requesting permission to present a motion or to discuss a motion
        already presented.

    2   Recognition by the Chair. The chair recognizes a member by calling their name, or by
        nodding to them, or by designating that person in some other way. As soon as the
        chair recognizes a member, that member is entitled to the undivided attention of the
        council while that person proposes or discusses a motion.

    3   Proposing a Motion. A motion is a proposal that the assembly take certain actions. It
        is always stated in the form: “I move …” followed by the proposal to be considered.
        This is the correct form for proposing a motion because it establishes, as a motion,
        the proposal which follows. Such introductory phrases as “I suggest,” or “I move
        you,” or “I so move,” may get the desired result, but are not good form. Motions
        should be made in the positive and not in the negative. A correct example is “I move
        to approve …” not “I move to deny …”

    4   Seconding a Motion. After a member has proposed a motion, it is then in order for
        another member to second the motion. The seconding member says: “I second the
        motion.” If the chair does not hear a second to a motion, the chair should ask, “Is
        there a second to the motion that …” and repeat the motion, since it may be that
        some of the members have not understood its meaning. If no second is forthcoming,
        the mayor declares the motion “lost for want of a second.” Seconding a motion
        means that the seconder wishes to have the motion presented to the assembly for
        consideration. It does not necessarily imply that the seconder favors the motion or
        intends to vote for it. Requirement of a motion and a second is based on the belief
        that at least two members should be interested in the discussion of a proposition
        before a motion is presented to the assembly.



                                                Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                      Page 3
    5   Statement of Motion by the Chair. As soon as a motion has been properly moved and
        seconded, it is the duty of the chair to state the motion promptly to the council. Until
        the chair has done so, the motion is under the control of its maker and can be
        withdrawn or modified by him as he wishes. Once the motion has been stated to the
        council, it is in the possession of the body to do with it as it chooses. If a motion is
        proposed in a form which is misleading, vague, or overly complicated, it is the duty
        of the chair to request the member to rephrase the motion. If the chair rephrases the
        motion, the chair should make sure that the meaning is not changed. The chair
        should ask the member whether the rephrased motion, as stated to the council,
        expresses the proposal correctly. If a motion proposes action which is contrary to
        law, rules, is obviously dilatory (that is, made for the purpose of delaying business),
        or is completely unsuitable for the consideration of the council, the chair should rule
        it out of order. The chair may say, “The chair rules your motion out of order,” and
        state the reason for so doing.

    6   Voting on a Motion. When it appears that all members who wish to discuss the
        question have done so, the chair may inquire: “Is there any further discussion?” or
        “Are you ready for the vote?” This query gives notice that debate is about to close,
        and that if any member wishes to claim the floor, they should do so immediately. If
        no one claims the floor, the chair, after a pause, puts the question to vote. The
        announcement of the vote by the chair is the last step in the production line which
        has carried the motion from its introduction by an individual member to its disposal
        by vote of the council.

E. The Precedence And Classification Of Motions. The rank of motions, which is called
    “precedence,” keeps the business of the meeting going with efficiency, and every motion
    is attended to in its proper turn. The order of precedence of motions is based on the
    degree of their urgency; and it is logical and easy to understand. The following is a list of
    the more important motions, arranged in the order of their precedence are listed in the
    table below.

    1   Four Types of Motions.

        a    Main Motions. This group is made up of motions which bring subjects (as
             contrasted with procedural questions) before the council for decision. These
             motions constitute the principal business of a meeting. They are the most
             important of all motions because they bring the main business before the
             meeting.

        b    Subsidiary Motions. This group is made up of seven motions which are
             alternative methods of changing or disposing of the main motion. Their name
             derives from the fact that they are subsidiary to the main motion and, therefore,
             can be proposed only when a main motion is before the council. If a main


                                                  Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                        Page 4
        motion is pending and some members do not wish to vote on it directly at the
        time, they have several choices as to how the motion may be modified or
        disposed of. For example, one member may believe that it is an unsuitable
        motion for the council to consider and may move to postpone it indefinitely.
        Another may think that the motion should be changed so that it conforms more
        closely to the ideas of the council and may move to amend it.

    c   Incidental Motions. The motions of this group arise incidentally out of the
        business that is before the council. In general, they are concerned with the rights
        and privileges of members. They have only a few characteristics in common.
        The purpose of this group of motions is to handle procedural problems which
        arise out of the consideration of other questions. These problems, naturally,
        must be settled before consideration can be given to the question out of which
        they arise. Incidental motions are not included in the list of precedence because
        they may be proposed at any time and must be decided whenever they arise.
        Therefore, they present no problem of precedence.

    d   Privileged Motions. This small group is composed of motions which are so
        important that they are given privileges not accorded to other motion. They are,
        in effect, main motions that, because of their urgency, must be decided before
        the pending question. They relate to the members and to the council rather
        than to the main motion.

2   Rules of Precedence. The chief purpose of dividing motions into four groups is to
    determine their rank or precedence. This rank is fixed and definite and is based on
    logical reasoning. It is simple to understand and to apply. It is not necessary to
    memorize the precedence of the important motions. Practice in using them will
    soon fix their rank in your mind because their order is so logical that they could not
    be effectively arranged in any radically different way. There are two important rules
    of precedence: 1. When a motion is pending, any motion of a higher rank may be
    proposed, but no motion of lower rank is in order. The motion to adjourn (No. 1) has
    the highest rank, and a main motion (No. 11) has the lowest. If a main motion (No.
    11) is pending, any motion of higher rank (No. 10 to 1) can be proposed. If No. 8 is
    pending, No. 7 to No. 1 can all be proposed, but No. 9 or No. 10 cannot. 2. Motions
    are considered and voted upon in inverse order to the order of their proposal, the
    last one proposed being considered and disposed of first. For example, if motions
    No. 11, 10, 7 and 2 were proposed in that order, they would be considered and voted
    upon in the following order: No. 2, 7, 10 and 11.




                                            Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                  Page 5
IV. PRINCIPAL RULES GOVERNING MOTIONS

Order of Precedence                     Can Interrupt   Requires a   Debatable?     Amendable?           Vote Required?
                                        Speaker?        Second?
Privileged Motions (Top Priority)
   1. Adjourn                           No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   2. Recess                            No              Yes          No             Yes                  Majority
   3. Question of Privilege             Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
Subsidiary Motions (Second Priority)
   4. Postpone Temporarily              No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   5. Vote Immediately                  No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   6. Limit Debate                      No              Yes          No             Yes                  Two-thirds
   7. Postpone Definitely               No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   8. Refer to Committee                No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   9. Amend or Substitute               No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   10. Postpone Indefinitely            No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Main Motions (Last Priority)
   11. General Main Motion              No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Incidental Motions (Resolve immediately)
    12. Appeal                           Yes            Yes          Yes            No                   Tie or Majority
   13. Point of Order                   Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   14. Parliamentary Inquiry            Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   15. Withdraw a Motion                No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   16. Suspend Rules                    No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   17. Object to Consideration          Yes             No           No             No                   Two-thirds
   18. Division of a Question           No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   19. Division of Assembly             Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote



                                                                                  Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                                                        Page 6
V.   DEFINITIONS

     ADJOURN: To terminate a meeting officially.

     ADOPT: To approve, to give effect to.

     AFFIRMATIVE VOTE: A “yes” or “aye” vote to a question before a council; an agreement to its
     acceptance.

     AGENDA: The official list of business to be considered at a meeting.

     AMEND: To change, by adding, deleting, or substituting works or provisions.

     ANNUL: To void or cancel an action previously taken.

     APPEAL: A decision of the presiding officer may be appealed from. An appeal requires that the
     decision be referred to the council for its determination by a vote.

     DEBATABLE: Capable of being discussed.

     DIVISION OF QUESTION: Separation of a main motion into two or more independent parts,
     each of which is capable of standing alone.

     GENERAL CONSENT: An informal method of disposing of routine and generally favored
     proposals by the chairman assuming the group’s approval, unless objection is raised. Also
     called “unanimous consent.”

     INCIDENTAL MOTIONS: Motions relating to questions that arise incidentally out of the
     business, or order or manner of considering the business of a council.

     LIMIT DEBATE: To place restrictions on the time to be devoted to debate on a question or the
     number of speakers or the time allotted each.

     MAIN MOTION: A motion presenting a subject to a council for discussion and decision.

     NEW BUSINESS: Any business other than unfinished or “old business” that may properly be
     brought before a council.

     OBJECT TO CONSIDERATION: To oppose discussion and decision of a main motion.

     ORDER OF BUSINESS: The formal program of sequence of different items or classes of
     business arranged in the order in which they are to be considered.

     ORDINANCE: Law made by the legislative body of a municipality.



                                                      Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                            Page 7
PENDING QUESTION: A question, or motion, before the council which has not yet been voted
upon.

POINT OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE: A challenge to a speaker to defend or apologize for
comments that a fellow member considers offensive.

POSTPONE TEMPORARILY: To defer consideration of a motion until the council chooses to
take it up again. The old form of the motion was “lay on the table.”

PRECEDENCE: The right of prior proposal and consideration of one motion over another, or
the order or priority of consideration.

PRIVILEGED MOTIONS: The class of motions having the highest priority.

QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE: Request or motion affecting the comfort or convenience of the
council or one of its members.

RECONSIDER: Motion to cancel the effect of a vote so that the question may be reviewed and
redecided.

REFER TO COMMITTEE: Motion to delegate work to a small group of members for study,
decision or action.

RESUME CONSIDERATION: To take up for consideration a motion that has been tabled. The
old form of the motion was “take from the table.”

SPECIAL COMMITTEE: A committee appointed to accomplish a particular task and to submit
a special report. It ceases to exist when its task is completed.

SPECIAL MEETING: A meeting called to consider certain specific business that must be set
forth in the call.

STANDING COMMITTEE: A committee to handle all business on a certain subject that may be
referred to it, and usually having a term of service corresponding to the term of office of the
officers of the organization.

TABLE TO A TIME CERTAIN: To defer consideration of a motion or report until a specific time.

TABLE TO A TIME UNCERTAIN: To postpone a motion until a later, but as yet undetermined,
time.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS: Any business deferred by a motion to postpone to a definite time, or
any business that was incomplete when the previous meeting adjourned. Unfinished
business has a preferred status at the following meeting.



                                                 Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                       Page 8
VIVA VOCE VOTE: A vote taken by calling for “ayes” and “noes” and judged by volume of voice
response. Sometimes called “voice vote.”

VOTE IMMEDIATELY: Motion to close debate, shut off subsidiary motion and take a vote at
once.

WITHDRAW: Motion by a member to remove his motion from consideration by the council.




                                               Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                     Page 9
                                        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                        LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD
                                     REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                       COMBINED MEETING AGENDA
                                      Wednesday, December 08, 2021
Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council, the Local Building Authority, and the Redevelopment Agency Board will hold a
combined meeting Wednesday, December 8, 2021, at the Bluffdale City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah scheduled to begin
promptly at 6:00 p.m. or as soon thereafter as possible. This meeting will also be broadcast live to the public at: www.bluffdale.com. The
public may comment at the meeting or by emailing comments to councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com. Notice is further given that
access to this meeting by the Mayor and or City Council may be by electronic means via telephonic conference call.

WORK SESSION 6:00 P.M. – (The work session is for identifying future items and other council discussion. In
accordance with Utah Code § 52-4-201(2)(a), while the meeting may be open to the public, there will not be any
opportunity for public input during the work session).
 1. Roll Call
 2. Presentations –
    a. Discussion related to the Point Framework Plan, presenter, Alan Matheson.
    b. Discussion related to residential parking ratios, staff presenter, Grant Crowell.
 3. Council Discussion
BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 7:00 P.M.
 1. Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance*
 2. PUBLIC FORUM – (4-minute maximum per person to bring items not already on the agenda before the
    Council. Participants are encouraged to submit a written statement (1 copy) for items that are complex or
    that may require more than 4 minutes to present). Additionally, comments for this item and all Public
    Hearing items may be submitted via email to: councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com.
 3. CONSENT AGENDA –
    3.1 Approval of the November 16, 2021, Board of Canvassers Meeting Minutes.
    3.2 Approval of the November 17, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes.
    3.3 Approval of Resolution No. 2021-53, appointing Planning Commission Members.
    3.4 Approval of Resolution No. 2021-56, authorizing staff to use a template agreement for
        telecommunications franchises.
    3.5 Approval of Resolution No. 2021-57, authorizing the surplus of City-owned property.
    3.6 Approval of Resolution No. 2021-58, setting the 2022 Annual Meeting Schedule for the City Council,
        Planning Commission, and other City Boards and Committees.
 4. Presentation and consideration of Resolution No. 2021-59, expressing gratitude to Mayor Derk P. Timothy,
    presenter, Mayor Pro Tem Wendy Aston.
 5. Presentation and consideration of the 2020-2021 Fiscal Year Audit Report, Hansen Bradshaw, Malmrose &
    Erickson, presenter, Jeff Miles. (Joint consideration of Audit: City Council, Local Building Authority &
    Redevelopment Agency Board)
 6. PUBLIC HEARING - Consideration and vote on Ordinance No. 2021-23, a General Plan Land Use Map
    Amendment Application for 5.59 acres, located at approximately 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West, from Very
    Low Density Residential to Commercial, applicant, D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC., staff presenter,
    Jennifer Robison.
 7. PUBLIC HEARING - Consideration and vote on Ordinance No. 2021-24, a Zoning Map Amendment Application
    for 5.59 acres, located at approximately 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West, from R-1-43 Residential to GC-1
    General Commercial, applicant, D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC., staff presenter, Jennifer Robison.
 8. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-54, a proposed Development Agreement
    to modify various requirements in the GC-1 General Zone for the Tri-City Center developmental proposed by
    D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC property, located at 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West, staff presenter,
    Jennifer Robison.
LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD MEETING
    1. Roll Call
    2. Presentation and consideration of the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year Audit Report, Hansen, Bradshaw, Malmrose &
       Erickson. (Regular Business Meeting – Agenda Item 5)
    3. Adjournment
BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
    1. Roll Call
    2. Presentation and consideration of the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year Audit Report, Hansen, Bradshaw, Malmrose &
       Erickson. (Regular Business Meeting – Agenda Item 5)
    3. Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-06, extending the tax increment collection period in the
       Bluffdale Gateway RDA Project Area, due to the COVID-19 restrictions, staff presenter, Bruce Kartchner.
    4. Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-07, extending the tax increment collection period in the
       Eastern Bluffdale Economic Development Project Area, due to the COVID-19 restrictions, Bruce Kartchner.
    5. Consideration and vote on Resolution No. 2021-08, extending the tax increment collection period in the
       Jordan Narrows Economic Development Project Area, due to the COVID-19 restrictions, Bruce Kartchner.
CONTINUATION OF BUSINESS MEETING
 9. Mayor’s Report
 10. City Manager’s Report and Discussion
 11. Closed meeting pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205(1) to discuss the character, professional competence, or
     health of an individual, collective bargaining, pending or imminent litigation, strategies to discuss real
     property acquisition, including any form of a water right or water shares, security issues, or any alleged
     criminal misconduct (if needed).
 12. Adjournment
Dated: December 03, 2021
I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING NOTICE AND AGENDA WAS FAXED TO THE SOUTH VALLEY JOURNAL, THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNE, AND
THE DESERET NEWS; POSTED AT THE BLUFFDALE CITY HALL, EMAILED OR DELIVERED TO EACH MEMBER OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL;
ON THE CITY’S WEBSITE AT WWW.BLUFFDALE.COM AND ON THE PUBLIC MEETING NOTICE WEBSITE, WWW.PMN.UTAH.GOV




                                                                   Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                                   City Recorder
In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this meeting
should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1. *Contact the City Recorder if you
desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of Allegiance.
                               DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   Present:        Mayor Derk Timothy
 2                   Wendy Aston (arrived at 6:17 p.m.)
 3                   Traci Crockett
 4                   Jeff Gaston
 5                   Mark Hales
 6                   Dave Kallas
 7
 8   Staff:          Mark Reid, City Manager
 9                   Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director
10                   Todd Sheeran, City Attorney
11                   Courtney Armstrong, Accounting Technician
12                   Michael Fazio, City Engineer
13                   Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director
14                   Shane Paddock, Public Works Director
15                   Jennifer Robison, Senior City Planner
16                   Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
17
18   Others:         Alan Matheson, Executive Director Point of the Mountain
19                   Natalie Hall, Mayor-Elect
20                   Tamra Timothy, Wife of Mayor Timothy
21
22   Mayor Timothy called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
23
24   WORK SESSION
25
26   1.       Roll Call.
27
28   All members of the City Council were present with the exception of Wendy Aston who arrived a short
29   time later.
30
31   2.       Presentations.
32
33            a.     Discussion Related to the Point Framework Plan. Presenter, Alan Matheson.
34
35   Alan Matheson, Point of the Mountain State Land Authority Executive Director, presented an
36   overview and update on the Point of the Mountain Project that is now nationally recognized. The
37   Point of the Mountain State Land Authority was created by statute and given the directive to create a
38   project that will benefit the community and the State. It operates under an 11-person board that
39   includes the Lieutenant Governor and Representative Lowry Snow as Co-Chairs. There are four


                                                      1
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   legislators, 2 mayors, heads of state agencies, the Commissioner of Higher Education, and individuals
 2   with private sector real estate experience. The board was established by statute to ensure that the
 3   project includes all possible elements that have been discussed in previous meetings. They adopted
 4   Guiding Standards to keep the project in accordance with the desired outcome, the first of which is to
 5   promote the public interest.
 6
 7   One of the main objectives is to provide a return to the community in terms of quality of life as well
 8   as an economic return by creating a model community. Concerns about growth have increased
 9   dramatically over the last several years, including concerns about traffic, air quality, and the cost of
10   housing. They are interested in growing in thoughtful ways with a long-term vision. Because it is an
11   enormous project, they want to involve as many people as possible. All information is online and
12   accessible to the public. They have received input from over 10,000 individuals over the last several
13   years. While it is not possible to please everyone, the goal is to listen to and address the most pressing
14   concerns to create a vibrant, mixed-use, interesting community that is active and has a great
15   transportation system. It should include future-focused transportation that minimizes the need for
16   vehicles on the site, job creation at the highest level, and innovation that allows research to create jobs
17   and solve problems.
18
19   The planning team, which consists of Skidmore, Owings, & Merrill, took the ideas and put them into
20   a Framework Plan to guide the desired outcome. This will be the country’s newest 15-minute City,
21   meaning access to day-to-day needs within a 15-minute walk of the center of the site. Some of the
22   key connections to the existing trail systems and features include the River Deranged Trail that
23   connects the Jordan River Parkway over I-15 into the regional trails and the Corner Canyon Trails,
24   and several parks and nature areas. The municipal planning standard is to have a park within a 10-
25   minute walk of residents. The proposed plan provides a park and open space within a two-minute
26   walk of every resident and employee.
27
28   An area will be designated for an institutional anchor. They are working with the Utah System of
29   Higher Education to develop an innovation district with lab space, workspace, and research
30   opportunities to facilitate innovation. There will be a transportation system within the project with a

                                                         2
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

1    mix of residential, commercial, office, retail, and entertainment. Mr. Matheson presented the transit
2    system that will connect to the road system. He reported that they are working with the Utah Transit
3    Authority (“UTA”) and other transportation agencies to maximize ridership. They coined the term
 4   ‘One-Car Community’ for this project, meaning that members of the community will need only one
 5   vehicle due to the ease of getting around the site and the amenities available.
 6
 7   The Transit Plan will include an internal circulator that will be autonomous or electric and get people
 8   within a short walk to all of the site amenities. There are 38 spots where it is possible to connect from
 9   roads to greenways on a bicycle and access the entire site by walking or biking without having to get
10   on a road. They are coordinating with the Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) and
11   Mountainland Association of Governments, and the Wasatch Front Regional Council (“WFRC”) to
12   ensure that it can fit in within the broader transportation system. UDOT is working to develop one-
13   way frontage roads along I-15. Mr. Matheson stated that they are looking at possible slip ramps to
14   provide ingress and egress from the site between major intersections.
15
16   The economic benefits of the plan were described. The Gardner Policy Institute at the University of
17   Utah has conducted studies regarding different scenarios. The first was to sell the land to the highest
18   bidder and develop consistent with what has been done in the area in the past and what is expected
19   based on future market conditions. The second scenario was based on this vision. The first scenario
20   was expected to create approximately 4,100 jobs. The Vision Scenario would potentially create
21   47,000 jobs. Selling the property was expected to generate a Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) of
22   $500 million to the State over the next few decades. Under the Vision, they expect to generate a GDP
23   of $6.9 billion. Corporations were expected to headquarter there.
24
25   Without doing any recruiting, several companies have expressed an interest in making the site their
26   headquarters. There will be a research presence as well. Mr. Matheson stated that they expect
27   innovation accelerators to help start-ups become significant businesses. They were also working on
28   several Smart City components and having a range of options available. The ultimate goal was to
29   have a city that is safe and convenient.
30

                                                        3
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   Mr. Matheson presented renderings of the site. There will be a Central Park with a main corridor that
 2   will run east to west through the site. It will look much different than the rendering shown as ideas
 3   continue to emerge and be implemented. Next steps were to bring a development partner on board.
 4   Within the next several weeks, there will be a Request for Quotations (“RFQ”)/ Request for Proposals
 5   (“RFP”) process issued in the development community in Utah and around the country. They plan to
 6   use the media to find the best partners. It was expected that local partners will be involved. To
 7   prepare for that, they identified the structure of deals that they are contemplating. Ten detailed studies
 8   were conducted including design guidelines, Smart City, and a Smart Mobility detailed traffic study
 9   that identifies strategies to minimize off-site traffic generation and improve traffic flow. That
10   information will be captured and used in the selection process. The development community was
11   expected to become partners and work to refine the plan and identify concerns. The Utah State Prison
12   inmates were to be moved next summer. The plan was to start with demolition within one or two
13   months after that and begin work on the infrastructure in 2023.
14
15   Mayor Timothy expressed interest in a connection from 14600 South and Porter Rockwell Boulevard
16   to 600 West and Bangerter Highway as soon as possible. When the bridge opens, that intersection
17   will fail. Anything the Point of the Mountain State Land Authority can do to help that process was
18   welcomed. Mr. Matheson reported that the road will be part of the initial infrastructure and the State’s
19   Division of Facilities Construction and Management is currently working on the RFP/RFQ for the
20   road design and construction. It will be part of the initial phase of the project along with utilities and
21   key open spaces.
22
23   Council Member Crockett asked about the project timeline and the starting point. Mr. Matheson was
24   unsure how long the project would take to complete. He stated that initially, consultants indicated
25   that it would be approximately a 30-year build-out, but he did not think that it would take that long.
26   He expected it to take 15 to 20 years. He stated that they envision a retail/entertainment mixed-use
27   hub in the center of the project, which is where they would start. Proposals and concepts were in the
28   process of being evaluated. Council Member Crockett asked for clarification regarding the number
29   of residences, stating that she had heard 7,500 with 75 being single-family, leaving the remainder to


                                                         4
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

1    be apartments, condominiums, and townhomes. Mr. Matheson stated that it is still the target plan.
2    Traci Crockett also asked about the one-car strategy and the reality of that happening. Mr. Matheson
3    stated that while there may only be a need for one car, residents will not be limited to one car and the
4    development will plan for multiple cars per household. There will be a transition period to the vision
5    of transit and mobility as a service and people using that service. It will take time and the project was
6    allowing for the transition period while looking toward the future vision.
7
8    Council Member Kallas asked about surface parking and if there are plans for parking structures. Mr.
9    Matheson stated that the detailed plan for Phase 1 will include significant structured parking. Funding
10   options were discussed. Funds from the Governor’s budget, an infrastructure bank, and loans to be
11   paid back through property taxes were possibilities for generating the necessary funds. Council
12   Member Kallas also asked about 14600 South and stated that it was renamed Bluffdale Boulevard as
13   a commemorative name. It would be one of the main accesses to the Point. He wanted to ensure that
14   growth plans along the road fit with the Point plans.
15
16   Dave Kallas asked if this project was anticipated to be part of Draper City or incorporated as its own
17   entity. Mr. Matheson reported that the intention is to make the transition into the community seamless
18   by working with the surrounding cities. The property is all within the Draper City boundaries and the
19   board will be voting on the transaction approach. A final decision had not been made but it was likely
20   that the State will maintain control of the site for the foreseeable future. They are working on an
21   Interlocal Agreement with Draper City to provide municipal services. A Master Association will be
22   put in place to maintain public areas.
23
24   Administrative Service Director, Bruce Kartchner, asked for clarification regarding the difference
25   between past development compared to the proposed planned development, the costs, and additional
26   revenues, and how they relate to the State’s investment. One of the studies being conducted currently
27   involves a cost evaluation of the infrastructure by phase. Businesses and developers will contribute
28   to the cost of the development with the majority being borne by those who will benefit directly. Mr.
29   Matheson welcomed questions and feedback from the Council and Staff.


                                                        5
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1
 2          b.      Discussion Related to Residential Parking Ratios.            Staff Presenter, Grant
 3                  Crowell.
 4
 5   City Planner/Economic Development Director, Grant Crowell presented the Bluffdale City Code
 6   regarding parking for residential dwellings. In 2015, after construction began on Independence
 7   Village, the Code was revised to include the following:
 8
 9      •   Single-family/two-family – two parking spaces per dwelling unit enclosed in the garage with
10          20-foot minimum driveway required.
11      •   Single-family on the shared driveway – two parking spaces per dwelling unit enclosed in the
12          garage with guest parking – one guest parking space per three dwelling units.
13      •   Multi-family/condominium/townhome with a driveway – two parking spaces per dwelling
14          unit enclosed in the garage with 20-foot minimum driveway required. Guest parking – one
15          guest parking space per four dwelling units.
16      •   Multi-family/condominium/townhome without a driveway – two parking spaces per dwelling
17          unit enclosed in the garage with 20-foot minimum driveway required. Guest parking – one
18          guest parking space per three dwelling units.
19      •   Apartments – two parking spaces per one or two-bedroom units – 2.5 parking spaces per three
20          or more bedroom units.
21
22   Research was done and similarities were found in surrounding cities. Potential problems versus actual
23   issues were discussed. Mr. Crowell made it clear that it is important to understand the specific issue
24   they want to resolve before trying to solve hypothetical situations.
25
26   Mayor Timothy stated that in his opinion, there will never be enough parking. He cited an example
27   of a townhome neighborhood with two-car garages and noted that cars still line the streets. A 20-foot
28   driveway would help, but people tend to use what they have available, which is on-street parking. He
29   posed the question of responsibility with respect to parking. Council Member Aston felt that two
30   parking spaces per unit was not adequate, that three would be more appropriate.
31

                                                        6
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

1    Council Member Kallas stated that people typically claim the street space in front of their home,
 2   however, in some neighborhoods, there are so many cars parked on the street that there are no parking
 3   spaces available. He asked if that is what they want for Bluffdale. Council Member Crocket agreed
 4   with the Mayor that there will never be enough parking, but questioned at what point is there a balance.
 5   More parking requires more land, which increases the cost of housing. Council Member Kallas spoke
 6   to housing affordability and what has been done in the past by narrowing the streets and providing
7    less parking. Still, housing is not affordable despite their efforts to narrow streets.
8
9    Council Member Crockett addressed the issue of growth from outside the stated that it is
10   unprecedented. There was discussion regarding parking, the need for residents to have more than one
11   car, and the need to stay within the City standard. Mayor Timothy stated that each dwelling should
12   have a two-car garage and at least a 20-foot minimum driveway and anything less than that should
13   become a private road. Council Member Gaston stated that a two-car garage should have a minimum
14   measurement to realistically fit two cars. In Independence Village, for example, it is typically trucks
15   and oversized SUVs that are parked on the street because they do not fit in the garage. Mayor Timothy
16   suggested establishing a small group of residents, staff, and developers to gather information on what
17   is acceptable and desirable in neighborhoods in Bluffdale.
18
19   3.     Council Discussion.
20
21   The above matter was discussed during the Regular Business Meeting.
22
23   Wendy Aston proposed that the Council evaluate all that Mayor Timothy has done for the City and
24   be given a bonus. Throughout his tenure, Mayor Timothy has worked hard and continued to attend
25   meetings until the end of his term. Council Member Aston recommended that he be given a prorated
26   bonus for his service for the period July 2021 through December 2021. A consensus of the Council
27   agreed. The matter was to be included on the next budget adjustment and included on the next payroll.
28
29   4.     Adjourn.
30
31   The Work Session adjourned at 6:58 p.m.



                                                         7
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   Present:        Mayor Derk Timothy
 2                   Wendy Aston
 3                   Traci Crockett
 4                   Jeff Gaston
 5                   Mark Hales
 6                   Dave Kallas
 7
 8   Staff:          Mark Reid, City Manager
 9                   Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director
10                   Todd Sheeran, City Attorney
11                   Courtney Armstrong, Accounting Technician
12                   Michael Fazio, City Engineer
13                   Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director
14                   Shane Paddock, Public Works Director
15                   Jennifer Robison, Senior City Planner
16                   Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
17
18   Others:         Natalie Hall, Mayor-Elect
19                   Jeff Miles, Hansen Bradshaw Malmrose & Erickson
20
21   BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING
22
23   Mayor Timothy called the meeting order at 7:04 p.m.
24
25   1.       Roll Call, Invocation, Pledge of Allegiance.
26
27   All members of the City Council were present. The invocation and pledge were offered by Jay
28   Broadbent who resides at 132 East 13065 South in Draper.
29
30   2.       PUBLIC FORUM.
31
32   There were no public comments.
33
34   3.       CONSENT AGENDA
35
36            3.1    Approval of the November 16, 2021, Board of Canvassers Meeting Minutes.
37            3.2    Approval of the November 17, 2021, City Council Meeting Minutes.
38            3.3    Approval of Resolution No. 2021-53, Appointing Planning Commission
39                   Members.
40            3.4    Approval of Resolution No. 2021-56, Authorizing Staff to Use a Template
41                   Agreement for Telecommunications Franchises.


                                                      8
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1          3.5     Approval of Resolution No. 2021-57, Authorizing the Surplus of City-Owned
 2                  Property.
 3          3.6     Approval of Resolution No. 2021-58, Setting the 2022 Annual Meeting Schedule
 4                  for the City Council, Planning Commission, and Other City Boards and
 5                  Committees.
 6
 7   Agenda item 3.6 was pulled from the agenda.
 8
 9   Dave Kallas moved to approve the Consent Agenda. Mark Hales seconded the motion. Vote
10   on motion: Wendy Aston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Jeff Gaston-Aye, Mark Hales-Aye, Dave
11   Kallas-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
12
13   Consent agenda item number 3.6 was discussed.        Jeff Gaston proposed moving the City Council
14   Meeting of October 12, 2022, to October 5, 2022, as it lands on fall break. He proposed moving the
15   City Council Meeting of June 8, 2022, as well. Administrative Services Director, Bruce Kartchner,
16   found that moving the June meeting would be problematic due to the State’s turnaround and the need
17   for an equalization calculation for both counties. The Council discussed the fall break schedule of
18   the various school districts. The decision was made to remove the October 26 meeting from the 2022
19   Annual Meeting Schedule.
20
21   Wendy Aston moved to approve Resolution 2021-58 with the removal of the October 26, 2022,
22   City Council Meeting. Vote on motion: Wendy Aston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Jeff Gaston-
23   Aye, Mark Hales-Aye, Dave Kallas-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
24
25   4.     Presentation and Consideration of Resolution 2021-59, Expressing Gratitude to Mayor
26          Derk P. Timothy. Presenter, Mayor Pro Tem Wendy Aston.
27
28   Mayor Timothy yielded the Chair to Mayor Pro Tempore, Wendy Aston.
29
30   Mayor Pro Tem Aston expressed gratitude on behalf of the City Council to Mayor Timothy for his 12
31   years of service to the City. He has sacrificed an immense amount of time with his employment and
32   family to serve the citizens and the City as a whole. During his tenure, the City's population has
33   doubled, Mayor Timothy has led the City through a recession and a pandemic, and the recovery
34   process. He played a key role and was a driver of the Porter Rockwell Project and bridge and received


                                                      9
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   funding from both the State and the County to help offset road costs. He was able to restore the trust
 2   and confidence of the residents and brought the City Council together while making complex
 3   decisions. A Resolution was read commending Mayor Timothy for his years of service and dedication
 4   to the City and the residents of Bluffdale.
 5
 6   Dave Kallas expressed appreciation for Mayor Timothy’s service and was grateful for his time and
 7   sacrifice on behalf of the City.
 8
 9   Wendy Aston moved to approve Resolution 2021-59. Mark Hales seconded the motion. Vote
10   on motion: Wendy Aston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Jeff Gaston-Aye, Mark Hales-Aye, Dave
11   Kallas-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
12
13   Mayor Timothy commented that he has been blessed to work with outstanding City Council Members
14   in his 12 years of service. He expressed gratitude to Staff and the City Council Members who have
15   the best interests of the citizens in mind while performing their jobs. He commented that he has never
16   missed a City Council Meeting in the last 12 years and he appreciated the support.
17
18   The City Council presented Mayor Derk Timothy with a plaque in his honor.
19
20   5.     Presentation and Consideration of the 2020-2021 Fiscal Year Audit Report, Hansen
21          Bradshaw Malmrose & Erickson. Presenter, Jeff Miles. (Joint Consideration of Audit:
22          City Council, Local Building Authority, and Redevelopment Agency Board.)
23
24   Mayor Timothy stated the audit will be discussed in conjunction with the Business Meeting, LBA,
25   and RDA, meetings. Each will be voted on separately.
26
27   Mr. Kartchner gave a background of the 2020-2021 Fiscal Year Audit Report and acknowledged the
28   time and effort the Staff has put into providing information on a detailed level. He also acknowledged
29   Contract City Accountant, Dave Sanderson, who prepares information prior to the audit to maintain
30   the City’s separation of duties.
31
32   Jeff Miles from Hansen, Bradshaw, Malmrose, and Erickson presented the 2020-2021 Fiscal Year
33   Audit Report and stated that he has been involved with the City throughout Mayor Timothy’s tenure.

                                                      10
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   He confirmed that the Financial Statement opinion was a clean opinion. The Management Discussion
 2   and Analysis provided a synopsis of the financial statements and identified the City’s assets. The
 3   deferred outflow exceeded liabilities and deferred inflows by $161 million. He reported that a large
 4   portion of the equity is tied up in Capital Assets, which goes toward the City providing services. The
 5   total net position of the City increased by $26 million in 2021 largely due to infrastructure. The
 6   unassigned fund balance for the General Fund currently sits at $2.4 million, or 21% of the total
 7   expenditures of the General Fund. Sales tax collection increased by $700,000 in addition to the
 8   collection of impact fees coming from Salt Lake County and the Utah Department of Transportation
 9   (“UDOT”).
10
11   Internal Control over Financial Reporting Report was discussed. Mr. Miles stated that as part of the
12   audit, they are required to gain an understanding of the City’s internal control by having discussions
13   with management to ensure that policies and procedures are being followed.             There were no
14   deficiencies within the City’s internal controls with respect to financial reporting.        Budgetary
15   compliance, fund balance, Justice Court, restricted taxes, fraud risk assessment, and government fees
16   were reviewed and no instances of non-compliance were found. Mr. Miles recommended the City
17   continue to monitor the budget and ensure proper oversight of Mr. Sanderson. Steps should also be
18   taken to ensure that journal entries are being properly approved and the monitoring of Capital Assets.
19
20   Dave Kallas asked for clarification regarding the auditing of separation of duties. Mr. Miles explained
21   that cash handling should include a different person than the one processing and signing checks. In
22   addition, check signers should be different from those performing bank reconciliations. Individuals
23   setting up vendors should be different from those cutting checks and verifying signatures.
24
25   6.     PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and Vote on Ordinance 2021-23, A General Plan
26          Land Use Map Amendment Application for 5.59 Acres, located at Approximately 13855
27          and 13937 South 2950 West, from Very-Low Density Residential to Commercial,
28          Applicant, D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC. Staff Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
29




                                                       11
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   7.     PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and Vote on Ordinance No. 2021-24, A Zoning
 2          Map Amendment Application for 5.59 Acres, located at Approximately 13855 and 13937
 3          South 2950 West, from R-1-43 Residential to GC-1 General Commercial, Applicant,
 4          D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC. Staff Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
 5
 6   8.     PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and Vote on Resolution No. 2021-54, a Proposed
 7          Development Agreement to Modify Various Requirements in the GC-1 General Zone for
 8          the Tri-City Center Development Proposed by D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC
 9          Property, located at 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West. Staff Presenter, Jennifer
10          Robison.
11
12   Mayor Timothy reported that agenda items 6, 7, and 8 will be discussed together but separate motions
13   would be made.
14
15   Senior City Planner, Jennifer Robison, reported that this is a legislative matter with the Planning
16   Commission providing a recommendation to the City Council. The City Council is the Land Use
17   Authority that approves the General Plan, zoning, and Development Agreement. If a zone change or
18   zoning amendment with a Development Agreement was to be considered as part of the process, it
19   would need to go before the Planning Commission and then to the City Council as public hearings.
20   The 2013 Strategic Plan and 2014 General Plan identified areas in the City they felt were important
21   to be included for commercial. One of those locations was identified as the 2700 West corridor off
22   of Bangerter Boulevard. Mrs. Robison explained that commercial development will be strictly limited
23   to five commercial nodes defined in the 2013 Strategic Plan. The goals of commercial land use in the
24   General Plan were identified. It was noted that the General Plan Map currently shows the proposed
25   area as being a commercial designation.
26
27   Mrs. Robison stated that a development group approached the City to discuss proposals for future
28   development requesting more of the GC-1 to allow additional opportunities for higher use than the
29   Neighborhood Commercial. A history of changes to the General Plan was provided. In 2019, the
30   City Council approved the properties go to a commercial land use designation for the General Plan.
31   From then until May 2020, the City Council approved all of the properties for the commercial land
32   use designation while being aware of the desire for more tax revenue, services, and fiscal strategy to
33   allow development in the corridor. Areas encompassed by the General Plan were highlighted.


                                                      12
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1
 2   Mrs. Robison reported that within the last year, they understood that the economics regarding the
 3   suitability and marketability of these properties may not be suitable for low-density residential. The
 4   current zoning map was displayed. The proposed properties were rezoned to General Commercial
5    (“GC-1”) because the City felt it was appropriate based on the changes that would be taking place
6    with Bangerter Highway. After the City was made aware of future projects, the impacts of traffic
 7   were identified and a future minor collector was added to the Transportation Master Plan. If the
 8   property were to be developed along 2700 West to 2950 West, they would have better access and
 9   traffic circulation to mitigate the impact. A map of future project applications was displayed.
10
11   In evaluating the project, Staff reviewed zoning tools that included General Commercial, Professional
12   Office, and Neighborhood Commercial designations. The applicant requested the GC-1 zone, which
13   would allow for more flexibility with future uses. The Planning Commission asked if the applicants
14   would enter into a Development Agreement to reduce the impact on those that remain residential. A
15   draft was provided to the Planning Commission depicting items that may be included but are not
16   typically within their purview. The use table was reviewed. Mrs. Robison confirmed that the
17   Planning Commission advised against 24-hour services and uses that would impact surrounding
18   neighborhoods.
19
20   Mayor Timothy expressed concern with voting on a General Plan, zoning map, and a Development
21   Agreement while there are still issues being negotiated. Mrs. Robison stated that Staff did not feel
22   that the Development Agreement was in final form for adoption. After receiving the Planning
23   Commission recommendation, the developer provided a letter describing items they wished to discuss
24   further.   She confirmed that the matter was noticed and on the agenda after receiving a
25   recommendation from the Planning Commission to move forward.
26
27   The applicant requested an increase in height from the GC zone standard of 35 feet to 47 feet with a
28   natural stone exterior. Mrs. Robison reported that natural stone is not prohibited but the requirements
29   include 50% brick on the street-facing side. Road reimbursement was also a consideration. City
30   Manager, Mark Reid reported that it is on the City’s IFFP and would be involved in the building or


                                                       13
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   cost reimbursement. He recommended that they purchase the ground prior to changing the zoning
 2   and a potential price increase. City Attorney, Todd Sheeran, reported that the developer is obligated
 3   to pay for the impacts caused by the development. As this is a City-proposed road, the conditions
 4   will be above and beyond those created by the development.
 5
 6   Mrs. Robison stated that the Concept Plan would be the final item required in the Development
 7   Agreement. She emphasized the need to acquire all of the information needed to ensure that the City
 8   is receiving what has been proposed. The applicant is proposing two-story office buildings and asked
 9   if additional details are required to mitigate the impacts should they go to GC-1 zoning.
10
11   Mayor Timothy supported the GC-1 zone but was opposed to the proposed 47-foot height. He
12   emphasized the need to control the aesthetic and traffic impacts. Wendy Aston believed the design
13   standards were created to decrease the impact on residential neighborhoods and was opposed to
14   deviating from them.
15
16   Dave Kallas asked for clarification regarding exterior design standards being part of the Development
17   Agreement. He believed the road was critical to reducing the impacts and will add value but was
18   opposed to the possibility of being overcharged. Mrs. Robison noted that natural stone could be used
19   but brick was the material of choice. She confirmed that they will be working with adjacent property
20   owners to acquire access. There were plans to develop a neighboring property and she was of the
21   understanding that the timing will be close to other proposed projects. It was confirmed that the
22   current resident, Mr. Winter, is amiable to working with the City on future development. Mr. Reid
23   stated that negotiations were underway and preferred the items be tabled to allow for further
24   discussion.
25
26   The applicant, Tod Kirton, gave his address as 78 West 13775 South, in Draper and addressed the
27   Development Agreement. He stated that they agree with regard to the Development Agreement as
28   proposed to the Planning Commission. The following five items were omitted by the Planning
29   Commission from the agreement that they would like to be included.
30


                                                      14
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1      •   A restaurant uses added to the Permitted Use Table.
 2      •   Storage facilities for machinery and equipment.
 3      •   The exterior façade is to be natural stone.
 4      •   Building height to be 47 feet due to the proximity of Bangerter Highway.
 5      •   They are agreeable to a road reimbursement price of $6.50 per square foot.
 6
 7   Mr. Kirton stated that storage will be located in the interior and not visible to the public. An image
 8   was displayed. He referenced the current zoning map and shared a 3-D video rendering of the project
 9   that he felt was consistent with the City’s General Plan. The first level is standard building height
10   with the second level having a slightly higher ceiling. The allowance of 47 feet in height will
11   accommodate a third level. The units would be multi-tenant with the northern building being owned
12   and operated by a single-tenant, Alpine Home Medical. The southern building will be occupied by
13   Lucca Design, Kaskade Homes, and Tri-City Construction, which have the same owner. The
14   restaurant will be a café located inside the building.
15
16   Mayor Timothy found the project to be interesting and believed the tenants will have a positive impact
17   on the City. He thought it was likely that they will want to settle the issues regarding the Development
18   Agreement and allow the public to review the final product.        Mr. Kirton reiterated the desire to
19   include the five items in the Development Agreement if the Council so chooses. Mayor Timothy
20   commented the property to the east already has commercial zoning and questioned the property in the
21   middle. He suggested there be more discussion regarding the road to make sure that it is included in
22   the Development Agreement. Mr. Kirton stated that they are amenable to several of the Council’s
23   requests and are willing to take the $6.50 per square foot for road reimbursement, the allowable
24   building height of 35 feet, and would like to include the restaurant and storage. There was to be
25   additional discussion on the façade later.
26
27   Mayor Timothy opened the public hearing for items 6, 7, and 8.
28
29   Gary Jumper gave his address as 13824 Asherwood Cove and stated that the only access to the
30   proposed development is from 2950 West and 13900 South. There is no other access from the other


                                                          15
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   side. The area includes the Bangerter noise-reducing wall to the south. Mr. Jumper considered the
 2   additional traffic, noise, and pollution that will reverberate off the wall to be irresponsible. He
 3   remarked that the Planning Commission moved forward with a recommendation to approve the
 4   zoning change and one access from 13800 South without reviewing the developer’s traffic study. The
 5   Planning Department has shown a future road on 13900 South from 2700 West to 2950 West and he
 6   questioned why the City has not requested access from 2700 West be completed prior to the proposed
 7   zone change. He also suggested that the developers create a proper flow for traffic. A commercial
 8   loop was suggested. Mr. Jumper stated that the residents along 13800 South have hired legal counsel
 9   to help them address their concerns.
10
11   Ron Dorion gave his address as 13907 South Kailye Lane and stated that he moved to Bluffdale
12   because of the zoning and large lots. He had spoken to numerous residents and not a single person
13   was in favor of the request. He was opposed to the proposed height and shared concern with the
14   employees of the proposed businesses driving through the residential neighborhood during their lunch
15   break. A buffer was suggested. Mr. Dorion stated that 2950 West will not support the increase in
16   traffic and 13900 South will become a racetrack.
17
18   Lois Fonnesbeck gave her address as 3007 West 13800 South and stated that the proposed buildings
19   will look directly into her bedroom windows. She agreed that the road and should not become an
20   outlet onto 2950 West. She was opposed to an increase in traffic and speeding was of concern. She
21   urged Council Members to oppose the project and protect their neighborhood.
22
23   Anna Kelsch gave her address as 2998 Warren Circle and considered the proposed height of 47 feet
24   to be overwhelming. She was opposed to the request.
25
26   Julie Humphreys gave her address as 13921 South Kailye Lane and expressed concern with traffic
27   and safety. She questioned Alpine Medical having a retail space resulting in additional traffic.
28   Delivery traffic was an issue and she would like to see a rendering accurately representing who will
29   be occupying the building and the increased traffic through the neighborhood. She did not think this
30   was the right proposal for the citizens. She also did not believe the developer was forthright in


                                                        16
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   describing the proposed natural stone. Safety issues along 13800 South make it difficult to ride horses
 2   or walk to the park. She was ashamed of the mess along 13800 South and encouraged the City to
 3   improve the area prior to allowing large office buildings.
 4
 5   Jay Broadbent identified himself as the owner of Alpine Home Medical located at 132 East 13065
 6   South in Draper. He understood neighbors' concern with the proposed project and felt that his
 7   business would provide a buffer between residential and commercial. He noted that they are running
 8   retail and only using the space for billing. They want to be a good neighbor and have been in business
 9   for 25 years. Mr. Broadbent stated that the property is under contract but has yet to be purchased.
10
11   Mary Street from Mountain West Commercial gave her business address as 2015 West Grove
12   Parkway in Pleasant Grove. She was present representing the landowner. They understand that many
13   of residents’ concerns pertain to the road. Since it is already on the City’s Master Transportation
14   Plan, it is something the City wishes to pursue. The landowner and developer have moved forward
15   with the impression that this is the case and must be addressed if the City feels otherwise. They feel
16   the developer has been erring on the side of caution and making sure they are following the City’s
17   requirements. In many of their projects what they are calling a restaurant is called a break room and
18   is permitted in those types of buildings. The requested storage can be found in General Commercial
19   zones where stores have inventory or processing materials. She understood that what the applicant is
20   requesting is not out of the ordinary. In other projects, they have received approval subject to the
21   satisfactory negotiation of the Development Agreement.
22
23   Bryan Coulter gave his address as 1337 Country Lane in Erda and stated that the noise wall ends at
24   the red line along Bangerter Highway. He believed what was proposed is a building that will diffuse
25   the noise. The 40-to-60-foot trees will eliminate the buildings from the view of residents and mitigate
26   many of the concerns identified. The project will include an additional sidewalk, landscaping,
27   parking, beautiful buildings with well-respected businesses. He believed the project will include job
28   creation, sales tax, property tax, and lighten the City’s tax burdens. He recommended the proposal
29   be passed with the contingency that the road is approved and the landscaping will cover the buildings
30   to the west. He expressed his support for the request.

                                                       17
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1
 2   Mindy Kelsch gave her address as 2968 Warren Circle and felt that more traffic will increase the
 3   number of traffic accidents. She believed that 13800 South is not wide enough and expressed
 4   opposition to the 47-foot height request.
 5
 6   Steve Smith gave his address as 13830 Asherwood Cove and expressed concern with an increase in
 7   traffic and the proposed project establishing a commercial corridor. He was in favor of a commercial
 8   building but opposed the proposed 47-foot height. Further review of the developer’s traffic study was
 9   encouraged.
10
11   Carlene Sommer gave her address as 4949 South 2925 West in Roy and identified herself as the owner
12   of the subject property. She felt that the developer had been honest in his dealings and had a desire
13   to improve the area. She preferred to keep the property and run the farm with her sons but times have
14   changed. She urged the Council to approve the request.
15
16   Mrs. Robison read an online comment from Richard Salvitti who is the property owner to the west.
17   He was seeking a buffer wall to maintain separation. He considered buffer walls to be reasonable
18   between properties with different zoning, especially residential, professional office, or commercial.
19   They asked that the wall be built the entire length of the property along 2050 West.
20
21   Jeremy Bitner identified himself as the owner of the two properties at 2700 West and 13930 and
22   13912 South. Phase 1 of the road runs to the end of his property. He estimated that they have had
23   five different versions of the Reimbursement Agreement in collaboration with the City and engineers.
24   He believed it would be more cost-effective for the road to be built in one continuous effort rather
25   than in three different sections. Doing so will save hundreds of thousands of dollars and result in a
26   much better finished project. Mr. Bitner was in favor of the road continuing all the way through to
27   eliminate the need for drivers to pass North Star Academy. He felt that the 35-foot height requirement
28   was not too high. He reported that the Development Agreement was pulled after receiving a storm
29   drain estimate from Sun Rock that was higher than originally submitted to the City Council. He urged
30   the City to complete construction of the road simultaneously.


                                                      18
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1
 2   Steve Showell gave his address as 45683 Cottonwood Hills Drive, Parker, Colorado, and indicated
 3   that he is one of three owners of the property. He has seen the City struggle with change over the
 4   years and trying to remain rural. He believed there is a real need for access as 93% of Bluffdale
 5   residents leave the City for employment. The property at 2950 West is located on the west side as a
 6   connector road with Bangerter along the north border and stated what has been proposed is a positive
 7   transition from residential side to commercial. Several factors will positively impact the City. He
 8   encouraged the City Council to support the request.
 9
10   There were no further public comments. Mayor Timothy closed the public hearing.
11
12   Mark Kallas asked for clarification regarding the zoning. Mrs. Robison stated that when considering
13   zoning, the Planning Commission looked at Professional Office, Neighborhood Commercial, and
14   General Commercial. The three zones all included a 35-foot maximum height with the Neighborhood
15   Commercial having limitations on hours of operation and the GC-1 zone eliminated some of the uses.
16   A table comparing the zones was displayed. Council Member Kallas supported the proposal and felt
17   the Council should enforce the design standard of 35 feet in the GC zone. If the applicant wants
18   additional height, they should consider changing to an office type of zoning. He was not comfortable
19   approving the request until the changes are included in the Development Agreement and done
20   correctly. Council Member Hales agreed.
21
22   Traci Crockett supported the road going through and believed it will have to be addressed because it
23   will connect to Herriman at some point. Wendy Aston felt there were good points on both sides of
24   the issue and emphasized the need to reduce the impact on the residents. She believed the standards
25   should remain and preferred to table the matter.
26
27   Mrs. Robison stated that the request could be addressed quickly once the concerns of the City are
28   addressed. She stated that details regarding the Development Agreement and Conceptual Plan were
29   needed and confirmed that the terms of the agreement can be changed if needed. The terms were
30   discussed.
31

                                                        19
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   Mr. Sheeran reported that Development Agreements sometimes require construction to begin within
 2   a certain time period. Dave Kallas asked if it was possible to trigger the zone change by starting a
 3   project. Mr. Sheeran reported that he had never seen that done. Whatever is approved by the Council
 4   would be tied to the Development Agreement.
 5
 6   Dave Kallas moved to table agenda item number six (Ordinance Number 2021-23). Jeff Gaston
 7   seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Jeff Gaston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Dave Kallas-Aye,
 8   Mark Hales-Aye, Wendy Aston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
 9
10   9.     PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and Vote on Ordinance No. 2021-24, A Zoning
11          Map Amendment Application for 5.59 Acres, located at Approximately 13855 and 13937
12          South 2950 West, from R-1-43 Residential to GC-1 General Commercial, Applicant,
13          D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC. Staff Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
14
15   Dave Kallas moved to table agenda item number seven (Ordinance Number 2021-24). Jeff
16   Gaston seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Jeff Gaston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Dave
17   Kallas-Aye, Mark Hales-Aye, Wendy Aston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
18
19   10.    PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and Vote on Resolution No. 2021-54, a Proposed
20          Development Agreement to Modify Various Requirements in the GC-1 General Zone for
21          the Tri-City Center Development Proposed by D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC
22          Property, located at 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West. Staff Presenter, Jennifer
23          Robison.
24
25   Dave Kallas moved to table agenda item number eight (Resolution Number 2021-54). Jeff
26   Gaston seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Jeff Gaston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Dave
27   Kallas-Aye, Mark Hales-Aye, Wendy Aston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
28
29   LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY (“LBA”) OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD
30   MEETING
31
32   1.     Roll Call.
33
34   All members of the LBA Board were present.
35



                                                     20
                              DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   2.     Presentation and Consideration of the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year Audit Report, Hansen
 2          Bradshaw Malmrose & Erickson.
 3
 4   The above matter was discussed as part of the regular meeting.
 5
 6   3.     Adjournment.
 7
 8   The LBA Board Meeting was adjourned.
 9
10   BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (“RDA”) BOARD MEETING
11
12   RDA Chair, Dave Kallas, assumed the Chair and called the meeting to order.
13
14   1.     Roll Call.
15
16   All Members of the RDA Board were in attendance.
17
18   2.     Presentation and Consideration of the 2021-2022 Fiscal Year Audit Report, Hansen
19          Bradshaw Malmrose & Erickson.
20
21   The Audit was presented during the Regular Meeting.
22
23   3.     Consideration and Vote on Resolution No. 2021-06, Extending the Tax Increment
24          Collection Period in the Bluffdale Gateway RDA Project Area, Due to the COVID-19
25          Restrictions. Staff Presenter, Bruce Kartchner.
26
27   Mr. Kartchner reported that the State provided a revision to the law in 2020 allowing the City to
28   extend the collection period for its EDA and RDA areas for an additional two years. In the case of
29   the Gateway RDA, the proceeds will likely all go to either the low-income housing unit in that facility
30   or the current developer. He explained that the developer paid off the bond and is still short the total
31   amount that was collected. There was a benefit to them that ultimately will benefit the City but it is
32   not necessarily a direct financial remuneration to the City.
33
34   The Jordan Narrows EDA also has an overall cap of $20 million that cannot be exceeded. He expected
35   that to be met before the collection term is done. The goal was to max that out to the total amount
36   that can be collected.
37



                                                       21
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   The Eastern Bluffdale EDA has been most impacted by COVID-19 but will benefit from an extended
 2   collection period. In that area, the hotel was being developed and they pulled back since they did not
 3   know what was going to happen in terms of travel. Definite slowdowns had been seen as a result of
 4   COVID-19. Once the extensions are passed, they will be filed with the appropriate state taxing
 5   authorities and pick up an additional two years of collections.
 6
 7   Dave Kallas asked if it could be extended beyond two years with the increment to be used toward
 8   Public Works. Mr. Kartchner explained that the General Fund benefits the expiration of the tax along
 9   with the funds available to promote economic development. Each of the project areas has different
10   collection amounts that are paid to the City in the form of a Management Fee. Currently, the City’s
11   property taxes represent 14% of the total increment. The difference between the Management Fee
12   and the Property Taxes that the City would receive directly will benefit the City. More General Fund
13   revenue allows them to accomplish the primary focus of the City services. For a two-year delay, the
14   City would likely benefit overall by being able to promote additional businesses in the area that would
15   also raise the increment. Mr. Kartchner assured the Council that they will work to make sure that
16   they are paying for the Public Works facility.
17
18   Mayor Derk Timothy moved to adopt Resolution 2021-06. Jeff Gaston seconded the motion.
19   Vote on motion: Board Member Gaston-Aye, Board Member Crockett-Aye, Board Member
20   Kallas-Aye, Board Member Hales-Aye, Board Member Aston-Aye, Mayor Timothy-Aye. The
21   motion passed unanimously.
22
23   4.     Consideration and Vote on Resolution No. 2021-07, Extending the Tax Increment
24          Collection Period in the Eastern Bluffdale Economic Development Project Area, Due to
25          the COVID-19 Restrictions. Staff Presenter, Bruce Kartchner.
26
27   Mayor Derk Timothy moved to adopt Resolution 2021-07. Jeff Gaston seconded the motion.
28   Vote on motion: Board Member Gaston-Aye, Board Member Crockett-Aye, Board Member
29   Kallas-Aye, Board Member Hales-Aye, Board Member Aston-Aye, Mayor Timothy-Aye. The
30   motion passed unanimously.
31


                                                       22
                              DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

          BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
             BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                                 MEETING MINUTES
                             Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   5.        Consideration and Vote on Resolution No. 2021-08, Extending the Tax Increment
 2             Collection Period in the Jordan Narrows Economic Development Project Area, Due to
 3             the COVID-19 Restrictions. Staff Presenter, Bruce Kartchner.
 4
 5   Mayor Derk Timothy moved to adopt Resolution 2021-08. Jeff Gaston seconded the motion.
 6   Vote on motion: Board Member Gaston-Aye, Board Member Crockett-Aye, Board Member
 7   Kallas-Aye, Board Member Hales-Aye, Board Member Aston-Aye, Mayor Timothy-Aye. The
 8   motion passed unanimously.
 9
10   6.        Adjournment.
11
12   The RDA Meeting was adjourned.
13
14   CONTINUATION OF BUSINESS MEETING
15
16   Mayor Timothy resumed the Chair.
17
18   9.        Mayor’s Report.
19
20   Mayor Timothy reported on the following:
21
22         •   The transition from himself to Mayor-Elect Natalie Hall was underway. The intent was to
23             make it as smooth as possible. Mayor Timothy would avail himself to Mayor Hall for any
24             questions going forward.
25         •   Nine new mayors were taking office in Salt Lake County. He considered this to be a good
26             opportunity for new relations.
27         •   The Mayor thanked the City Council for their efforts and had enjoyed working with them. He
28             looked forward to spending time with his family going forward.
29
30   10.       City Manager’s Report and Discussion.
31
32   Mr. Reid reported on the following:
33
34         •   It had been a pleasure to work with Mayor Timothy over the past 12 years. He commended
35             the Mayor for all he has accomplished during his tenure. He appreciated Mayor Timothy’s
36             focus on moving Bluffdale forward.

                                                       23
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

        BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
           BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                               MEETING MINUTES
                           Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1      •   Over the past few weeks, staff met with the Westgate HOA President who proposed a parking
 2          permit program that would make parking on streets permitted.
 3      •   December 10 was to be Terri Bawden’s last day. An Open House was scheduled from 11:00
 4          a.m. to 1:00 p.m. that day. A light lunch was to be served.
 5      •   The Christmas Party was scheduled for December 17. Each City Council Member and one
 6          guest were invited to attend.
 7      •   An Open House for Mayor Timothy was scheduled for Tuesday, January 4 from 2:00 p.m. to
 8          4:00 p.m.
 9      •   The Swearing-In Ceremony for Mayor-Elect Hall was scheduled for January 4 at 6:00 p.m.
10          While it would be a noticed meeting, no other business would take place. Refreshments would
11          be served.
12      •   The City purchased the Park Property at Day Ranch and issued a check earlier in the day.
13          Details of the first phase were being prepared by staff. The project was to be phased. As
14          many projects as possible will be completed based on the available funds. Dave Kallas
15          suggested that they consider moving the entire project forward. Mr. Kartchner stated that
16          there are a number of high-density residential projects coming forward that will be taken into
17          consideration based on the cash flow that is likely to come from them. The Council was
18          discussing an apartment complex on the Parry property and the DAI property as well as
19          additional townhomes. All will contribute to the Park Impact Fees and be included in the
20          calculations. Mr. Reid clarified that the commercial projects discussed do not add to the Park
21          Impact Fees.
22      •   Auditions for Shrek were scheduled for December 9, 10, and 11.
23      •   The City has been contacted by the developers of ‘Bout Time Pub and Grub who have
24          complained about the City’s turnaround time and fees.
25      •   At the next meeting, the Council will address how to deal with impact fee requests.
26
27   The Council returned to item number three from the Work Session after which they resumed the
28   agenda as printed.
29

                                                     24
                           DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

       BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
          BLUFFDALE BOARD REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD COMBINED
                              MEETING MINUTES
                          Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   11.    Closed Meeting Pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205(1) to Discuss the Character,
 2          Professional Competence, or Health of an Individual, Collective Bargaining, Pending or
 3          Imminent Litigation, Strategies to Discuss Real Property Acquisition, Including any
 4          Form of a Water Right or Water Share, Security Issues, or any Alleged Criminal
 5          Misconduct (if needed).
 6
 7   Jeff Gaston moved to go into Closed Meeting pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205(1) to discuss
 8   real estate and collective bargaining. Mark Hales seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Jeff
 9   Gaston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Dave Kallas-Aye, Mark Hales-Aye, Wendy Aston-Aye. The
10   motion passed unanimously.
11
12   The City Council was in Closed Session from 9:55 p.m. to 9:58 p.m.
13
14   12.    Adjournment.
15
16   The City Council Meeting adjourned at 9:58 p.m.
17
18
19
20   __________________________________
21   Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
22   City Recorder
23
24   Approved: _________________________




                                                    25
                           DRAFT - FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                    CLOSED MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, December 8, 2021

 1   Present:       Mayor Derk Timothy
 2                  Wendy Aston
 3                  Traci Crockett
 4                  Jeff Gaston
 5                  Mark Hales
 6                  Dave Kallas
 7
 8   Staff:         Mark Reid, City Manager
 9                  Bruce Kartchner, Administrative Services Director
10                  Todd Sheeran, City Attorney
11
12   At 9:55 p.m. Mayor Derk Timothy called the meeting to order.
13
14   MOTION: Jeff Gaston moved to go into Closed Meeting pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205(1) to
15   discuss real estate and collective bargaining.
16
17   SECOND: Mark Hales seconded the motion.
18
19   VOTE ON MOTION: Dave Kallas-Aye, Jeff Gaston-Aye, Traci Crockett-Aye, Mark Hales-Aye,
20   Wendy Aston-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
21
22   The Council discussed real estate and collective bargaining issues.
23
24   The City Council resumed the regular meeting at 9:58 p.m.
25
26
27   ________________________________
28   Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
29   City Recorder
30
31   Approved: _________________________




                                                     1
                                                      a
                                              BLUf.-~.PALE
                                        Michael Fazio, P.E. City Engineer




                                                 Memo

Date: 4 January 2022

From: Michael Fazio, P.E~
To:     Mayor Hall
        City Council
CC:     Mark Reid , City Manager


RE:     Porter Rockwell Access         Management Agreement with the Utah                  Department of
        Transportation (UDOT)




City Leadership and Staff have negotiated a corridor access management agreement with UDOT.
This corridor agreement was originally approved by the City Council in the last Council meeting in
September 2021. Subsequentially, UDOT's new legal counsel requ ested to modify the language to
better describe the agreement in legal terms. The new agreement has not changed in substance
but the language has been improved.


As stated in the previous memo in September, "this agreement establishes the locations for future
traffic signal locations and current full and right-in and right-out accesses, the exhibit that is part of
the agreement shows clearly these locations.


Additionally, it includes the criteria for any new accesses along Porter Rockwell Boulevard. With these
criteria, any new access that is on the map and recognized in the agreement that is not built yet or any
other new access must be approved through an access management application at UDOT Region 2."


I recommend approving the agreement and allowing the City Manager to sign the agreement.




                                     2222W 14400W, Bluffdale, Utah 84065;
                                    Tel. 801-559-7781; mfazio@bluffale.com
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2022-01

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AUTHORIZING
BLUFFDALE CITY AND UDOT TO ENTER INTO A CORRIDOR AGREEMENT PERTAINING TO PORTER
ROCKWELL BLVD.

        WHEREAS, the City and the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) desire to have safe
transportation facilities by controlling access points on Porter Rockwell Boulevard, a major arterial
road in Bluffdale; and

       WHEREAS, the City and UDOT have organized the current and future potential access in
the Corridor Agreement Porter Rockwell Boulevard; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council finds that entering into this Agreement is

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Authority to Sign. The City Council hereby authorizes the City Manager to
execute the Agreement attached as Exhibit A.

      SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF
_________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                      YES       NO    ABSTAIN        ABSENT

                         Councilmember Aston
                         Councilmember Crockett
                         Councilmember Gaston
                         Councilmember Hales
                         Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                                Attest:
          Natalie Hall                                          City Recorder




                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
EXHIBIT A




            Page 2 of 2
                                                   Porter Rockwell Boulevard Corridor Agreement
                                                              Utah Department of Transportation
                                                                                 City of Bluffdale

                             CORRIDOR AGREEMENT
                          PORTER ROCKWELL BOULEVARD

       This CORRIDOR AGREEMENT made and entered into this _____ day of
____________________, 2022, by and between the UTAH DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION, hereinafter referred to as “UDOT,” and the CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
a Utah municipal corporation, hereinafter referred to as “BLUFFDALE,” all collectively
referred to herein as the “PARTIES.”

                                       RECITALS:

       WHEREAS, based on a future jurisdictional transfer, UDOT and BLUFFDALE
desire to enter into a CORRIDOR AGREEMENT to plan for the future spacing and
location of traffic signals in the Signal Control Plan and street and private access spacing
in an Access Corridor Control Plan for Porter Rockwell Boulevard (future S.R. 131) from
S.R. 140 (14600 South) to S.R. 68 (Redwood Road).

       WHEREAS, the PARTIES desire to use this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT in order
to help manage traffic flow, improve safety, and plan for future signal locations, public
streets, private accesses, and other considerations within the corridor as described
herein.

    WHEREAS, UDOT and BLUFFDALE agree to enter into this CORRIDOR
AGREEMENT to accomplish this common goal.

                                      AGREEMENT:

      NOW THEREFORE, based on the recitals above, which by this reference are
incorporated herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the PARTIES hereto
agree as follows:

   1. Signal Control Plan: The PARTIES hereby adopt the Signal Control Plan and the
      Access Corridor Control Plan, attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by
      reference. The PARTIES agree that traffic signals will only be installed in
      accordance with the Signal Control Plan and at those intersections that meet the
      minimum traffic signal warrants as defined by the most recently adopted Utah
      Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), after a UDOT field review,
      and when funding has been secured. Exhibit A identifies the locations of the six
      future signals. They are defined below:
          a. Rising Star Way
          b. Freedom Point Way
          c. Noell Nelson Drive
          d. Harmon Day Drive
          e. Heritagecrest Way
          f. Bringhurst Boulevard



                                            1
                                              Porter Rockwell Boulevard Corridor Agreement
                                                         Utah Department of Transportation
                                                                            City of Bluffdale



2. Access Corridor Control Plan: BLUFFDALE acknowledges that for any
   development approval, UDOT will require access permits to obtain access to
   Porter Rockwell Boulevard. BLUFFDALE acknowledges that such access is
   subject to Utah law, as currently stated in Utah Administrative Code R930-6, and
   that regulatory requirements may change from time to time. At the time of
   executing this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT, access to Porter Rockwell Boulevard is
   subject to the following access management standards under Utah Administrative
   Code R930-6:
      a. Category 5, Regional Priority-Urban (R-PU) from S.R. 140 (14600 South)
          to S.R. 68 (Redwood Road).
      b. Minimum signal spacing is 2,640 feet, minimum street spacing is 660 feet,
          and minimum access spacing is 350 feet.

3. The PARTIES agree that the two existing accesses listed below will be considered
   minor accesses and may have safety treatments implemented as necessary to
   make the intersections and the corridor function as safely as possible. Both
   PARTIES shall develop master transportation plan strategies around this concept
   and the PARTIES hereto shall work towards the common goal of preserving the
   mobility and safety of the corridor as identified in this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT.
      a. Summit Academy (west side)
      b. Regent Garden Lane (east side)

4. The PARTIES agree that following accesses are in place and existing and are
   anticipated to remain at the present location(s). Anyone seeking changes to the
   below locations must obtain an access permit through UDOT and seek an
   agreement with BLUFFDALE consistent with this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT.
      a. One RIRO access located approximately 350 feet south of Rising Star Way
          (west side).
      b. One RIRO access located approximately 425 feet south S.R. 140 into the
          Rockwell Ridge development (east side).
      c. One RIRO access located approximately 425 feet south of S.R. 140 into
          Perry Mixed Use development (west side).
      d. One RIRO access located approximately 340 feet south of Freedom Point
          Way into the Holiday Oil development (east side).
      e. One RIRO access located approximately 650 feet south of Freedom Point
          Way into the Holiday Oil development (east side). It is anticipated that this
          access is a possible future shared access for private development.
      f. One RIRO access located approximately 925 feet south of Freedom Pint
          Way into the Rock Point Apartments (west side).
      g. One RIRO access located approximately 1,200 feet south of Freedom Point
          Way into Geneva Rock property (east side).
      h. One RIRO access located approximately 1,150 west of Harmon Day Drive
          into Plentiful Way (north side).




                                        2
                                               Porter Rockwell Boulevard Corridor Agreement
                                                          Utah Department of Transportation
                                                                             City of Bluffdale

       i.   One RIRO access located approximately 420 feet east of S.R. 68 into the
            McDougal development (north side).
       j.   One RIRO access located approximately 420 feet east of S.R. 68 into the
            McDougal development (south side).

5. The PARTIES agree that the following three access have not yet been completely
   defined. These accesses will need to meet the Category 5 access management
   standards referenced above in paragraph 2. Specific locations will be established
   at the time of application for an access permit in coordination between UDOT and
   BLUFFDALE.
       a. One RIRO access located approximately 60 feet east of Plentiful Way into
           the Geneva Rock property (east side).
       b. One RIRO access located at least 660 feet south of Heritagecrest Way into
           Geneva Rock property (east side).
       c. One RIRO access located at least 660 feet south of Heritagecrest Way into
           Geneva Rock property (west side).

6. BLUFFDALE shall note and adopt in its transportation master plan this
   CORRIDOR AGREEMENT, and it shall pursue the Signal Control Plan and the
   Access Corridor Control Plan (attached hereto as Exhibit A).

7. UDOT and BLUFFDALE acknowledge that the plans required by this CORRIDOR
   AGREEMENT are subject to change at any time to reflect matters not anticipated
   including, but not limited to, altered regulations and traffic patterns. Any necessary
   changes should not degrade the traffic operations or safety of the future state
   highway and overall transportation system as certified by a traffic engineering
   study performed by a licensed engineer certified and qualified to perform this
   analysis in the State of Utah.

8. This CORRIDOR AGREEMENT cannot be altered or amended, except pursuant
   to an instrument in writing signed by each of the parties. The PARTIES will execute
   appropriate amendments to this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT to reflect changes in
   the plans.

9. If any term or provision of this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT or application to any
   person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, then the
   remainder of this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT shall not be affected and each term,
   condition and provision of this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT shall be valid and
   enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law, so long as removing the severed
   portion does not materially alter the overall intent of this CORRIDOR
   AGREEMENT.

10. The failure of a party to insist upon strict performance of any provisions of this
    CORRIDOR AGREEMENT shall not be construed as a waiver for future purposes
    with respect to any such provision or portion. No provision of this CORRIDOR



                                        3
                                                  Porter Rockwell Boulevard Corridor Agreement
                                                             Utah Department of Transportation
                                                                                City of Bluffdale

      AGREEMENT shall be waived unless such waiver is in writing and signed by the
      party alleged to have waived its rights.

   11. Each party represents and warrants that the person signing below has been duly
       authorized for all necessary action, as appropriate, to execute this CORRIDOR
       AGREEMENT for and on behalf of the respective party. This CORRIDOR
       AGREEMENT may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which
       shall be deemed an original, but all of which, together, shall constitute one and the
       same instrument. A faxed or electronically transmitted “pdf” signature shall be
       deemed an original for all purposes.

   12. Each party agrees to undertake and perform all further acts that are reasonably
       necessary (except when expressly prohibited by law) to carry out the intent and
       purpose of this CORRIDOR AGREEMENT and to maintain compliance with the
       laws that are applicable to each party after receiving a written notice from the
       other party that explains the need for such action.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this CORRIDOR
AGREEMENT to be executed by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first
above written.

CITY OF BLUFFDALE, a Municipal Corporation of the State of Utah



______________________________________________                  _____________________
Natalie Hall, Bluffdale City Mayor                              Date

ATTEST:


______________________________________________                  _____________________
Wendy Deppe, Bluffdale City Recorder                            Date
(Impress Seal)



______________________________________________                  _____________________
Todd Sheeran, Bluffdale City Attorney                           Date




                                           4
                                         Porter Rockwell Boulevard Corridor Agreement
                                                    Utah Department of Transportation
                                                                       City of Bluffdale

RECOMMENDED FOR APPROVAL: UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION



______________________________________________         _____________________
Eric Chaston, UDOT Region Two Operations Engineer      Date




______________________________________________         _____________________
Robert Stewart, UDOT Region Two Director               Date




______________________________________________         _____________________
Contract Administrator, UDOT Comptroller’s Office      Date

APPROVED AS TO FORM:


______________________________________________         _____________________
Jodi Howick, Assistant Attorney General                Date




                                   5
                                                                       Porter Rockwell Boulevard Corridor Agreement
                                                                                  Utah Department of Transportation
                                                                                                     City of Bluffdale

Exhibit A – Signal Control Plan and Access Corridor Control Plan




                                                                   6
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2022-01

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AUTHORIZING
BLUFFDALE CITY AND UDOT TO ENTER INTO A CORRIDOR AGREEMENT PERTAINING TO PORTER
ROCKWELL BLVD.

        WHEREAS, the City and the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) desire to have safe
transportation facilities by controlling access points on Porter Rockwell Boulevard, a major arterial
road in Bluffdale; and

       WHEREAS, the City and UDOT have organized the current and future potential access in
the Corridor Agreement Porter Rockwell Boulevard; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council finds that entering into this Agreement is

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Authority to Sign. The City Council hereby authorizes the City Manager to
execute the Agreement attached as Exhibit A.

      SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF
_________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                      YES       NO    ABSTAIN        ABSENT

                         Councilmember Aston
                         Councilmember Crockett
                         Councilmember Gaston
                         Councilmember Hales
                         Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                                Attest:
          Natalie Hall                                          City Recorder




                                                                                            Page 1 of 2
EXHIBIT A




            Page 2 of 2
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2022-05

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ADOPTING A CODE OF
CONDUCT AND PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE POLICY.

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”), from time to time, reviews and
adopts policies and procedures to assist in the efficient utilization of resources and the fair and
uniform application of requirements and benefits to employees of the City of Bluffdale (the “City”);
and

         WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed policy to adopt and has
determined that the proposal are in the best interest of the City, including its employees, elected
official, appointed officials, and residents; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Adoption. The City Council does hereby adopt the policy attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

      SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF
_________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                     YES       NO    ABSTAIN        ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                               Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                          City Recorder




                                                                                           Page 1 of 1
                     CODE OF CONDUCT AND PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURES



I.    INTRODUCTION

The Bluffdale City Council believes that all public servants need to maintain the highest standards
of ethical conduct. Of similar importance, there is an increasing expectation that public meetings
are conducted in a democratic manner. This policy is designed to describe the manner in which
the council should conduct themselves as a public servant. It also provides the parliamentary
procedure for meetings of the city council. While this policy is directed for city council members,
it shall also apply to city commissions, boards, and committees. This policy will refer to members
of the city council, including the mayor, as “members”.

II.   CODE OF CONDUCT

Elected and appointed officials are individuals with a wide variety of backgrounds, personalities,
values, opinions, and goals. Despite this diversity, all have chosen to serve in public office in order
to preserve and protect the present and the future of the community. In all cases, the council shall
comply with the below guidelines.

      A. Compliance with Ethics Act. Members shall comply with all provisions of the Municipal
          Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act found in Utah Code § 10-3-1301 et seq.

      B. Mayoral Role. It is the responsibility of the mayor (as the chair) to keep the comments of
          the members and the public on track during public meetings. Members should honor
          efforts by the chair to focus discussion on current agenda items. If there is disagreement
          about the agenda or the chair’s actions, those objections should be voiced politely and
          with reason, following procedures outlined in parliamentary procedures below.

      C. Conduct of the Members. The professional and personal conduct of the members while
          exercising their office must be above reproach and avoid even the appearance of
          impropriety. Members shall refrain from abusive conduct, personal charges, or verbal
          attacks upon the character or motives of others.

      D. Discussions and Debate. Difficult questions, tough challenges to a particular point of
          view, and criticism of ideas and information are legitimate elements of debate by a free
          democracy in action. Free debate does not require nor justify, however, members to
          make belligerent, personal, impertinent, slanderous, threatening, abusive, or disparaging
          comments.


                                                        Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                              Page 1
   E. Conduct at Public Meetings. Making the public feel welcome is an important part of the
        democratic process. No signs of partiality, prejudice, or disrespect should be evident on
        the part of a member towards an individual participating in a public forum. Every effort
        should be made to be fair and impartial in listening to public comment.

   F. Confidential Information. Members shall maintain the confidentiality of all written
        materials and verbal information provided to members which is confidential or
        privileged, including items discussed in a closed meeting. Members shall neither disclose
        confidential information without proper authorization, nor use such information to
        advance their personal, financial, or other private interests.

   G. Conduct with Staff. Governance of the city relies on the cooperative efforts of elected
        officials, appointed officials, and city staff. Therefore, every effort should be made to be
        cooperative and show mutual respect for the contributions made by everyone for the
        good of the community.

   H. Positive Workplace Environment. Members shall support the maintenance of a positive
        and constructive workplace environment for staff and for citizens and businesses dealing
        with the city. Members shall recognize their special role in dealings with city employees
        to in no way create the perception of inappropriate direction to staff.

   I.   Sanctions. A member who intentionally and repeatedly do not follow proper conduct
        may be reprimanded or formally censured by the city council, lose assignments (both
        within the city and with other agencies) or other privileges afforded by the city council.
        Serious infractions of the Code of Conduct could lead to other sanctions as deemed
        appropriate by the city council.

III. PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.

   A. Pattern of Meetings. Councils usually follow a fixed pattern in conducting their meetings.
        The order is arranged for convenience and enables members to know in advance when
        each type of business will be considered. The order of business is at the discretion of the
        mayor.

   B. Agenda. Pursuant to BCC § 1.60.020.E., a written agenda for each regular meeting is
        prepared by the city manager. If any member desires to add an item or items to any
        prepared agenda, then written consent must be obtained from two members or from the
        mayor alone. Upon receiving the proper request from either two members or from the
        mayor, the city manager will add or delete items to the agendas as requested. A majority
        vote is needed to delete an item from an agenda, which can be done before or during a
        council meeting.

   C. Discussing Agenda Items. A member obtains the floor in the same manner as he does to
        propose a motion. Once a member has been recognized by the chair for the purpose of

                                                      Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                            Page 2
    a statement, that person must be protected in his right to speak, so long as he observes
    the rules of decorum and confines his/her remarks to the subject. Debate is restricted to
    the measure under consideration, and neither its proposer nor his motives can be
    discussed. The rules of debate require that all discussion be impersonal and that it be
    addressed to the chair.

D. How Motions Are Handled. In a broad sense a motion is a formal statement of a proposal
    for the governing body to consider and vote upon. It is well to become familiar with the
    steps of handling a motion and with their phraseology. Only after these mechanics of a
    motion become second nature can one concentrate on the content of the motion. The
    following are the steps in handling a motion:

    1   Addressing the Chair. Any member of the council may propose a motion. A member
        may do this at any appropriate time. To present a motion, a member addresses the
        chair by his/her official title; for example: “Mayor Smith”. Addressing the chair is
        equivalent to requesting permission to present a motion or to discuss a motion
        already presented.

    2   Recognition by the Chair. The chair recognizes a member by calling their name, or by
        nodding to them, or by designating that person in some other way. As soon as the
        chair recognizes a member, that member is entitled to the undivided attention of the
        council while that person proposes or discusses a motion.

    3   Proposing a Motion. A motion is a proposal that the assembly take certain actions. It
        is always stated in the form: “I move …” followed by the proposal to be considered.
        This is the correct form for proposing a motion because it establishes, as a motion,
        the proposal which follows. Such introductory phrases as “I suggest,” or “I move
        you,” or “I so move,” may get the desired result, but are not good form. Motions
        should be made in the positive and not in the negative. A correct example is “I move
        to approve …” not “I move to deny …”

    4   Seconding a Motion. After a member has proposed a motion, it is then in order for
        another member to second the motion. The seconding member says: “I second the
        motion.” If the chair does not hear a second to a motion, the chair should ask, “Is
        there a second to the motion that …” and repeat the motion, since it may be that
        some of the members have not understood its meaning. If no second is forthcoming,
        the mayor declares the motion “lost for want of a second.” Seconding a motion
        means that the seconder wishes to have the motion presented to the assembly for
        consideration. It does not necessarily imply that the seconder favors the motion or
        intends to vote for it. Requirement of a motion and a second is based on the belief
        that at least two members should be interested in the discussion of a proposition
        before a motion is presented to the assembly.



                                                Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                      Page 3
    5   Statement of Motion by the Chair. As soon as a motion has been properly moved and
        seconded, it is the duty of the chair to state the motion promptly to the council. Until
        the chair has done so, the motion is under the control of its maker and can be
        withdrawn or modified by him as he wishes. Once the motion has been stated to the
        council, it is in the possession of the body to do with it as it chooses. If a motion is
        proposed in a form which is misleading, vague, or overly complicated, it is the duty
        of the chair to request the member to rephrase the motion. If the chair rephrases the
        motion, the chair should make sure that the meaning is not changed. The chair
        should ask the member whether the rephrased motion, as stated to the council,
        expresses the proposal correctly. If a motion proposes action which is contrary to
        law, rules, is obviously dilatory (that is, made for the purpose of delaying business),
        or is completely unsuitable for the consideration of the council, the chair should rule
        it out of order. The chair may say, “The chair rules your motion out of order,” and
        state the reason for so doing.

    6   Voting on a Motion. When it appears that all members who wish to discuss the
        question have done so, the chair may inquire: “Is there any further discussion?” or
        “Are you ready for the vote?” This query gives notice that debate is about to close,
        and that if any member wishes to claim the floor, they should do so immediately. If
        no one claims the floor, the chair, after a pause, puts the question to vote. The
        announcement of the vote by the chair is the last step in the production line which
        has carried the motion from its introduction by an individual member to its disposal
        by vote of the council.

E. The Precedence And Classification Of Motions. The rank of motions, which is called
    “precedence,” keeps the business of the meeting going with efficiency, and every motion
    is attended to in its proper turn. The order of precedence of motions is based on the
    degree of their urgency; and it is logical and easy to understand. The following is a list of
    the more important motions, arranged in the order of their precedence are listed in the
    table below.

    1   Four Types of Motions.

        a    Main Motions. This group is made up of motions which bring subjects (as
             contrasted with procedural questions) before the council for decision. These
             motions constitute the principal business of a meeting. They are the most
             important of all motions because they bring the main business before the
             meeting.

        b    Subsidiary Motions. This group is made up of seven motions which are
             alternative methods of changing or disposing of the main motion. Their name
             derives from the fact that they are subsidiary to the main motion and, therefore,
             can be proposed only when a main motion is before the council. If a main


                                                  Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                        Page 4
        motion is pending and some members do not wish to vote on it directly at the
        time, they have several choices as to how the motion may be modified or
        disposed of. For example, one member may believe that it is an unsuitable
        motion for the council to consider and may move to postpone it indefinitely.
        Another may think that the motion should be changed so that it conforms more
        closely to the ideas of the council and may move to amend it.

    c   Incidental Motions. The motions of this group arise incidentally out of the
        business that is before the council. In general, they are concerned with the rights
        and privileges of members. They have only a few characteristics in common.
        The purpose of this group of motions is to handle procedural problems which
        arise out of the consideration of other questions. These problems, naturally,
        must be settled before consideration can be given to the question out of which
        they arise. Incidental motions are not included in the list of precedence because
        they may be proposed at any time and must be decided whenever they arise.
        Therefore, they present no problem of precedence.

    d   Privileged Motions. This small group is composed of motions which are so
        important that they are given privileges not accorded to other motion. They are,
        in effect, main motions that, because of their urgency, must be decided before
        the pending question. They relate to the members and to the council rather
        than to the main motion.

2   Rules of Precedence. The chief purpose of dividing motions into four groups is to
    determine their rank or precedence. This rank is fixed and definite and is based on
    logical reasoning. It is simple to understand and to apply. It is not necessary to
    memorize the precedence of the important motions. Practice in using them will
    soon fix their rank in your mind because their order is so logical that they could not
    be effectively arranged in any radically different way. There are two important rules
    of precedence: 1. When a motion is pending, any motion of a higher rank may be
    proposed, but no motion of lower rank is in order. The motion to adjourn (No. 1) has
    the highest rank, and a main motion (No. 11) has the lowest. If a main motion (No.
    11) is pending, any motion of higher rank (No. 10 to 1) can be proposed. If No. 8 is
    pending, No. 7 to No. 1 can all be proposed, but No. 9 or No. 10 cannot. 2. Motions
    are considered and voted upon in inverse order to the order of their proposal, the
    last one proposed being considered and disposed of first. For example, if motions
    No. 11, 10, 7 and 2 were proposed in that order, they would be considered and voted
    upon in the following order: No. 2, 7, 10 and 11.




                                            Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                  Page 5
IV. PRINCIPAL RULES GOVERNING MOTIONS

Order of Precedence                     Can Interrupt   Requires a   Debatable?     Amendable?           Vote Required?
                                        Speaker?        Second?
Privileged Motions (Top Priority)
   1. Adjourn                           No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   2. Recess                            No              Yes          No             Yes                  Majority
   3. Question of Privilege             Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
Subsidiary Motions (Second Priority)
   4. Postpone Temporarily              No              Yes          No             No                   Majority
   5. Vote Immediately                  No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   6. Limit Debate                      No              Yes          No             Yes                  Two-thirds
   7. Postpone Definitely               No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   8. Refer to Committee                No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   9. Amend or Substitute               No              Yes          Yes            Yes                  Majority
   10. Postpone Indefinitely            No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Main Motions (Last Priority)
   11. General Main Motion              No              Yes          Yes            No                   Majority
Incidental Motions (Resolve immediately)
    12. Appeal                           Yes            Yes          Yes            No                   Tie or Majority
   13. Point of Order                   Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   14. Parliamentary Inquiry            Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote
   15. Withdraw a Motion                No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   16. Suspend Rules                    No              Yes          No             No                   Two-thirds
   17. Object to Consideration          Yes             No           No             No                   Two-thirds
   18. Division of a Question           No              No           No             No                   No Vote
   19. Division of Assembly             Yes             No           No             No                   No Vote



                                                                                  Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                                                        Page 6
V.   DEFINITIONS

     ADJOURN: To terminate a meeting officially.

     ADOPT: To approve, to give effect to.

     AFFIRMATIVE VOTE: A “yes” or “aye” vote to a question before a council; an agreement to its
     acceptance.

     AGENDA: The official list of business to be considered at a meeting.

     AMEND: To change, by adding, deleting, or substituting works or provisions.

     ANNUL: To void or cancel an action previously taken.

     APPEAL: A decision of the presiding officer may be appealed from. An appeal requires that the
     decision be referred to the council for its determination by a vote.

     DEBATABLE: Capable of being discussed.

     DIVISION OF QUESTION: Separation of a main motion into two or more independent parts,
     each of which is capable of standing alone.

     GENERAL CONSENT: An informal method of disposing of routine and generally favored
     proposals by the chairman assuming the group’s approval, unless objection is raised. Also
     called “unanimous consent.”

     INCIDENTAL MOTIONS: Motions relating to questions that arise incidentally out of the
     business, or order or manner of considering the business of a council.

     LIMIT DEBATE: To place restrictions on the time to be devoted to debate on a question or the
     number of speakers or the time allotted each.

     MAIN MOTION: A motion presenting a subject to a council for discussion and decision.

     NEW BUSINESS: Any business other than unfinished or “old business” that may properly be
     brought before a council.

     OBJECT TO CONSIDERATION: To oppose discussion and decision of a main motion.

     ORDER OF BUSINESS: The formal program of sequence of different items or classes of
     business arranged in the order in which they are to be considered.

     ORDINANCE: Law made by the legislative body of a municipality.



                                                      Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                            Page 7
PENDING QUESTION: A question, or motion, before the council which has not yet been voted
upon.

POINT OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE: A challenge to a speaker to defend or apologize for
comments that a fellow member considers offensive.

POSTPONE TEMPORARILY: To defer consideration of a motion until the council chooses to
take it up again. The old form of the motion was “lay on the table.”

PRECEDENCE: The right of prior proposal and consideration of one motion over another, or
the order or priority of consideration.

PRIVILEGED MOTIONS: The class of motions having the highest priority.

QUESTION OF PRIVILEGE: Request or motion affecting the comfort or convenience of the
council or one of its members.

RECONSIDER: Motion to cancel the effect of a vote so that the question may be reviewed and
redecided.

REFER TO COMMITTEE: Motion to delegate work to a small group of members for study,
decision or action.

RESUME CONSIDERATION: To take up for consideration a motion that has been tabled. The
old form of the motion was “take from the table.”

SPECIAL COMMITTEE: A committee appointed to accomplish a particular task and to submit
a special report. It ceases to exist when its task is completed.

SPECIAL MEETING: A meeting called to consider certain specific business that must be set
forth in the call.

STANDING COMMITTEE: A committee to handle all business on a certain subject that may be
referred to it, and usually having a term of service corresponding to the term of office of the
officers of the organization.

TABLE TO A TIME CERTAIN: To defer consideration of a motion or report until a specific time.

TABLE TO A TIME UNCERTAIN: To postpone a motion until a later, but as yet undetermined,
time.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS: Any business deferred by a motion to postpone to a definite time, or
any business that was incomplete when the previous meeting adjourned. Unfinished
business has a preferred status at the following meeting.



                                                 Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                       Page 8
VIVA VOCE VOTE: A vote taken by calling for “ayes” and “noes” and judged by volume of voice
response. Sometimes called “voice vote.”

VOTE IMMEDIATELY: Motion to close debate, shut off subsidiary motion and take a vote at
once.

WITHDRAW: Motion by a member to remove his motion from consideration by the council.




                                               Code of Conduct and Parliamentary Procedures
                                                                                     Page 9
                                  CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-03

                A RESOLUTION APPOINTING A TREASURER AND A RECORDER

       WHEREAS the Bluffdale City Council (“Council”) met in regular session on January 12,
2022 to consider, among other things, appointing a Treasurer and a Recorder; and
        WHEREAS UTAH CODE § 10-3-916 provides that on or before the first Monday in
February following a municipal election, the Mayor shall appoint with the advice and consent
of the City Council a qualified person to the offices of Treasurer and Recorder; and
      WHEREAS the Mayor hereby confirms her nomination of Bruce Kartchner as Treasurer
and Wendy Deppe as Recorder; and
        WHEREAS after careful consideration the Council hereby determines that it is in the
best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Bluffdale City to consent to the
appointments of Bruce Kartchner as Treasurer and Wendy Deppe as Recorder.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL:

      Section 1.    Appointment. That the Mayor’s appointment of Bruce Kartchner as
Treasurer and Wendy Deppe as Recorder be made with the advice and consent of the City
Council.
       Section 2.    Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon its passage and authorizes and directs the Mayor to execute and cause to be delivered
the same.

PASSED ADOPTED AND APPROVED the 12th day of January, 2022.


                                                         By: ________________________
                                                             Mayor Natalie Hall
ATTEST:

___________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder

Voting by the City Council:              Aye         Nay

Council Member Aston                    _____        _____
Council Member Crockett                 _____        _____
Council Member Gaston                   _____        _____
Council Member Hales                    _____        _____
Council Member Kallas                   _____        _____
                                  CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                                  RESOLUTION NO. 2022-03

                A RESOLUTION APPOINTING A TREASURER AND A RECORDER

       WHEREAS the Bluffdale City Council (“Council”) met in regular session on January 12,
2022 to consider, among other things, appointing a Treasurer and a Recorder; and
        WHEREAS UTAH CODE § 10-3-916 provides that on or before the first Monday in
February following a municipal election, the Mayor shall appoint with the advice and consent
of the City Council a qualified person to the offices of Treasurer and Recorder; and
      WHEREAS the Mayor hereby confirms her nomination of Bruce Kartchner as Treasurer
and Wendy Deppe as Recorder; and
        WHEREAS after careful consideration the Council hereby determines that it is in the
best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Bluffdale City to consent to the
appointments of Bruce Kartchner as Treasurer and Wendy Deppe as Recorder.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL:

      Section 1.    Appointment. That the Mayor’s appointment of Bruce Kartchner as
Treasurer and Wendy Deppe as Recorder be made with the advice and consent of the City
Council.
       Section 2.    Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon its passage and authorizes and directs the Mayor to execute and cause to be delivered
the same.

PASSED ADOPTED AND APPROVED the 12th day of January, 2022.


                                                         By: ________________________
                                                             Mayor Natalie Hall
ATTEST:

___________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder

Voting by the City Council:              Aye         Nay

Council Member Aston                    _____        _____
Council Member Crockett                 _____        _____
Council Member Gaston                   _____        _____
Council Member Hales                    _____        _____
Council Member Kallas                   _____        _____
                                THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                              A UTAH MUNICIPAL CORPORATION

                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2022-04

                  A RESOLUTION DESIGNATING A REPRESENTATIVE FOR
          THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE AT THE ASSOCIATION OF MUNICIPAL COUNCILS

       WHEREAS the City Council desires to designate ____________ to represent the City of
Bluffdale at the Association of Municipal Governments,


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL:

       Section 1.    _______________ is designated to represent the City of Bluffdale at the
Association of Municipal Governments to serve until the time indicated by his/her name.


              NAME                                TO SERVE UNTIL
              ________________                    JANUARY 11, 2023


      Section 2.     This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage
and authorizes and directs the Mayor to execute and cause to be delivered the same.


PASSED ADOPTED AND APPROVED by the City Council of Bluffdale, Utah, the 12th day of
January, 2022.

                                                          By: ________________________
                                                               Mayor Natalie Hall
ATTEST:

___________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder


Voting by the City Council:            Aye        Nay

Council Member Aston                 _____        _____
Council Member Crockett              _____        _____
Council Member Gaston                _____        _____
Council Member Hales                 _____        _____
Council Member Kallas                _____        _____
                                 THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                               A UTAH MUNICIPAL CORPORATION

                                     RESOLUTION NO. 2022-02

            A RESOLUTION DESIGNATING THE MAYOR PRO TEMPORE FOR 2022

     WHEREAS the City Council desires to designate _________________ to be Mayor Pro
Tempore for the calendar year 2022.


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL:


      Section 1. _______________ is designated to act as Mayor Pro Tempore for the
calendar year 2022.


      Section 2.     This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its passage
and authorizes and directs the Mayor to execute and cause to be delivered the same.



PASSED ADOPTED AND APPROVED the 12th day of January, 2022.


                                                     By: ________________________
                                                            Mayor Natalie Hall

ATTEST:

___________________________
Wendy L. Deppe, City Recorder




Voting by the City Council:    Aye        Nay

Council Member Aston          _____     ______
Council Member Crockett       _____     ______
Council Member Gaston         _____     ______
Council Member Hales          _____     ______
Council Member Kallas         _____     ______
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2022-05

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ADOPTING A CODE OF
CONDUCT AND PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE POLICY.

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”), from time to time, reviews and
adopts policies and procedures to assist in the efficient utilization of resources and the fair and
uniform application of requirements and benefits to employees of the City of Bluffdale (the “City”);
and

         WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed policy to adopt and has
determined that the proposal are in the best interest of the City, including its employees, elected
official, appointed officials, and residents; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Adoption. The City Council does hereby adopt the policy attached hereto as
Exhibit A.

      SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.

APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF
_________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                     YES       NO    ABSTAIN        ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                               Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                          City Recorder




                                                                                           Page 1 of 1
                                   CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                      ORDINANCE NO. 2022-01


AN ORDINANCE CREATING A NEW SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT ZONE (SD-X THE
CENTRUM AT BLUFFDALE ZONE), WHICH CREATES A NEW ZONING MAP
DESIGNATION, A NEW ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHAPTER, AND ADOPTS
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR A SPECIFIC GEOGRAPHICAL AREA.

        WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”)
authority to enact or amend ordinances that it considers necessary or appropriate for the use and
development of land in the City of Bluffdale (the “City”); and

       WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale Land Use Ordinance has adopted a Special District special
purpose and overlay zone chapter which allows property owners to propose specific zoning regulations
and plans for their properties;

         WHEREAS the special development district (SD) zone designation is provided in order to allow
the most efficient and creative development of lands that have unique or unusual characteristics and is
intended to be used for development when it can be shown that no other zone classification would be
adequate for reasonable development that otherwise conforms to or furthers the goals and objectives of
the city's general plan and economic development strategic plan;

      WHEREAS, the Bluffdale Planning Commission has held a public hearing and gave its
recommendation to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing and reviewed the subject text amendment
and finds that the subject text amendment will enhance the public health, safety, and welfare.


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        Section 1. Zoning Map Amendment. The City Council hereby amends the official zoning map
from the MU Mixed Use designation to a new designation of SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Zone on
the entire property as indicated in Exhibit ‘A’:

                                                  See Exhibit ‘A’

        Section 2. Text Amendments. The City Council hereby adopts a new chapter in the BCC
11.110.130 entitled SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Zone, which includes the development requirements
for the The Centrum at Bluffdale Project, as indicated in Exhibit ‘B’

                                                  See Exhibit ‘B’

         Section 3.      Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance and
all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.
                                                     1
        Section 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon the
execution and recordation of a Development Agreement which pertains to the subject property.

     PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF _________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING
VOTE:

                                                     YES       NO    ABSTAIN   ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas


Mayor:                                               Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                          City Recorder




                                                 2
                                   EXHIBIT A

                             Property Legal Description

BEG S 89¿55'52" E 1079.57 FT & S 0¿04'08" W 53 FT FR E 1/4 COR SEC 11, T4S, R1W,
SLM; S 89¿55'52" E 116.22 FT; S 44¿45'10" E 35.54 FT; S 0¿25'21" W 765.36 FT; N
89¿34'39" W 43.49 FT; NW'LY 149.73 FT ALG A 260 FT RADIUS CURVE TO R (CHORD N
73¿04'46" W 147.67 FT); N 56¿34'54" W 334.78 FT; NW'LY 33.55 FT ALG A 40 FT RADIUS
CURVE TO L (CHORD N 80¿36'36" W 32.58 FT); N 14¿38'18" W 32.26 FT; N 56¿34'54"
W174.09 FT; NE'LY 79.71 FT ALG A 662.88 FT RADIUS CURVE TO R(CHORD N
47¿47'39" E 79.67 FT); N 51¿14'22" E 470.29 FT; NE'LY 121.20 FT ALG A 806.39 FT
RADIUS CURVE TO L (CHORD N 46¿56'02" E 121.08 FT) TO BEG. LESS & EXCEPTING
BEG S 89¿55'52" E 1215.44 FT & S 798.56 FT FR THE E 1/4 COR OF SEC11, T4S, R1W,
SLM; S 00¿25'21" W 45 FT; N 89¿34'39" W 43.49 FT; NW'LY ALG A 260 FT RADIUS
CURVE TO THE R 149.73 FT (CHD N 73¿04'46" W); N 56¿34'54" W 334.78 FT; NW'LY
ALG A 40 FT RADIUS CURVE TO THE L 33.55 FT (CHD N 80¿36'36" W 32.58 FT);N
14¿38'18" W 17.88 FT; SE'LY ALG A 73 FT RADIUS CURVE TO THE R 70.29 FT (CHD S
84¿10'20" E); S 56¿34'54" E 317.92 FT;SE'LY ALG A 230 FT RADIUS CURVE TO THE L
132.45 FT (CHD S 73¿04'46" E); S 89¿34'39" E 28.49 FT; NE'LY ALG A 15 FT RADIUS
CURVE TO THE L 23.56 FT (CHD N 45¿25'21" E 21.21 FT) TO BEG. 6.72 AC M OR L.




                                         3
                EXHIBIT B

11.110.130 SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Zone




                     4
     SECTION 1:       ADOPTION “11.110.130 SD-X THE CENTRUM AT
BLUFFDALE ZONE” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

11.110.130 SD-X THE CENTRUM AT BLUFFDALE ZONE(Added)



       SECTION 2:           ADOPTION “11.110.130.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE” of
the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE(Added)

The intent of this special district zone is to provide a land use pattern that provides for a
complementary and compatible mix of commercial and residential uses. This zone allows for
the establishment of commercial, residential, and other uses consistent with a convenient and
pedestrian friendly mixed use development layout. It is the intent of this zone to allow for
flexibility and creativity in the arrangement of uses. The purpose is to develop The Centrum at
Bluffdale, a mixed-use community consisting of up to 20,450 square feet of commercial
buildings and up to 236 residential units, including only studio, one bedroom and two-
bedroom units. The Centrum at Bluffdale is located adjacent to Porter Rockwell Boulevard,
Rising Star Way, and Bluffdale Boulevard. Additional internal access will occur through
private driveways. The project includes a privately owned and maintained swimming pool and
other amenities. Adjacent park and trail amenities near the East Jordan Canal will be accessible
to the public. Design guidelines, standards, and specifications in this SD-X Zone are created
with this chapter and shall supersede any conflicting design guidelines, standards, and
specifications in any and all applicable City ordinances. Design standards not included in the
SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale, shall be governed by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale
City Code (BCC).




      SECTION 3:            ADOPTION “11.110.130.020 SITE PLAN” of the Bluffdale
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.020 SITE PLAN(Added)

The SD-X-The Centrum at Bluffdale Conceptual Site Plan consists of approximately 3.2 acres
of commercial, 3.4 acres of residential, and 1.1 acres of landscaping, open space and amenity
area (total proposed open space includes amenities and paved spaces within the residential and
commercial parcels and is not solely landscaped area) for a total of 6.6 acres, as shown in
Figure 1. Total acreages may vary as final site plans are developed and approved.

Figure 1. Conceptual Site Plan




                                                        Page 1
A.
   SD-X Commercial: The commercial areas of the The Centrum at Bluffdale consist of
   approximately 3.4 acres. It is anticipated that up to 20,450 square feet of commercial buildings
   can be accommodated within The Centrum at Bluffdale, depending upon specific uses, market
   demand, right of way requirements, and sufficient parking being provided. Potential commercial
   uses may include retail and office, among other approved uses as shown in Table
   11.110.130.030. Commercial uses will have direct pedestrian connections to community and
   regional trail networks through integrated site design, as well as good automobile access and
   visibility along Porter Rockwell Blvd., Rising Star Way, and 14600 South.
B. SD-X Residential Amenities: The residential portions of The Centrum at Bluffdale will include
   privately owned and maintained swimming pool and amenities, and exterior linear park and trail
   amenities which are accessible to the public, as shown in the (open space) Figure 2.
C. SD-X Parks, Open Space, and Trails Plan: Within The Centrum at Bluffdale, open space has
   been provided to benefit the residential community, create a trail section which is available to be
   connected in the future to existing and proposed community trail systems; and in the residential
   areas, to provide pedestrian connectivity to the retail amenities on site. This plan is shown in
   Figure 3. An onsite pool deck, verandas, dog park and trail areas will provide the opportunity
   for gatherings, picnics and informal play areas for general recreation. The Centrum at
   Bluffdale's active open space includes 1.1 acres in private trails, hardscaped amenity areas, and
   landscaped areas. The trails are available to connect with City trail systems adjacent to and
   within the project area and shall be accessible to the public. However, due to current private
   ownership to the southwest, The Centrum can only connect to the City sidewalk system on
   Rising Star Way in the southwest area of the project.

     A public trailhead area shall be designated for public access and indicated on the conceptual site
     plan providing access to the East Jordan Canal trail system and connectivity to the overall trail
     system throughout the development, as shown on Figure 3. The private parks and trails will be
     informal play areas that include at a minimum turf, trees and an automatic irrigation system,
     which complies with the City's water efficiency standards. As a privately owned and maintained




                                                     Page 2
park, the developer will not request reimbursement for the value of the park land and the
improvements and all parks impact fees will be paid by all residential units. The total active and
passive parks, trails and open space areas are approximately 1.1 acres and will contain a variety
of recreational amenities, such as those outlined in the Amenity Plan in Figure 2 below.

Figure 2. Amenity Plan




Figure 3. Open Space and Landscape Plan




                                                Page 3
D. Transportation Network: The Centrum at Bluffdale's transportation takes advantage of the
   arterial road, Porter Rockwell Blvd., along with Rising Star Way, as primary access to the
   property. Right in right out access is required on Porter Rockwell Boulevard. A signalized
   intersection and lane improvements are proposed to be located at the intersection of Rising Star
   Way and Porter Rockwell Blvd. as warranted. The transportation network plan is depicted in
   Figure 4. Detailed traffic studies are required during site plan review to verify specific design
   and right of way requirements.

   Figure 4. Transportation Network




                                                   Page 4
E. Parking. As a unique mixed used project with a variety of future commercial tenants, and
   limitations on the number of bedrooms in the apartment units, parking requirements at The
   Centrum are specific to this special district. A conceptual parking plan is depicted in Figure 5.
         1. Commercial areas shall be parked at a minimum of five (5) stalls per every 1,000
            square feet of commercial building; approval of this ratio shall be verified during site
            plan review, based on specific proposed uses and a submitted professional analysis.
            The conceptual parking plan shows 138 surface parking stalls devoted to the
            commercial part of the project.
         2. Buildings and uses designated with drive-through lanes shall verify adequate stacking
            and queuing in their traffic analysis during site plan review.
         3. Cross access easement agreements shall be recorded with any proposed subdivision
            plat or before the first building occupancy - as the case may be - between the
            residential lot and the commercial lots to accommodate free movement of vehicular
            and pedestrian traffic and to allow shared parking between throughout the project.



           Figure 5. Parking Plan




                                                    Page 5
       SECTION 4:            ADOPTION “11.110.130.030 ALLOWED USES” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.030 ALLOWED USES(Added)


Only those land uses that are specifically listed in Table 11.110.130.030.010 are permitted or
accessory uses in the Centrum at Bluffdale Special District are allowed in the zone. There are
no allowed conditional uses in this zone.


11.110.130.030.010 Table of Permitted and Accessory Uses for The Centrum at Bluffdale
Special District




                                                        Page 6
Use                                        Use Classification
Bank or financial institution                       P




Home Occupation                                    A1
Laundry Services                                    P
State Liquor Store                                  P
Medical Service                                     P
Museum                                              P
Office, General                                     P
Parks                                               P
Personal Instruction Service                        P
Personal Service Establishment                      P
Preschool/Daycare Center                            P
Printing Shop                                       P
Recreation and entertainment (indoor)               P
Repair Service                                      P
Research and development laboratories               P
Restaurant                                          P
Retail, general                                     P
Trade or technical schools                          P
Trails                                              P
Veterinary Service                                  P

1 In residential units, per Bluffdale City Code 3.060




                                                        Page 7
mo



     SECTION 5:         ADOPTION “11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                       ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS(Added)

     A. ppearance: The SD-X Zone requires specific development standards and regulations that apply
        to The Centrum at Bluffdale. The purpose is to develop standards that will enhance the overall
        appearance of the neighborhood.
     B. Conflicts: Design guidelines, standards, and specifications adopted in this SD-X Zone that
        differ from existing adopted codes and standards shall supersede unless there is a compelling,
        countervailing public interest or they do not comply with adopted fire and building codes.
        Standards and adopted codes not specifically modified by this SD-X zone shall be governed
        by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.
     C. Conceptual in Nature: The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District presents a conceptual layout
        and does not constitute site plan approval. Formal site plan approval is required for all phases
        of development within the Centrum at Bluffdale Special District.
     D. General Standards.
              1. Public utility easements shall meet Bluffdale City Standards.
              2. No trash, used materials, unsightly storage of any kind, or non-licensed or abandoned
                  vehicles shall be stored in this SD zone.
              3. Dumpster enclosures shall be architecturally designed and screened per adopted
                  standards in BCC, and approved during site plan review.
     E. Residential Standards:
              1. The apartment building is allowed to be six stories (four stories of housing above two
                  stories of structured parking) and up to eighty (80) feet in height.
              2. Residential building location is allowed as depicted on the conceptual site plan, with
                  no specific setback requirement, and shall be approved during the site plan review
                  process. Location shall comply with all adopted building and fire codes and
                  accommodate required utility easements, right of way requirements, and emergency
                  access, and all other applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted
                  standards.
              3. Two parking spaces are required for each dwelling unit which may be located within a




                                                        Page 8
           fully enclosed garage or designated in a parking lot adjacent to the residential structure.
        4. No apartment unit shall exceed two bedrooms.
        5. Architectural Design Guidelines: Consistent with the requirements of the SD-X Zone,
           The Centrum at Bluffdale requires enhanced architectural elements and features that
           will result in a residential building that is thematic and include enhancements to visible
           side and rear facades from either public streets and trails or the private park or trail.
           The following architectural design guidelines are the minimum standards for
           residential building which shall also adhere to the design requirements in 11.150 BCC,
           unless otherwise specifically noted:
                  a. Masonry, brick, fiber cement siding, architectural metal panels, patterned
                     concrete and/or EIFS/stucco systems shall be used on all exterior walls. No
                     vinyl siding shall be permitted. Maximum amount of EIFs/stucco is 25% on
                     any one facade.
                  b. Where masonry is used on the front exterior at corners, it shall be wrapped
                     around to the side exterior a minimum of twenty-four inches (24").
        6. The Centrum at Bluffdale shall be landscaped in accordance with the City’s standards
           for water efficiency, percentage of parking lot landscaping, tree, shrub, and ground
           cover requirements, irrigation design, and the overall site percentages approved in this
           SD-X zone.
        7. Street trees, which are shade providing species, not ornamental varietals, shall be
           planted and maintained in compliance with City standards in all park strips and
           adjacent to the trail area. Where a parkstrip doesn’t exist or allow for street trees due to
           utility or other engineering conflicts, street trees shall be placed as close to the
           sidewalk as possible . These trees shall be installed pursuant to the approved site plan
           prior the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and shall be maintained by the Owner.
           In times of inclement weather and lack of availability, landscaping installation may be
           temporarily suspended pursuant to BCC 11.150.050(A)(16). The Owner shall be
           responsible for maintaining the park strips and removing snow from the sidewalk and
           trail areas within and adjacent to the project.
        8. Fencing: The consistent and uniform installation of thematic fencing will contribute to
           the The Centrum at Bluffdale sense of neighborhood. The Owner shall install the
           approved fencing along the length of the trail system on the west of the residential
           building from the building corner and the lot rear corner as shown in the conceptual
           plans. The fence shall be a decorative fence no less than six (6) feet in height which is
           not chain link. The material and color shall be determined during the site plan review
           process. Fencing shall be installed as depicted in Figure 3 Open Space and Landscape
           Plan. It shall be the responsibility of the The Centrum at Bluffdale Owner to ensure all
           fencing is maintained and continues to meet the requirements of the City.

F. Commercial Location Standards:
      1. Setback Requirements. Commercial buildings and necessary appurtenances for utility
         service may be located as depicted on the concept plan with no specific setback
         requirements. Drive-through lanes shall be screened and buffered from adjacent
         sidewalks and trails by at least five feet (5') of perimeter landscaping. Building
         locations shall be approved during the commercial site plan review process and shall
         comply with all adopted building and fire codes, accommodate utility easements, right
         of way requirements, transportation, and access ways, and all other applicable
         provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.:
      2. Commercial Maximum Height: A primary building or structure may not exceed forty
         five feet (450') in height, nor be lower than ten feet (10') in height. All buildings and
         structures must adhere to adopted Building and Fire Codes.
      3. Screening of utilities and equipment: shall adhere to all BCC adopted requirements
      4. Distance Between Commercial Buildings: The distance between any building or
         structure and any other building or structure shall satisfy the Building and Fire Codes
         in place at the time of site plan approval.
G.




                                                    Page 9
   Commercial Parking, Loading And Access:
      1. Parking: Total required off street parking spaces shall be a minimum of five (5) stalls
         per one thousand (1,000) useable square feet for office and retail uses. Sufficiency of
         parking shall be verified during site plan review, based on a professional analysis and
         the specific proposed uses. The spaces shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete
         and be accessed from a public road by a hard surfaced, composed of asphalt or
         concrete, drive approach which meets adopted standards.
         2. Loading And Unloading Area: Loading and unloading and service entrances shall not
            occur on or adjacent to a public street. Loading docks are not allowed and service
            areas shall be screened from traffic with berming, decorative masonry walls, and/or
            landscaping, pursuant to adopted design requirements in the BCC.
H. Commercial Design Guidelines: The Centrum at Bluffdale special district is located at an
   important and visible gateway to Bluffdale and thus requires enhanced architectural elements
   and features that will result in commercial buildings that are thematic and include
   enhancements to all facades. The conceptual architectural elevations and renderings are
   depicted in Figures 6-10, which are to be used as a guide and expectation for site plan review.
   The following architectural design guidelines are the minimum standards for the design and
   construction of all non-residential buildings within The Centrum at Bluffdale. Building design
   shall adhere to the design requirements in 11.150 of the BCC unless otherwise specifically
   noted.
         1. Building Materials:
                  a. Brick shall be utilized as a primary visible exterior material in building construction in
                     the Centrum Special District. Brick or thin brick veneers applied may qualify, and shall
                     be constructed with a minimum of fifty percent (50%) brick on each street facing
                     façade in these areas.. Windows shall be excluded from the calculation of exterior
                     building material requirements. Manufactured (not kiln-fired), Nichiha patterned brick
                     composite material, or imprinted dry-vit, eifs, or similar stucco type, patterned or
                     stenciled as brick do not meet the definition of brick.
                  b. Facades which do not front on Porter Rockwell, Rising Star Way, and 14600 South,
                     brick materials shall make up a minimum of 25% of each facade. Brick shall be
                     utilized as wainscot, window lintels and sills, quoins, columns, decorative features,
                     and/or emphasizing building entrances.
                  c. When utilized as an exterior material, concrete masonry units (CMU) must be colored
                     and feature decorative or architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset, split
                     faced, or exposed aggregate. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable finished material
                     and shall not be permitted on any finished building elevation with the exception of
                     minimal foundation exposure. CMU shall not be painted.
                  d. Additional secondary building materials may include: brick, stone, fiber/cement
                     composite siding, architectural metal panels with reveals, CMU, exposed and
                     patterned concrete, wood or similar material in composition and of a complementary
                     hue and shade to the brick. A maximum of two (2) accent colors may be allowed for
                     secondary materials. Stucco/EIFS/Dry-Vit type systems may be used to accent
                     building design and for wall signage areas in a percentage not to exceed 25% of any
                     one building façade.
                  e. Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to the brick or CMU
                     included in the primary or secondary façade material and shall generally be subtle,
                     subdued, low reflectance, neutral, or earth tones. White is not allowed as a primary
                     building color.
                  f. Brick, rock, CMU, and stone elements of a building shall not be painted to create
                     compliance with the color palette of the site.
                  g. Four-sided architectural design is required. The design of a building shall be
                     considered on all sides of the building with each facade being required to meet the
                     terms of this section and Title.
         2. In addition to City design requirements for windows, transparency and glazing found in
            Chapter 11.150 of the BCC, primary building elevations along Porter Rockwell Boulevard,




                                                    Page 10
   14600 South, and Rising Star Way shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%) transparency
   or window glazing within the first nine (9) feet of the structure; above that, the remaining
   facade area shall have a minimum of 15% windows or glazing. Other facades shall have a
   minimum fifteen percent (15%) window requirement, which can include the use of clerestory
   windows where high ceilings exist. Mirrored glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor.
   Spandrel glass or faux windows may be utilized to meet this requirement where not feasible
   due to building structural design limitations to be transparent. Where spandrel glass or faux
   windows are not feasible due to architectural or structural limitations, an applicant may apply
   for a deviation from strict compliance pursuant to BCC 11.150.060(E).
         a. Glass garage doors, including opaque glass, may be used to calculate and qualify for
            this requirement.
3.       a.
            Figure 6 Conceptual Exterior Elevation




           Figures 7-15. Conceptual Exterior Elevation Images




                                          Page 11
Page 12
Page 13
Page 14
        4. Landscaping: Individual site plans, lots or parcels located in this SD-X shall demonstrate that
           the overall developed area of the project contains a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the
           total developed project area is landscaped, including required parking lot landscaping, as
           verified during each site plan review and approval. Non-irrigated or non-landscaped area, such
           as canal banks and canal roads, do not qualify as required landscaping which meets this
           requirement.
I. Signage:
        1. Signs: All monument, tower, and informational wayfinding signs shall adhere to a
           consistent and unified signage scheme which is consistent with the architectural theme
           shown in Figures 6-10, such as architectural bases of brick. Unless otherwise noted, all
           signs shall comply with signage requirements in BCC 11.220.

       2. Signage which differs from or exceeds the City's standards requirements is allowed as
          follows:
                a. Tower Sign: One tower sign shall be allowed at the entrance to The Centrum
                   at Bluffdale from Porter Rockwell Blvd., which meets the dimensional,
                   design, and locational standards found in BCC 11.22.070 and all other




                                                  Page 15
                         applicable requirements of BCC 11.220, ans shall include an architectural base
                         which conforms to the overall architectural theme.
                      b. Welcome sign. Developer shall install an entry/welcome sign which includes
                         the official Bluffdale logo or Bluffdale as part of the project, as depicted in
                         Figure 10. Said sign shall be allowed to be up to six feet high, shall have an
                         architectural brick base, and conform with the City logo style guide. The
                         welcome sign shall be included in the site plan of and constructed with the
                         building located closest to the intersection of 14600 South and Porter
                         Rockwell Boulevard.
                      c. Informational Wayfinding Signs: Informational wayfinding signs shall be
                         allowed in the project and shall follow the size and location guidelines
                         outlined in city code section 11.220.070 for Informational signs.
                      d. Suspended, Blade Type Projecting Signs: Suspended or blade type projecting
                         signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a
                         minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the pavement, and shall be a
                         maximum of four (4) square feet.
                      e. Electronic message centers not allowed.




      SECTION 6:           AMENDMENT “11.11.080.020 Qualification” of the Bluffdale
Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.11.080.020 Qualification

    A. For property to qualify for SD zone classification the following conditions shall be
       met:
            1. The property to be classified shall be at least twenty (20) acres for residential
               and mixed use projects. The property shall be at least five (5) acres for
               commercial, industrial, or manufacturing projects, or mixed use projects which
               areis directly adjacent to the I-15 corridor and which contains a hotel, or
               projects which front on two arterial roads.
            2. The proposal conforms to the goals, objectives, and density recommendations
               of the city's general plan.
            3. The applicant shall demonstrate to the planning commission and city council
               that development on the property would be constrained by topographic or
               other natural features, by platting or ownership configuration, by impact from
               public utility structures or other public structures or facilities, or that no other
               zone classifications exist that more appropriately suit the proposed
               development of the property.
            4. The development of the property shall prepare a comprehensive project plan
               that addresses development issues specific to the site including, but not limited
               to, architectural design standards, landscaping, street trees, open space and
               parks, trail connections to the city's existing or proposed system, phasing and
               processing of development or similar characteristics.
            5. The entire site proposed for SD district classification shall be included in a
               development plan for review and recommendation by the planning
               commission and approval by the city council as an amendment to the city's
               land use ordinance and official zoning map. (Ord. 2016-05, 5-11-2016; amd.
               Ord. 2019-19, 10-9-19)




                                                         Page 16
     SECTION 7:         AMENDMENT “11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                AMEN DMEN T

11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDSRESERVED SECTION NOT USED




     SECTION 8:       ADOPTION “11.110.130 SD-X THE CENTRUM AT
BLUFFDALE ZONE” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                  ADO P TIO N

11.110.130 SD-X THE CENTRUM AT BLUFFDALE ZONE(Added)




                                                Page 17
   EXHIBITC

(Roadway Expansion)
                                                                             _I. ,'
City Responsible Improve ments                  Developer Responsible Improvements
Begins 100' Wes! of Porter Rockwell Blvd and
                                                 Drive Approaches and Accesses lo Developmenl
is limiled lo !he following ilems:
                                                 Waler Services and Fire Sprinkler Lines
ROW Purchase for Rising Siar Way
                                                 U!ilily S!ubs lo Development
Sawcul & Remove Existing Curb & Guller
                                                 Park Strip Landscaping & Irrigation
New Sidewalk
                                                 S!reel Lighls
New Asphall
                                                 Addition of New Turn Lane for EB Traffic on
Road S!riping
                                                 Rising Siar Way
Adjusl and Collar Existing Valve Boxes lo
                                                 Realignment of Exisling Access to Rockwell Ridge
grade
Relocate Exisling Fire Hydrant Assembly
                                               I Business Park
                                                 Reconsl ruction of Crosswalks
                                               1 Relocale Exisling Fire Hydranl Assembly and
                                               \ Transformer
                                              Scaled Intersection Model   N
HALES fJ ENGINEERING                                                          PROJECT

        innovative transportation solutions
                                                 Bluffdale MXD TIS        A       UT21-1841
                                    RESOLUTION NO. 2022-06

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AUTHORIZING THE
MAYOR TO SIGN A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT PERTAINING TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF
PROPERTY LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 533 WEST 14600 SOUTH, ALSO KNOWN AS THE
CENTRUM AT BLUFFDALE SPECIAL DISTRICT

        WHEREAS, the City of Bluffdale is a municipal corporation and political subdivision of the
State of Utah (the “City) and is authorized to enter into development agreements that it considers
are necessary or appropriate for the use and development of land within the City pursuant to Utah
Code § 10-9a-102, et seq.; and

       WHEREAS, the City has entered into development agreements from time to time as the City
has deemed necessary for the orderly development of the City; and

       WHEREAS, the Developer, L.H. Perry Investments, LLC, desires to enter into an agreement
for the purpose of developing and changing the zoning designation on property located at
approximately 533 West 14600 South (the “Property”); and

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”) has determined that it is in the
best interest of the public health, safety, and welfare of City to enter into a development
agreement for the orderly development of the Property.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Authorization to Sign Development Agreement. The City Council hereby
authorizes the Mayor to sign the Development Agreement, attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

        SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, clause or portion of this Resolution is declared
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be affected thereby and shall
remain in full force and effect.

      SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon
passage.




                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF
_________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                 YES       NO    ABSTAIN   ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                           Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                      City Recorder




                                                                               Page 2 of 2
       EXHIBIT 1

(Development Agreement)
RECORDING REQUESTED BY,
AFTER RECORDING RETURN TO:

Bluffdale City
Attn: City Recorder
2222 West 14400 South
Bluffdale, Utah 84065


                                                                            (space above for Recorder’s use)

                                     AMENDMENT
                                          TO
                                AMENDED AND RESTATED
                               DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
                                         FOR
                               ACLAIME AT INDEPENDENCE
                      (BLAND PROPERTY/ROCKWELL NEIGHBORHOOD)

        THIS AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
FOR ACLAIME AT INDEPENDENCE (BLAND PROPERTY/ROCKWELL NEIGHBORHOOD) (this
“Amendment”) is entered into effective as of the ____ day of _______________, 2021 (the “Effective
Date”), by and between CITY OF BLUFFDALE, a Utah municipal corporation (“City”), and the L.H.
PERRY INVESTMENTS, LLC, a Utah limited liability company (“Perry”).

                                               RECITALS

         A.       The City and Perry, amongst other parties, entered into that certain Amended and Restated
Development Agreement for Aclaime at Independence (Bland Property/Rockwell Neighborhood) dated
February 11, 2014, recorded February 25, 2014, as Entry No. 11809196, at Book 10213, Page 2765-2837
in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder (the “Development Agreement”).

         B.     Perry is the owner of certain real property affected by the Development Agreement located
in Salt Lake County, Utah, as more fully described on Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein
by reference (the “Perry Property”).

        C.      The City and Perry desire to revise the Bland Project Plan (as such term is defined in the
Development Agreement), as applicable only to the Perry Property, to alter the development plans and
requirements for the Perry Property and to implement a New Zoning Ordinance (defined below).

        D.      Concurrent with the adoption of this Amendment, the parties also desire to approve a new
concept plan related to the Perry Property only, in the form attached hereto and incorporated herein as
Exhibit C (the “Perry Concept Plan”).

        E.       The City has the authority to enter into this Amendment pursuant to Section 10-9a-102(2)
of the Utah Code and Chapter 11.290 of the Bluffdale City Code, and desires to enter into this Amendment
with Perry for the purpose of guiding the development of the Perry Property in accordance with the terms
and conditions of this Amendment and in accordance with applicable City Ordinances, rules and
regulations, land use policies and legislative approval conditions.
                                                                                    The Centrum at Bluffdale DA
                                                                                    1_12_22 City Council version
                                                                                                          Page 1
         F.      The Parties intend to be bound by the terms of this Amendment as set forth herein, and the
Parties intend that this Amendment and

        G.      City and Perry now desire to amend the Development Agreement as it applies to the Perry
Property only, as more particularly described herein.

                                             AMENDMENTS

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the mutual covenants herein contained,
and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,
City and Perry agree to amend the Development Agreement as follows:

         1.      Recitals; Defined Terms; Conflicting Terms. The recitals above are hereby incorporated
herein by this reference as if fully set forth in this paragraph. All capitalized terms used and not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Development Agreement. In the event of a
conflict between the terms and provisions of this Amendment and the terms and provisions of the prior
Development Agreements, the terms of this Amendment shall govern. In all other respects, the
Development Agreement, as amended and supplemented hereby, shall remain in full force and effect.

         2.        Change of Light Industrial to Special District Mixed-Use. The Bland Project Plan (as
such term is defined in the Development Agreement), which is attached to the Development Agreement as
Exhibit B thereto, is hereby amended so that all references to the Light Industrial Parcel, constituting
approximately 6.72 acres (which is the same property as the Perry Property) shall instead be referred to as
the Special District SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale. Additionally, Section 2(f) of the Bland Project Plan
is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

                f. SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Revisions

                The SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale area is proposed for approximately
                6.72 acres and is located south of 14600 South and west of the existing
                alignment of Porter Rockwell Boulevard. The area is planned for mixed
                use residential, commercial, and retail uses.

        3.      Adoption of the New Zoning Ordinance. The City and Perry hereby agree that they will
take reasonable steps necessary to enact a special district zone and development standards for the SD-X
The Centrum at Bluffdale in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the “New Zoning Ordinance”). This
Amendment is contingent upon, and effective if, the Bluffdale City Council approving the New Zoning
Ordinance.

          4.     Adopt Concept Plan. The City and Perry hereby approve the Perry Concept Plan in the
form attached hereto found within the Exhibit B Ordinance Exhibits. Applicant shall develop and use the
Property in accordance with the Perry Concept Plan. The Property will comply with the New Zoning
Ordinance and other applicable City Ordinances. The Planning Department, after conferring with the City
Manager, may approve minor modifications to the Concept Plan which are necessary or advantageous in
facilitating more desirable function and aesthetics of the Property.

         5.      Design Guidelines. As applied to the Perry Property only, the design guidelines in Section
3 of the Bland Project Plan are hereby deleted in their entirety and replaced with the design guidelines found
within the SD-X ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit B and incorporated herein by reference.


                                                                                       The Centrum at Bluffdale DA
                                                                                       1_12_22 City Council version
                                                                                                             Page 2
        6.      Commercial Phasing. Perry is required to construct one of the commercial pads before
the City will issue a Certificate of Occupancy for any residential unit. Perry shall also construct the
remaining commercial pads within five (5) years of the completion of the residential building, but no later
than July 1, 2030.

         7.      Expansion of Rising Star Way. The City and Perry agree that the roadway located near
the southern portion of the Perry Property commonly known as Rising Star Way will be expanded and
altered consistent with the concept plan attached hereto as Exhibit C and incorporated by this reference (the
"Roadway Expansion"). Perry agrees that it will dedicate to the City the po1tions of the Perry Prope1ty
necessary to effectuate the Roadway Expansion. The City shall only be obligated to construct, at its sole
cost and expense, all improvements and facilities necessary to complete the Roadway Expansion, pursuant
to Exhibit C, and not be obligated to construct or finance the other items listed in Exhibit C.

        8.      Culvert. 14600 South Street is currently owned by UDOT. If required by UDOT, Perry
shall coordinate with UDOT for the construction and widening of the 14600 South Street over the East
Jordan Canal.

         9.      Confirmation. Except as amended and revised by this Amendment, all tenns and
conditions in the Development Agreement remain unchanged and in full force and effect. In the event of
any conflict between the terms of this Amendment and the Development Agreement, this Amendment shall
control. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, but
all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, City and Perry have executed this Amendment as of the Effective Date.


                                [Signatures and Acknowledgments Follow]




                                                                                      The Centrum at Bluffdale DA
                                                                                      1_12_22 City Council version
                                                                                                            Page 3
                                                      PERRY:

                                                      L.H. PERRY INVESTMENTS, LLC,
                                                      a Utah limited liability company


                                                      By:
                                                      Name:
                                                      Its:



STATE OF UTAH                  )
                               ss
COUNTY OF                      )

         On this ______ day of ________________, 2022, before me personally appeared
___________________, personally known to me or whose identity was proved to me on the basis of
satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to this document, and who acknowledged
that he signed the foregoing document, as the ____________________ of L.H. PERRY INVESTMENTS,
LLC, a Utah limited liability company.



                                                      Notary Public
                                                         CITY:

                                                         CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
                                                         a Utah municipal corporation


                                                         By:
                                                         Name: _________________________________
                                                         Its: Mayor


                                                         ATTEST:


                                                         By:
                                                         Name: _________________________________
                                                         Its: City Clerk


                                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM:


                                                         By:
                                                         Name:
                                                         Title: City Attorney


STATE OF UTAH                   )
                                ss
COUNTY OF UTAH                  )

        On this ______ day of ________________, 2022, before me personally appeared
_________________ and _________________, personally known to me or whose identities were proved
to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the persons whose names are subscribed to this document,
and who acknowledged that they signed the foregoing document as Mayor and City Clerk, respectively, of
CITY OF BLUFFDALE, a Utah municipal corporation.



                                                         Notary Public
                                       EXHIBIT A

                                Property Legal Description

BEG S 89¿55'52" E 1079.57 FT & S 0¿04'08" W 53 FT FR E 1/4 COR SEC 11, T4S, R1W, SLM; S
89¿55'52" E 116.22 FT; S 44¿45'10" E 35.54 FT; S 0¿25'21" W 765.36 FT; N 89¿34'39" W 43.49
FT; NW'LY 149.73 FT ALG A 260 FT RADIUS CURVE TO R (CHORD N 73¿04'46" W 147.67
FT); N 56¿34'54" W 334.78 FT; NW'LY 33.55 FT ALG A 40 FT RADIUS CURVE TO L (CHORD
N 80¿36'36" W 32.58 FT); N 14¿38'18" W 32.26 FT; N 56¿34'54" W174.09 FT; NE'LY 79.71 FT
ALG A 662.88 FT RADIUS CURVE TO R(CHORD N 47¿47'39" E 79.67 FT); N 51¿14'22" E
470.29 FT; NE'LY 121.20 FT ALG A 806.39 FT RADIUS CURVE TO L (CHORD N 46¿56'02" E
121.08 FT) TO BEG. LESS & EXCEPTING BEG S 89¿55'52" E 1215.44 FT & S 798.56 FT FR
THE E 1/4 COR OF SEC11, T4S, R1W, SLM; S 00¿25'21" W 45 FT; N 89¿34'39" W 43.49 FT;
NW'LY ALG A 260 FT RADIUS CURVE TO THE R 149.73 FT (CHD N 73¿04'46" W); N
56¿34'54" W 334.78 FT; NW'LY ALG A 40 FT RADIUS CURVE TO THE L 33.55 FT (CHD N
80¿36'36" W 32.58 FT);N 14¿38'18" W 17.88 FT; SE'LY ALG A 73 FT RADIUS CURVE TO THE
R 70.29 FT (CHD S 84¿10'20" E); S 56¿34'54" E 317.92 FT;SE'LY ALG A 230 FT RADIUS
CURVE TO THE L 132.45 FT (CHD S 73¿04'46" E); S 89¿34'39" E 28.49 FT; NE'LY ALG A 15
FT RADIUS CURVE TO THE L 23.56 FT (CHD N 45¿25'21" E 21.21 FT) TO BEG. 6.72 AC M
OR L.
                           EXHIBIT B

     The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Ordinance and Concept Plan




Please see Agenda Item 8.5.
To be inserted when recorded.
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2022-02

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING THE
CITY OF BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN LAND USE MAP FROM VERY LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
TO COMMERCIAL ON PROPERTY APPROXIMATELY LOCATED AT 13855 AND 13937 SOUTH 2950
WEST.

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council has adopted the General Plan Land Use Map for
Bluffdale City; and

       WHEREAS, the Applicant requested that the City Council amend the General Plan Land
Use Map from Very Low Density Residential to Commercial on property generally located at 13855
and 13937 South 2950 West; and

     WHEREAS, the Bluffdale Planning Commission reviewed Applicant’s proposed
amendment and made a recommendation to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing concerning the proposed amendment;
and

       WHEREAS, the City Council finds that amending the General Plan Land Use Map as
proposed by the Applicant will enhance the public health, safety and general welfare, and promote
the goals of the General Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. General Plan Land Use Map Amendment. The property described in Exhibit
A is hereby amended to change the future land use designation from Very Low Density Residential
to Commercial.

      SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law and when the Development Agreement attached to
Resolution No. 2022-07 is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorders Office.


                                  [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS
______ DAY OF _________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                 YES       NO    ABSTAIN   ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                           Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                      City Recorder




                                                                                Page 2 of 2
                                           EXHIBIT A

                               (Legal Description of the Property)

13855 South 2950 West = 3.60 acres
Parcel 33-04-3260020000 Legal description:


BEG N 89"51' W 993.19 FT & S 0"01'21" W 91.26 FT FR CEN SEC 4, T 4S, R 1W, SLM; S 0"01'21" W
572 FTM ORL; N 89"52'22" W 263.16 FT M ORL; N 0"01'51" E 620.41 FT M OR L; S 79"27'01" E 267.57
FT M OR L TO BEG. 3.6 AC M OR L. 8091-1657




13937 South 2950 West = 1.99 acres
Parcel 33043260040000 Legal description:


BEG N 89"51' W 993.19 FT & S 0"01'21" W 663.26 FT FR CEN SEC4, T 4S, R 1W, SLM; S 0"01'21" W
331.61 FT M OR L; N 89"53'03" W 263.21 FT M OR L; N 0"01'51" E 331.67 FT M OR L; S 89"52'22" E
263.16 FT M OR L TO BEG. 1.99 AC M OR L. 5274-15,17 7718-1433
8091-1657
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2022-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, REZONING
PROPERTY APPROXIMATELY LOCATED AT 13855 AND 13937 SOUTH 2950 WEST FROM THE R-
1-43 ZONE TO THE GC-1 ZONE.

     WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council has adopted the Zoning Ordinance with the
accompanying Zoning Map; and

       WHEREAS, the Applicant proposed that the City Council amend the Zoning Map by
rezoning the below-described property; and

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale Planning Commission reviewed the proposed rezoning and made
a recommendation to the City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council held a public hearing concerning the proposed rezoning; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the rezoning will enhance the public health, safety
and welfare and promote the goals of the General Plan.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Rezone. The property described in Exhibit A is hereby reclassified from the
R-1-43 Zone to the GC-1 Zone.

      SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law and when the Development Agreement attached to
Resolution No. 2022-07 is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorders Office.


                                  [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                                                          Page 1 of 2
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS
______ DAY OF _________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                 YES       NO    ABSTAIN   ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                           Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                      City Recorder




                                                                                Page 2 of 2
                                           EXHIBIT A

                               (Legal Description of the Property)

13855 South 2950 West = 3.60 acres
Parcel 33-04-3260020000 Legal description:


BEG N 89"51' W 993.19 FT & S 0"01'21" W 91.26 FT FR CEN SEC 4, T 4S, R 1W, SLM; S 0"01'21" W
572 FTM ORL; N 89"52'22" W 263.16 FT M ORL; N 0"01'51" E 620.41 FT M OR L; S 79"27'01" E 267.57
FT M OR L TO BEG. 3.6 AC M OR L. 8091-1657




13937 South 2950 West = 1.99 acres
Parcel 33043260040000 Legal description:


BEG N 89"51' W 993.19 FT & S 0"01'21" W 663.26 FT FR CEN SEC4, T 4S, R 1W, SLM; S 0"01'21" W
331.61 FT M OR L; N 89"53'03" W 263.21 FT M OR L; N 0"01'51" E 331.67 FT M OR L; S 89"52'22" E
263.16 FT M OR L TO BEG. 1.99 AC M OR L. 5274-15,17 7718-1433
8091-1657
                                 RESOLUTION NO. 2022-07

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
AUTHORIZING THE MAYOR TO SIGN A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT PERTAINING TO
THE DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 13855 AND 13937
SOUTH 2950 WEST

       WHEREAS, the City of Bluffdale is a municipal corporation and political subdivision
of the State of Utah (the “City) and is authorized to enter into development agreements
that it considers are necessary or appropriate for the use and development of land within
the City pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-102, et seq.; and

       WHEREAS, the City has entered into development agreements from time to time as
the City has deemed necessary for the orderly development of the City; and

       WHEREAS, the Developer, D&H Stewart Family Holdings LLC, desires to enter into an
agreement for the purpose of developing and changing the zoning designation on property
located at approximately 13855 and 13937 South 2950 West (the “Property”); and

       WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”) has determined that it is in
the best interest of the public health, safety, and welfare of City to enter into a development
agreement for the orderly development of the Property.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Authorization to Sign Development Agreement. The City Council
hereby authorizes the Mayor to sign the Development Agreement, attached hereto as
Exhibit 1.

       SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, clause or portion of this Resolution is
declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be affected
thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.

       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
upon passage.




                                                                                       Page 1 of 2
APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______
DAY OF _________________________, 2022 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                 YES       NO   ABSTAIN    ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales
                        Councilmember Kallas



Mayor:                                           Attest:
         Natalie Hall                                      City Recorder




                                                                               Page 2 of 2
       EXHIBIT 1

(Development Agreement)
After recording, please send to:

Bluffdale City
Attn: City Recorder
2222 West 14400 South
Bluffdale, Utah 84065

Affected Parcel No(s): 33043260040000 and 33043260020000

                            DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

      This Development Agreement (this “Agreement”) is between Bluffdale City, a Utah
municipal corporation (“City”) and D&H Stewart Family Holdings, LLC, a Utah corporation
(“Applicant”).

                                          RECITALS

       WHEREAS, Applicant has rights to certain real property identified as Salt Lake County
Assessor Parcel Number(s): 33043260040000 and 33043260020000, which is specifically
described in attached Exhibit A (the “Property”); and

       WHEREAS, the Property is subject to the planning and land use ordinances of
Bluffdale City and is approximately located at 13855 South 2950 West, Bluffdale, Utah; and

       WHEREAS, the Property is currently zoned R-1-43 with a future land-use designation
of very low density residential; and

       WHEREAS, Applicant desires to develop and use the Property in accordance with the
concept plan shown in Exhibit B (the “Concept Plan”); and

       WHEREAS, in furtherance of Applicant’s desire to develop and use the Property,
Applicant has requested that the Property be rezoned to the general commercial zone (GC-1
Zone, attached as Exhibit C); and

       WHEREAS, Applicant has requested a development agreement concurrently with its
request for rezone; and

        WHEREAS, the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”), acting pursuant to its
authority under Utah Code § 10-9a-102(2) et seq., as amended, and the Bluffdale City Code (the
“City Code”), and in furtherance of its land use policies, goals, objectives, ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations, has elected to exercise its legislative discretion to enter into this
Agreement for the purpose of regulating the development the Property pursuant to the terms
contained herein and the underlying rezone regulations; and



                                                                 Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                                   City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                             Page 1 of 8
       WHEREAS, this Agreement shall only be valid upon approval of such by the City
Council and pursuant to Resolution No. 2021-54, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit D;
and

       WHEREAS, City and Applicant acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement shall
be enforceable and the rights of the Applicant relative to the Property shall vest only if the
City Council, in its sole legislative discretion, approves the rezone request for the Property.

      NOW THEREFORE, based on the foregoing recitals and in consideration of the
mutual covenants and promises contained and set forth herein, the parties agree as follows:

                                                TERMS

        1.     Recitals; Definitions. The recitals set forth above are incorporated herein by
this reference. Any capitalized term used but not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall
have the meaning ascribed to such term in the City Code.

        2.     Enforceability. City and Applicant acknowledge that the terms of this
Agreement shall be enforceable, and the rights of Applicant relative to the Property shall vest,
only if the City Council, in its sole legislative discretion, rezones the Property.

       3.    Effective Date. This Agreement is effective on the date the last party executes
this Agreement as indicated by the date stated under that party’s signature line (the “Effective
Date”).

       4.     Conflicting Terms. The Property shall be used and developed in accordance
with the requirements and benefits of this Agreement and the GC-1 Zone as of the Effective
Date. If there is a discrepancy between the requirements of City Code, including the GC-1
Zone, and this Agreement, this Agreement shall control.

       5.     Applicant Obligations.

              A.      Concept Plan. Applicant shall develop and use the Property in
       accordance with the Concept Plan shown in Exhibit B. The Concept Plan has been
       developed at a level to indicate project intent but has not been thoroughly reviewed
       against all applicable City Codes. Where not specifically modified by this Agreement,
       City Code shall control to administer land use approvals.

              B.      Uses. The Developer shall have the following permitted uses:

                      Proposed Uses                                           GC-1
                      Bank or financial institution                             P
                      Business services                                         P
                      Funeral home                                              P
                      Medical service/urgent care clinic                        P

                                                               Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                                 City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                           Page 2 of 8
                      Museum                                                   P
                      Office, general                                          P
                      Parks                                                    P
                      Personal instruction service                             P
                      Personal service establishment                           P
                      Preschool/daycare center                                 P
                      Reception center                                         P
                      Recreation and entertainment (indoor)                    P
                      Repair service (indoors)                                 P
                      Research and development laboratories                    P
                      Retail, general                                          P
                      Schools                                                  P
                      Trade or technical schools                               P
                      Veterinary service                                       P


               C.     Hours of Operation: External activities which may result in excessive
       noise (including deliveries, cleanup and other activities) may only be conducted within
       the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., local time.

              D.     Property or Road Reimbursement. If Applicant sells or dedicates any
       property to City, City shall, without any obligation to purchase said property, only be
       charged a maximum price of $6.50 a square foot.

             E.    Compliance with City Code Zone. The Property will comply with the
       GC-1 Zone (included in Exhibit C), except where requirements are modified by this
       Agreement.

                      i.     Specific Design Standards for 2950 West. When the most current
              version of the GC-1 zone was adopted, land along 2950 West was zoned
              residential and not addressed in the existing GC-1 zone text. For the purposes
              of this agreement, compliance with the architectural and design requirements –
              including specific material requirements - found in BCC § 11.30.020.130 (other
              requirements) shall adhere to the requirements for buildings fronting on 2700
              West within the GC-1 zone.

       6.     Minor Changes. Minor changes to the development plan shall be consistent
with the approved Concept Plan and shall be addressed during site plan review by the Land
Use Authority.

       7.     City Obligations. City shall review development applications with respect to
the Property in a timely manner, consistent with City’s routine development review practices
and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
                                                              Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                                City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                          Page 3 of 8
       8.      Vested Rights and Reserved Legislative Powers.

              A.      Vested Rights. Consistent with the terms and conditions of this
       Agreement, City agrees Applicant has the vested right to develop and construct the
       Property during the term of this Agreement in accordance with: (i) the GC-1 Zone
       designation; (ii) the City Code in effect as of the Effective Date; and (iii) the terms of
       this Agreement.

               B.      Reserved Legislative Powers. Applicant acknowledges that City is
       restricted in its authority to limit its police power by contract and that the limitations,
       reservations and exceptions set forth herein are intended to reserve to City all of its
       police power that cannot be so limited. Notwithstanding the retained power of City to
       enact such legislation under the police powers, such legislation shall only be applied to
       modify the vested rights of Applicant under this Agreement and with respect to use
       under the zoning designations as referenced in this Agreement based upon the policies,
       facts and circumstances meeting the compelling, countervailing public interest
       exception to the vested rights doctrine in the State of Utah. Any such proposed change
       affecting the vested rights of the Property shall be of general application to all
       development activity in City and Salt Lake County; and, unless in good faith City
       declares an emergency, Applicant shall be entitled to prior written notice and an
       opportunity to be heard with respect to the proposed change and its applicability to
       the Property under the compelling, countervailing public interest exception to the
       vested rights doctrine.

        9.     Term. This Agreement shall run with the land and shall continue in full force
and effect until all obligations hereunder have been fully performed and all rights hereunder
fully exercised; provided, however, that unless the parties mutually agree to extend the term,
this Agreement shall not extend further than a period of 20 years from its date of recordation
in the official records of the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office. Construction shall be
completed within five (5) years of the Effective Date.

       10.     General Provisions.

               A.     Notices. All notices, filings, consents, approvals, and other
       communication provided for herein or given in connection herewith shall be validly
       given, filed, made, delivered or served if in writing and delivered personally or sent by
       registered or certified U.S. Postal Service mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid
       to the following addresses or to such other addresses as either Party may from time to
       time designate in writing and deliver in like manner. Any such change of address shall
       be given at least ten days before the date on which the change is to become effective:

       If to City:           Bluffdale City
                             Attn: City Recorder
                             2222 West 14400 South
                             Bluffdale, Utah 84065
                                                                Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                                  City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                            Page 4 of 8
If to Applicant:      Kaskade Homes, LLC
                      13775 S. 78 W. Ste. 01
                      Draper, UT 84020

       B.    Mailing Effective. Notices given by mail shall be deemed delivered
seventy-two hours following deposit with the U.S. Postal Service in the manner set
forth above.

       C.     No Waiver. Any party’s failure to enforce any provision of this
Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of the right to enforce such provision. The
provisions may be waived only in writing by the party intended to be benefited by the
provisions, and a waiver by a party of a breach hereunder by the other party shall not
be construed as a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or other provisions.

       D.     Headings. The descriptive headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement
are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or
construction of any provision this Agreement.

         E.      Authority. The parties to this Agreement represent that they have full
power and authority to enter into this Agreement, and that all necessary actions have
been taken to give full force and effect to this Agreement. Applicant represents and
warrants it is fully formed and validly existing under the laws of the State of Utah, and
that it is duly qualified to do business in the State of Utah and is in good standing under
applicable state laws. Applicant and City warrant to each other that the individuals
executing this Agreement on behalf of their respective party are authorized and
empowered to bind the party on whose behalf each individual is signing. Applicant
represents to City that by entering into this Agreement Applicant has bound all persons
and entities having a legal or equitable interest to the terms of this Agreement as of the
Effective Date.

       F.     Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the Exhibits attached
hereto, documents referenced herein and all regulatory approvals given by City for the
Property contain the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof and supersede any prior promises, representations, warranties, inducements or
understandings between the parties which are not contained in such agreements,
regulatory approvals and related conditions.

        G.      Amendment. This Agreement may be amended in whole or in part with
respect to all or any portion of the Property by the mutual written consent of the parties
or by their successors-in-interest or assigns. Any such amendment of this Agreement
shall be recorded in the official records of the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office.

      H.    Severability. If any of the provisions of this Agreement are declared void
or unenforceable, such provision shall be severed from this Agreement. This
                                                         Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                           City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                     Page 5 of 8
      Agreement shall otherwise remain in full force and effect provided the fundamental
      purpose of this Agreement and Applicant’s ability to complete the development of the
      Property as set forth in the Concept Plan is not defeated by such severance.

              I.     Governing Law. The laws of the State of Utah shall govern the
      interpretation and enforcement of this Agreement. The parties shall agree that the
      venue for any action commenced in connection with this Agreement shall be proper
      only in a court of competent jurisdiction located in Salt Lake County, Utah. The parties
      hereby expressly waive any right to object to such choice of law or venue.

            J.      Remedies. If either party breaches any provision of this Agreement, the
      non-defaulting party shall be entitled to all remedies available both at law and in equity.

              K.     Attorney’s Fees and Costs. If either party brings legal action either
      because of a breach of this Agreement or to enforce a provision of this Agreement, the
      prevailing party shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and court costs.

              L.    Binding Effect. The benefits and burdens of this Agreement shall be
      binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective heirs,
      legal representatives, successors in interest and assigns. This Agreement shall be
      incorporated by reference in any instrument purporting to convey an interest in the
      Property.

             M.     No Third-Party Rights. The provisions of this Agreement are intended
      to bind the parties as to each other and are not intended to and do not create rights in
      any other person or confer upon any other person any benefits, rights or remedies, and
      no person is or is intended to be a third-party beneficiary of any of the provisions of
      this Agreement.

             N.   Assignment. Applicant may assign or transfer this Agreement upon
      giving City written notice of the assignment. The notice must contain an
      acknowledgment from the assignee stating that it was abide by the terms of this
      Agreement.

             O.     No Agency Created. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall create
      any partnership, joint venture, or agency relationship between the parties.

       To evidence the parties’ agreement to this Agreement, each party has executed it on
the date stated under that party’s name.

                            [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                               Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                                 City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                           Page 6 of 8
BLUFFDALE CITY                                   Approved as to form:

Signature:
By:                                              Office of the City Attorney
Its:
Date:

State of Utah      )
                   :ss
County of Salt Lake )

        On this ____ day of ____________________, 20____., personally appeared before
me ______________________________ (name of document signer), whose identity is
personally known to me (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) and who by me duly
sworn/affirmed, did say that he/she is the Mayor of the City of Bluffdale and that said
document was signed by him/her in behalf of said Corporation by Authority of its Bylaws or
by Resolution, and said ______________________________ (name of document signer)
acknowledged to me that said Corporation executed the same.



                                                 Notary Public




                                                            Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                              City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                        Page 7 of 8
APPLICANT

Signature:
By:
Its:
Date:

State of                    )
                            :ss
County of                   )

        On this ____ day of ____________________, 20____., personally appeared before
me ______________________________ (name of document signer), whose identity is
personally known to me (or proven on the basis of satisfactory evidence) and who by me duly
sworn/affirmed, did say that he/she is a Manager of _______________________, a Utah
limited liability company, the Manager of _____________________, a Utah limited liability
company, and that said document was signed by him/her in behalf of said limited liability
company by authority of its Operating Agreement or by Resolution, and said
______________________________ (name of document signer) acknowledged to me that
said limited liability company executed the same.



                                                    Notary Public




                                                              Tri City Center Development Agreement
                                                                City Council Version 1_12_22 meeting
                                                                                          Page 8 of 8
                                 EXHIBIT A

                      (Legal Description for the Property)




Parcel 33-04-3260020000 Legal description:

BEG N 89"51' W 993.19 FT & S 0"01'21" W 91.26 FT FR CEN SEC 4, T 4S, R
1W, SLM; S 0"01'21" W 572 FTM ORL; N 89"52'22" W 263.16 FT M ORL; N
0"01'51" E 620.41 FT M OR L; S 79"27'01" E 267.57 FT M OR L TO BEG. 3.6
AC M OR L. 8091-1657

Parcel 33043260040000 Legal description:

BEG N 89"51' W 993.19 FT & S 0"01'21" W 663.26 FT FR CEN SEC4, T 4S, R
1W, SLM; S 0"01'21" W 331.61 FT M OR L; N 89"53'03" W 263.21 FT M OR L;
N 0"01'51" E 331.67 FT M OR L;S 89"52'22" E 263.16 FT M OR L TO BEG.
1.99 AC M OR L. 5274-15,17 7718-1433
8091-1657




                                                        Exhibit A to Development Agreement
EXHIBIT B

(Concept Plan)




                 Exhibit C to Development Agreement
Kaskade Homes
13775 S. 78 W.
Draper, UT 84020
12/02/2021


Bluffdale City
Planning and Zoning
2222 W 14400 S.
Bluffdale City, UT 84065


To whom it may concern:

This letter is written as an explanation to the application for the Development Agreement
Application regarding 5.59 acres located at 13855 S. 2950 W. in Bluffdale City, UT 84065.
These 5.59 acres are broken into (2) separate parcels: 33-04-326-002-0000 (3.6 acres – North
parcel) and 33-04-326-004-0000 (1.99 acres – South parcel) We proposed to change the current
R-1-43 zoning to GC-1. This zone change would allow for the development of (2) commercial
buildings that would be the primary office space for several well-known and reputable
companies.

3.6 acres to the North - Alpine Home Medical.

This two-story office building would span an approximate footprint of 25,000 -35,000 SF for a
total of 50,000-70,000 usable SF. In addition to the pleasing aesthetics of the building itself,
Alpine Home Medical would offer many jobs along with many services and products beneficial
to the local community.

1.99 acres to the South – Lucca Design, Kaskade Homes, Tri-City Construction

This two-story building would span an approximate footprint of 10,000 – 13,000 SF for a total of
20,000 – 26,000 usable SF. Lucca Design’s portion of the office would act as a retail storefront
for interior design services and the sale of home furnishings Tri-City Construction and Kaskade
Homes would utilize the building for general office space as well as a design center for
customers.

Both office buildings will contain storage space within the core of the building for various
products. Overhead doors to access this storage will be constructed out of visually pleasing
materials to uphold design requirements outlined in Section 11.90.020 of Bluffdale City Code.

With the expansion of the GC-1 Zone further to the west with the construction of 13900 S.
(future public road) off 2700 West, we feel that this change from R-1-43 to GC-1 is consistent
Bluffdale City
12/02/2021
Page 2


with bordering properties and would be a great addition to the community and the surrounding
area. With the planned expansion of Bangerter Highway & 2700 W. to a freeway-style
over/underpass, traffic flow and vehicle speeds will increase. With these increases will come
additional noise, making this area less desirable for residential building. These offices would act
as a fantastic buffer not only between commercial and residential zones, but also between
Bangerter Highway and the residential areas to the west. These buildings would keep noise
levels to a minimum and protect the value of the homes in the area.

The proposed site plan, parking, and design requirements along with lot regulations shown in the
attached renderings are all in accordance with the GC-1 Zone rules and regulations. We fully
intend to adhere to the requirements outlined in the Development Agreement.

If you have any questions or would like any additional information, please feel free to contact me
at any time using the contact info below.

Sincerely,




Tod Kirton
Project Manager
385-277-5870
tod@kaskadehomes.com


Attached: Concept for property & Legal descriptions
Bluffdale City
12/02/2021
Page 3



Parcel 33-04-3260020000 Legal description:

BEG N 89^51' W 993.19 FT & S 0^01'21" W 91.26 FT FR CEN SEC 4, T 4S, R 1W, SLM; S
0^01'21" W 572 FT M OR L; N 89^52'22" W 263.16 FT M OR L; N 0^01'51" E 620.41 FT M
OR L; S 79^27'01" E 267.57 FT M OR L TO BEG. 3.6 AC M OR L. 8091-1657

Parcel 33043260040000 Legal description:

BEG N 89^51' W 993.19 FT & S 0^01'21" W 663.26 FT FR CEN SEC4, T 4S, R 1W, SLM; S
0^01'21" W 331.61 FT M OR L; N 89^53'03" W 263.21 FT M OR L; N 0^01'51" E 331.67 FT
M OR L;S 89^52'22" E 263.16 FT M OR L TO BEG. 1.99 AC M OR L. 5274-15,17 7718-1433
8091-1657
South Building- West Elevation
South Building- East Elevation
North Building- West Elevation
EXHIBIT C

(GC-1 Zone)




              Exhibit C to Development Agreement
1/5/22, 5:05 PM                                                         Print Preview




11.90.020 GC-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE
11.90.020.010 Purpose And Zone Characteristics
11.90.020.020 Permitted, Conditional And Accessory Uses
11.90.020.030 Lot Area
11.90.020.040 Lot Width
11.90.020.050 Lot Frontage
11.90.020.060 Setback And Build-To Requirements
11.90.020.070 Projections Into Setbacks
11.90.020.080 Building Height Requirements
11.90.020.090 Distance Between Buildings
11.90.020.100 Permissible Lot Coverage
11.90.020.110 Parking, Loading And Access
11.90.020.120 Site Plan Approval Required
11.90.020.130 Other Requirements

11.90.020.010 Purpose And Zone Characteristics

The GC-1 general commercial zone is established to provide areas within the city where general retail
and service issues can be established. The zone allows for a variety of commercial and retail uses and
limited residential uses. Rezoning to the GC-1 zone should be carefully reviewed to ensure protection of
the existing zone and business district. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

11.90.020.020 Permitted, Conditional And Accessory Uses

      A. Permitted And Conditional Uses: Permitted and conditional uses allowed within the GC-1 zone
         are set forth in section 11-35-2 of this title.
      B. Accessory Uses: Accessory uses allowed within the GC-1 zone are set forth in section 11-35-2 of
         this title. Any accessory use must be clearly incidental to a permitted or conditional use of the
         property. Accessory uses shall not be allowed on a lot or parcel without the establishment of an
         approved permitted or conditional use. (Ord. 2014-18, 12-17-2014)

11.90.020.030 Lot Area

There is no minimum lot area requirements in the GC-1 zone. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

11.90.020.040 Lot Width

There shall be no minimum width requirement in the GC-1 zone. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021

11.90.020.050 Lot Frontage

There shall be no minimum frontage requirement in the GC-1 zone. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021

11.90.020.060 Setback And Build-To Requirements

The following minimum setback and build-to requirements shall apply in the GC-1 zone. Each setback is
measured from the property line of the lot or parcel.
https://bluffdale.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=11.90.020_GC-1_GENERAL_COMMERCIAL_ZONE   1/7
1/5/22, 5:05 PM                                                         Print Preview

      A. Front Setback: Each lot or parcel in the GC-1 zone shall have a minimum front setback of ten
         feet (10').
      B. Side Setback; Corner Lot; Driveway Access; Accessory Buildings:
                  1. There is no side setback in the GC-1 zone; provided, that each building satisfies the
                     building code in effect at the time of approval and issuance of a certificate of occupancy,
                     except those structures constructed adjacent to residentially zoned areas. The side
                     setback for structures constructed adjacent to residentially zoned areas shall be a
                     minimum of twenty feet (20') unless approved in accordance with section 11-16-24 of this
                     title.
                  2. Each corner lot or parcel in the GC-1 Zone shall have a minimum setback on all areas of
                     road frontage of twenty feet (20').
                  3. Each side setback, when used for access to a garage, carport or parking area shall have
                     a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') and shall be hard surfaced.
                  4. The side setback for any permitted accessory building shall have a minimum side setback
                     of fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2014-04, 2-25-2014)

      C. Rear Setback; Accessory Buildings:
                  1. Each lot or parcel in the GC-1 Zone shall have a minimum rear setback of twenty feet
                     (20') unless it can be clearly demonstrated that a structure could be placed nearer the
                     property line without causing a negative impact on adjacent property owners.
                  2. An accessory building may be located within fifteen feet (15') of the rear property line.
                     (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021

11.90.020.070 Projections Into Setbacks

      A. Permitted: The following structures may be erected on or projected into any required setback:
                  1. Fences and walls in conformance with all applicable City ordinances and resolutions.
                  2. Appropriate landscaping.
                  3. Necessary appurtenances for utility service.

      B. Setback Areas: The following structures may be erected on or projected into any required front or
         rear setback not more than four feet (4'), and into a side setback not more than two feet (2'):
                  1. Cornices, eaves, sills, buttresses or other similar architectural features.
                  2. Awnings, decks and planter boxes.

      C. No projections are allowed into a required land use buffer. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021

11.90.020.080 Building Height Requirements

A primary building or structure may not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height, nor be lower than ten feet
(10') in height. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)
https://bluffdale.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=11.90.020_GC-1_GENERAL_COMMERCIAL_ZONE   2/7
1/5/22, 5:05 PM                                                         Print Preview

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021

11.90.020.090 Distance Between Buildings

The distance between any building or structure shall satisfy the requirements of the Building Code in
place at the time of approval and certificate of occupancy. This is in no way meant to eliminate the use
of zero lot line development. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

11.90.020.100 Permissible Lot Coverage

The sum total of all buildings, structures and parking on any parcel in the GC-1 Zone shall not be greater
than eighty percent (80%) of the total area of the parcel unless greater coverage is approved in
accordance with section 11-16-24 of this title. (Ord. 2014-04, 2-25-2014)

11.90.020.110 Parking, Loading And Access

      A. Requirements: Each project in the GC-1 Zone shall satisfy the off street parking requirements
         found in chapter 12 of this title. The spaces shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete and
         be accessed from a public road by a hard surfaced, composed of asphalt or concrete, drive
         approach.
      B. Loading And Unloading Area: Loading and unloading areas shall be located in an area that can
         be secured from public access. Further, loading and unloading shall not occur on a public street.
         (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

11.90.020.120 Site Plan Approval Required

      A. Any request for site plan approval in the GC-1 Zone is subject to all applicable City codes and
         adopted standards. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021

11.90.020.130 Other Requirements

The following additional requirements apply to development in the GC-1 zone:

      A. Landscaping: Each lot or parcel shall be completely landscaped, except those areas used for
         buildings or parking. A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the total area of the lot or parcel shall
         be landscaped. Individual lots or parcels located in a development consisting of a landscaped
         common area may contain less than twenty percent (20%) landscaping so long as twenty
         percent (20%) of the total developed project area is landscaped at any time during the phasing of
         development pursuant to an approved phasing plan. All landscaping shall comply with the
         landscaping and design requirements in section 11.150.050 of this title. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-22-
         2015)
      B. Trash, Junk And Other Debris: No trash, used materials, stored construction materials, excess
         inventory, unsightly storage of any kind, or non-licensed or abandoned vehicles shall be stored in
         an open area. All such materials shall be enclosed in a building.
      C.
                  1. Buildings fronting directly on 2700 West, 14000 South, and Redwood Road - including
                     corner lots - shall not exceed 25 feet in height. Ornamental features, such as decorative
                     roof elements, arches, or entry features may be allowed up to 30 feet in height in these
                     areas.
https://bluffdale.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=11.90.020_GC-1_GENERAL_COMMERCIAL_ZONE   3/7
1/5/22, 5:05 PM                                                         Print Preview

                         a. Second stories may be allowed - up to the maximum height allowed in the zone -
                            when the second story is developed into office space, general retail, or restaurant
                            use as a full story.

                  2. Buildings on parcels which do not have any frontage on 2700 West, 14000 South, and
                     Redwood Road may utilize the full maximum height allowance in the GC-1 zone.
                  3. The maximum building size for buildings directly fronting along 2700 West, 14000 South,
                     and Redwood Road is 20,000 square feet, except that single user retail buildings, which
                     are not subdivided into smaller condominium units or leasable spaces, such as stand-
                     alone grocery stores, pharmacies, hardware stores, clothing stores, or substantially
                     similar single user retail buildings, may be allowed up to 40,000 square feet.
                  4. In addition to City design requirements for windows, transparency and glazing found in
                     Chapter 11.150 of the BCC, primary building elevations along 2700 West, 14000 South,
                     13900 South, and Redwood Road shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%)
                     transparency or window glazing within the first nine (9) feet of the structure; above that,
                     the remaining facade area shall have a minimum of 15% windows or glazing. Other
                     facades in the GC-1 zone shall have a minimum fifteen percent (15%) window
                     requirement, which can include the use of clerestory windows where high ceilings exist.
                     Mirrored glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor. Spandrel glass or faux windows
                     may be utilized to meet this requirement where not feasible due to building structural
                     design limitations to be transparent. Where spandrel glass or faux windows are not
                     feasible due to architectural or structural limitations, an applicant may apply for a
                     deviation from strict compliance pursuant to BCC 11.150.060(E).
                         a. Glass garage doors, including opaque glass, may be used to calculate and qualify
                            for this requirement.
                         b. Where a facade is not visible from any public street or highway, based on a site
                            specific visual analysis of before and post construction conditions, submitted by
                            the applicant and reviewed by Staff, no minimum window percentage is required.
                            However, provision of natural light into the building is strongly encouraged.

                  5. The term brick, when used in this Title and Chapter, is as defined as brick in 11.20 of the
                     BCC, which is a kiln-fired product. Brick shall not be painted.
                  6. Brick shall be utilized as a primary visible exterior material in building construction which
                     fronts 2700 West and Redwood Road and the street sides of corner lots on 13900 South,
                     14000 South, and Porter Rockwell Boulevard. Brick or thin brick veneers applied may
                     qualify, and shall be constructed with a minimum of fifty percent (50%) brick on each
                     street facing façade in these areas, including canopy supports for gas station pump
                     islands. Windows shall be excluded from the calculation of exterior building material
                     requirements. Manufactured (not kiln-fired), Nichiha patterned brick composite material,
                     or imprinted dry-vit, eifs, or similar stucco type, patterned or stenciled as brick do not
                     meet the definition of brick.
                  7. Along 14000 South, on buildings which are not located on corner lots on 2700 West, and
                     in other areas and facades within the GC-1 zone not specifically identified in this section,
                     brick materials shall make up a minimum of 25% of each facade. Brick shall be utilized
                     as wainscot, window lintels and sills, quoins, columns, decorative features, and/or
                     emphasizing building entrances.
                         a. When utilized as an exterior material, concrete masonry units (CMU) must be
                            colored and feature decorative or architectural finishes such as honed, scored,
                            offset, split faced, or exposed aggregate. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable

https://bluffdale.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=11.90.020_GC-1_GENERAL_COMMERCIAL_ZONE   4/7
1/5/22, 5:05 PM                                                         Print Preview

                             finished material and shall not be permitted on any finished building elevation with
                             the exception of minimal foundation exposure. CMU shall not be painted.
                          b. When CMU is utilized as the primary exterior material, brick may be reduced to a
                             secondary material required to be placed on 10% of the exterior surfaces of the
                             facades.
                           c. Pre-engineered metal buildings shall meet all general design requirements found
                              in section 11.150 of this Title along with all requirements of this section in the GC-
                              1 zone.
                          d. Where a facade is not visible from any public street or highway, based on a site
                             specific visual analysis of before and post construction conditions, submitted by
                             the applicant and reviewed by Staff, no minimum brick percentage is required on
                             that facade.

                   8. Additional secondary building materials may include: brick, stone, fiber/cement composite
                      siding, architectural metal panels with reveals, CMU, exposed and patterned concrete,
                      wood or similar material in composition and of a complementary hue and shade to the
                      brick. A maximum of two (2) accent colors may be allowed for secondary materials.
                      Stucco/EIFS/Dry-Vit type systems may be used to accent building design and for wall
                      signage areas in a percentage not to exceed 10% of any one building façade.
                   9. Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to the brick or CMU
                      included in the primary or secondary façade material and shall generally be subtle,
                      subdued, low reflectance, neutral, or earth tones. White is not allowed as a primary
                      building color.
                  10. Brick, rock, CMU, and stone elements of a building shall not be painted to create
                      compliance with the color palette of the site.
                  11. Four-sided architectural design is required. The design of a building shall be considered
                      on all sides of the building with each facade being required to meet the terms of this
                      section and Title.
                  12. Overhead and garage doors, truck bays, loading areas, and truck bays shall not face
                      2700 West, 13900 South, 14000 South, Redwood Road, Porter Rockwell Boulevard, or
                      Bangerter Highway and shall have architectural treatment or painting which includes
                      colors complimentary to the building design (not white) and which include glass and
                      windows. Overhead and garage doors and truck bays shall be substantially screened
                      from view from public streets and adjacent residential areas through the use of
                      architectural concrete block walls, concrete panel walls, sight obscuring landscaped
                      berms, and enhanced landscaping materials and plant types, such as clustered plantings,
                      additional evergreen trees, and installation of materials of larger stature.
                  13. Architectural variations and relief in building walls and rooflines is required every 50 feet.
                      Variations should imply an undulation in wall surface or additional architectural elements
                      that break up the large surface into smaller sections.
                  14. Buildings shall have a pronounced relationship to the public street and any public spaces.
                  15. Building entrances shall orient toward the streets and shall be accessed from a public
                      sidewalk. Where a public sidewalk is not adjacent, the site plan shall clearly delineate a
                      safe pedestrian walkway from the closest public sidewalk to the building entrance. The
                      entrance shall be designed to be clearly visible, and functional.
                  16. Building Placement: Building placement is integral to the site design and the overall effect
                      any development has on surrounding properties. Building placement shall be carefully
                      considered as part of the overall development review.
https://bluffdale.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=11.90.020_GC-1_GENERAL_COMMERCIAL_ZONE   5/7
1/5/22, 5:05 PM                                                         Print Preview

                          a. All buildings shall be located with the main facade facing the principal street to
                             which it has frontage, except that tandem buildings with an internal street layout
                             and parking may be constructed perpendicular to 2700 West. In this case, the
                             building facade on 2700 West and the internal street shall be considered primary
                             facades.
                          b. Buildings located on corner lots shall orient main facades to each street and give
                             architectural treatment to each consistent with this Chapter.
                          c. Buildings located on corner lots should include a prominent architectural feature of
                             greater height or emphasis at the corner where the two (2) public streets meet.
                          d. Buildings should be located as close to the front property line as possible
                             considering site, use, parking, landscaping requirements, and other constraints or
                             requirements.
                          e. Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than parking where
                             feasible.

                  17. The following are encouraged brick features for all commercial buildings identified in this
                      section:
                          a. Decorative brick quoins
                          b. Brick columns
                          c. Brick accent walls or wainscot

                  18. Design shall encourage comfortable and safe pedestrian use, including landscaping,
                      seating areas, walkways, and lighting.
                  19. Street trees with an emphasis on deciduous shade providing species, rather than
                      ornamental, shall be placed in all parkstrips by developer in spacing recommended for the
                      individual species. Where parkstrips do not exist, shade tree species shall be placed as
                      close to the sidewalk as practicable to provide a street tree appearance.
                  20. Lighting should be designed to minimize the number of poles used within the parking area
                      with preferred methods being building mounted lights or bollard type lighting. Pedestrian
                      pathways shall be illuminated using bollard lighting, when lit separately from other
                      approved site or building lighting.
                  21. Outdoor amenities are required for every development on a site with a combined building
                      floor area totaling thirty thousand (30,000) square feet or greater. Outdoor amenities,
                      which can be designed within required landscaping plans are designed for employees
                      and customers. Amenities shall at least create outside seating areas, and may include
                      plazas or other focal points that are inviting to site patrons. These amenities shall be
                      located near focal points and areas where employees may congregate within the
                      development where they will be convenient and comfortable for users.Design Guidelines
                      for Community Gateways: In addition to the general design guidelines for all site plans
                      and buildings found in Chapter 11.150 of the BCC, the following additional requirements
                      apply to all GC-1 zoned properties located adjacent to 2700 West, 13900 S, 14000 South,
                      and Redwood Road as follows:

      D. Large Buildings: Any building larger than forty thousand (40,000) square feet in the GC-1 Zone
         shall be designed to have main entrances on at least two (2) prominently visible sides of the
         building, preferably front and back.
      E. Pollution: No dust, odor, smoke, vibration, intermittent light, glare or noise shall be emitted which
https://bluffdale.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=11.90.020_GC-1_GENERAL_COMMERCIAL_ZONE   6/7
1/5/22, 5:05 PM                                                         Print Preview

           is discernible beyond the premises, except for normal traffic movements. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-
           24-2000)




HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-06 on 5/26/2021




https://bluffdale.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=11.90.020_GC-1_GENERAL_COMMERCIAL_ZONE   7/7
                    EXHIBIT D

(Resolution No. 2021-54 - To Be Inserted Once Executed)




                                          Exhibit D to Development Agreement
                               RDA RESOLUTION NO. 2022-01

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT
AGENCY, UTAH, CLARIFYING THE EXTENSION DATE OF THE TAX INCREMENT COLLECTION
   PERIOD FOR THE BLUFFDALE GATEWAY RDA PROJECT AREA DUE TO THE COVID-19
                            PANDEMIC EMERGENCY

WHEREAS, the Utah Legislature, in the Sixth 2020 Special Session, through Senate Bill 6001,
amended the Utah Community Development and Renewal Agencies Act ( the Act"),
specifically enacting UTAH CODE ANNOTATED (" UCA”) § 17C- 1- 416 (" The COVID- 19
Emergency Extension") on August 31, 2020, which authorized Community Development and
Renewal Agencies such as the Redevelopment Agency of the City of Bluffdale (the Agency") to
extend the collection of " Tax Increment" ( as defined in UCA § 17C- 1- 403) under certain
circumstances due to the COVID- 19 emergency; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the Agency on December 8, 2021 passed RDA resolution 2021-
06 extending date of the Project Area Plan and Budget for an additional two years from 2021
to 2023.

WHEREAS, RDA resolution 2021-06 included a typo listing the end year date as 2021 when the
correct year end date is 2024; and

WHEREAS, the Agency, is clarifying that the correct extension period is from 2024 to 2026.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE REDEVELOPMENT
AGENCY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE AS FOLLOWS:

   1. RDA Resolution 2021-06 shall be corrected to state that the date of the Project Area
      Plan and Budget will be extended an additional two years, as authorized by Utah Code
      § 17C- 1- 416, from 2024 to 2026.


APPROVED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS ______ DAY OF _________________________, 2022 BY THE
FOLLOWING VOTE:



                                                  YES     NO     ABSTAIN       ABSENT

                     Member Aston

                     Member Crockett

                     Member Gaston

                     Member Hales
                    Member Hall



Chair:                            Attest:

         Dave Kallas, Chairman              Mark Reid, Secretary/Treasurer
