                                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                                     MEETING AGENDA
                                               Wednesday, September 15, 2021

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Planning Commission will hold a public meeting on
Wednesday, September 15, 2021 at 6:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible at the Bluffdale City
Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. This meeting will also be broadcast live to the public on the
City website www.bluffdale.com. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by Commission
members may be by electronic means via telephone conference call.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING 6:00 PM
   1. Roll Call.

Legislative Items
   2. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a Zoning Map and Text
       Amendment Application to create the Centrum at Bluffdale Special District (SD), which is located at
       the SW Corner of 14600 South and Porter Rockwell Boulevard, which proposes amendments to the
       Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinance, Title 11, Chapter 11.110, Special Purpose and Overlay Zones, to
       create a new zoning ordinance chapter and map designation from Mixed Use (MU) to SD-X The
       Centrum at Bluffdale Special District for 236 residential apartment units along with various
       commercial uses, including the associated development and design standards for approximately
       6.7 acres, LH Perry Investments LLC, Applicants (Application 2021-31) – Staff Presenter, Grant
       Crowell.

    3. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a City Initiated Text Amendment
       Application to amend Title 11-110-100-040(C) regarding adding home occupations as a Permitted
       Use in the (SD-X) Bringhurst Station Project Zone. (Application 2021-36) – Staff Presenter, Ellen
       Oakman.

Administrative Items
   4. CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Site Plan Application for Brubaker Development for flex/retail
      office buildings in the General Commercial Zone (GC-1) on 2.78 acres at approximately 2790 West
      14000 South, Bangerter 15, Applicants (Application 2021-19) Staff Presenter, Jennifer Robison.

    5. Planning Commissioners H.B. 409 Training on Conditional Use Permits, Land Use and Zoning, Staff
       Presenters, Grant Crowell, Zoning Administrator and Todd Sheeran, City Attorney.

Discussion Items
    6. Planning Commission Business (planning session for upcoming items, follow up, etc.).
    7. Adjournment.

                                                                              Dated: September 10, 2021



                                                                              Grant Crowell, AICP
                                                                              City Planner/Economic Development Director

   In compliance with the American Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this meeting should contact
                                 Bluffdale City at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at (801)254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
Item 2
                                       2222 West 14400 South
                                        Bluffdale, UT 84065
                                          801.254.2200

                                     PLANNING STAFF REPORT
                                       September 12, 2021

To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Grant Crowell

Re:    The Centrum at Bluffdale Mixed Use Special District (SD-X) Text and Map Amendment.
       Application No.: 2021-31
       Applicant:       LH Perry Investments, LLC
       Project Location: SW Corner of 14600 South and Porter Rockwell Boulevard
       General Plan:    Mixed Use
       Current Zoning: Mixed Use* (*with Light Industrial Land Use Designation from existing 2014
                        Development Agreement )
       Acreage:         Approximately 6.7 acres
       Request:         Consideration of a land use ordinance application to create a new mixed
                        use special district land use chapter and zoning map designation for the
                        SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale.

SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS
The applicant currently owns the property located at the southwest intersection of the Porter
Rockwell Boulevard and 14600 South. The property is within the original boundaries of the
boundary of the Independence at the Point Master Plan development agreement, which has been
amended several times since its original approval on December 11, 2007.

The applicant participated in a City Council planning session on January 13,2021, as required to
apply for a Special Development Zone. The Council discussed the project with the developer and
gave feedback. The minutes from that meeting indicate that the following general topics were
discussed: general proposal for mixed use, parking, location near I-15 and transportation, design
elements, ownership, trails, and potential project timeline.

Some key milestones in the land use approval and entitlement process that are relevant to this
property and proposal include:
   • December 12, 2004: Original rezone of 518 acres to Mixed Use
   • December 11, 2007: Adoption of original development agreement for Independence which
      included this property in the Rockwell neighborhood – primarily designated regional

                                                 Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                            Page 1
       commercial
   •   December 17, 2013: City Council added light industrial and industrial park uses to the mixed
       use zone
   •   February 11, 2014: Approval of amended and restated development agreement for Aclaime
       at Independence (Bland/Rockwell Neighborhood) which designated property as Light
       Industrial (the current governing document for the subject property)
   •   May 11, 2016: City Council creates Special District zoning code enabling code (Bluffdale City
       currently has four approved special districts: one residential, two mixed use, and one
       commercial)
   •   October 9,2019: City Council reduced minimum acreage required for mixed use special
       districts near I-15 which contain a hotel
   •   January 13, 2021: work session with City Council to present proposal to create a Mixed Use
       Special District designation on the property

If the zoning amendment is approved for the project, an amendment to the Development
Agreement will also be required to update it to the new land use designation. Subsequent site plan
and subdivision applications are still required following the approval of the proposed zoning
amendment requests to implement the technical aspects and construction specifics.

General Plan, Zoning, and Development Agreement. The Bluffdale City General Plan designates the
subject property as Mixed Use and the property is currently zoned Mixed Use within a development
agreement framework. The City and developer agreed to a Light Industrial land use designation
within the mixed use zone and Independence project in the 2014 development agreement and 2013
zoning ordinance amendments listed above (see below).

2014 Land Use Plan from Approved Development Agreement




                                                  Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                 September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 2
Special District Proposal. The Centrum at Bluffdale proposes a mixed-use special district with an
apartment building with up to 236 units of no more than two bedrooms, and commercial retail
focused pad sites which could potentially have up to 20,000 square feet, depending on specific uses
and layouts. To accomplish this proposal, the developer proposed new ordinance language, along
with conceptual site plans and building elevations. Using existing City Codes and previous
approvals as a guide, Staff modified the original proposal into draft city code, which is attached to
this report. Some key elements in this special district include:

   •   Code language which allows a mixed use special district - such as The Centrum – on a parcel
       that is 6.7 acres in size
   •   That 236 apartment units (studio, one and two bedroom) with a parking structure can be
       established, up to 80 feet in height
   •   Two parking stalls per apartment unit which meets the existing ordinance requirements
   •   That the proposed allowed commercial uses are retail oriented with additional allowed uses
       to facilitate leasing the entire center
   •   That this is an urban like mixed use center without significant public open spaces and parks
   •   A trail corridor with a linear green space near the East Jordan Canal that could someday
       connect to future trail networks
   •   Design standards commensurate with those approved in 2021 with the City wide and
       General Commercial design ordinance updates
   •   One additional tower sign to advertise the project


Layout , Access, and Location: The project is located on a triangular shaped parcel which is bounded
on the south by Rising Star Way, on the east by Porter Rockwell Boulevard, and on the north by
14600 South. Access will come from a right in, right out driveway on Porter Rockwell Boulevard, and
from Rising Star Way. Preliminary traffic analysis submitted indicates that an intersection
improvement at Rising Star Way should add a south bound turn lane. The City is working with
UDOT to confirm that a traffic signal will be placed on Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Rising Star
way when warranted. A conceptual site plan is shown below.

A linear trail corridor is proposed on the west side of the project, which should allow public access
and is intended to maintained by the developer. In the future, this section could connect to other
trail facilities north or south of the project, when developed. Private amenities for the residents are
also proposed.




                                                   Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                  September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                              Page 3
Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
               September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                           Page 4
Internal circulation in the project will be within a commercial area with cross-access and parking
agreements necessary as shown below. The parking garage on the west side of the project has main
accesses on the north and south sides. During site plan review, the exact locations of all driveways,
intersection improvements and drive aisles will be finalized.




                                                  Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                 September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 5
 Parking. Parking for the apartments is proposed at two spaces per unit, which meets the current
requirements found in BCC 11.120.030 Table A for one or two bedroom units. Most of this parking is
proposed to be in an enclosed parking structure, with a few spaces adjacent to the apartment
building on the east side. The parking for the commercial area is proposed in the text as five spaces
per 1,000 square feet, but the conceptual site plans show 109 parking spaces, which is just over six
units per 1,000 square feet. As exact uses and tenants haven’t been identified for the commercial
area at this time, the draft ordinance language suggests that parking is again evaluated and verified
during site plan review and approval.




                                                  Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                 September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 6
Design. As a project that will be very prominent in the City’s eastern gateway, the proposal presents
a modern but quality architectural scheme. Buildings will be pushed closer to the street which
makes their architecture and design even more important to focus on quality design. As the City
went through an extensive process in the last year to update itd design code, Staff has suggested to
use many elements of that ordinance, especially required materials from the GC-1 zone provisions,
such as brick, limitations on the maximum amount of stucco and EIFS, and ensuring adequate
provision of windows and glazing near the streets.

Similarly, Staff is encouraging the sign package to use the City’s code as much as possible. The
developer is asking for an additional tower sign to promote the project on Porter Rockwell
Boulevard that wouldn’t normally be allowed in a commercial project with only 20,000 or less
square feet. The existing ordinance allows for multiple monument signs because of the amount of
frontage in the project. A sign on 14600 South could contain a Welcome to Bluffdale type of
signature but may need to discuss the details and specifics more in the final ordinance and
development agreement. Staff would like to have the ability to still work on specific architectural
and landscape details during site plan review with the Planning Commission. Conceptual
renderings and elevations are shown below.




                                                  Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                 September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 7
Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
               September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                           Page 8
Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
               September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                           Page 9
RECOMMENDATION ON PROPOSED ZONING TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENTS

This is a legislative action by the City and Staff recommends that if the Planning Commission
believes there is good cause to create a new Special District Zoning Designation – SD-X The Centrum
at Bluffdale Zone, they should forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the
proposed zoning map and text amendment, Application 2021-31, and create appropriate findings.
Findings that could be utilized or modified as a starting point for a positive or negative
recommendation could include:
                                                 Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                           Page 10
       1. Consistency with the goals and objectives of the City’s General Plan.
       2. Consistency with the DA for the Independence at the Point overall project.
       3. Location along two arterial roads which are designed to handle traffic.
       4. Future transportation improvements if warranted by this project.
       5. That the mixed-use project is more conducive to desired retail development than the
          existing light industrial land use designation
       6. That quality site design and various commercial uses in an overall project will assist in
          increasing or maintaining value to the commercial community and attract businesses
          which positively contribute to the overall quality of life in Bluffdale City.

MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE SPECIAL DISTRICT ORDINANCE TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENT
APPLICATION:

Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District Zoning Amendment Application 2021-
31 based on the following findings (or modifications):”
       1.      List all findings for positive recommendation…


Motion for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a negative recommendation to the
City Council for the SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District Zoning Amendment Application
2021-31 based on the following findings:”
       1.      List all findings for negative recommendation…

ATTACHMENTS

   1. SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Ordinance Language




                                                  Application 2021-31: SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District
                                                                 September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                            Page 11
                                  BLUFFDALE CITY
                                 ORDINANCE 2020-TBD

       NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of the Bluffdale City, in the State
of Utah, as follows:


     SECTION 1:       ADOPTION “11.110.130 SD-X THE CENTRUM AT
BLUFFDALE ZONE” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                 BEF O RE ADO P TIO N

11.110.130 SD-X THE CENTRUM AT BLUFFDALE ZONE (Non-existent)

                                  AF TER ADO P TIO N

11.110.130 SD-X THE CENTRUM AT BLUFFDALE ZONE(Added)




       SECTION 2:           ADOPTION “11.110.130.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE” of
the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                 BEF O RE ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE (Non-existent)

                                  AF TER ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE(Added)

The intent of this special district zone is to provide a land use pattern that provides for a
complementary and compatible mix of commercial and residential uses. This zone allows for
the establishment of commercial, residential, and other uses consistent with a convenient and
pedestrian friendly mixed use development layout. It is the intent of this zone to allow for
flexibility and creativity in the arrangement of uses. The purpose is to develop The Centrum at
Bluffdale, a mixed-use community consisting of up to 20,000 square feet of commercial
buildings and up to 236 residential units, including only studio, one bedroom and two-
bedroom units. The Centrum at Bluffdale is located adjacent to Porter Rockwell Boulevard,
Rising Star Way, and Bluffdale Boulevard. Additional internal access will occur through
private driveways. The project includes a privately owned and maintained swimming pool and
other amenities. Adjacent park and trail amenities near the East Jordan Canal will be accessible
to the public. Design guidelines, standards, and specifications in this SD-X Zone are created
with this chapter and shall supersede any conflicting design guidelines, standards, and
specifications in any and all applicable City ordinances. Design standards not included in the
SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale, shall be governed by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale
City Code (BCC).




                                                        Page 1
      SECTION 3:            ADOPTION “11.110.130.020 SITE PLAN” of the Bluffdale
Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                 BEF O RE ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.020 SITE PLAN (Non-existent)

                                 AF TER ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.020 SITE PLAN(Added)

The SD-X-The Centrum at Bluffdale Site Plan consists of approximately 3.2 acres of
commercial, 3.4 acres of residential, and 1.1 acres of landscaping, open space and amenity area
(total proposed open space includes amenities and paved spaces within the residential and
commercial parcels and is not solely landscaped area) for a total of 6.6 acres, as shown in
Figure 1.

Figure 1. Conceptual Site Plan




    A.
        SD-X Commercial: The commercial areas of the The Centrum at Bluffdale consist of
        approximately 3.4 acres. It is anticipated that up to 20,000 square feet of commercial buildings
        can be accommodated within The Centrum at Bluffdale, depending upon specific uses, market
        demand, and sufficient parking being provided. Potential commercial uses may include retail,
        office, and a convenience store, among other approved uses as shown in Table 11.110.130.030.
        Commercial uses will have direct pedestrian connections to community and regional trail
        networks through integrated site design, as well as good automobile access and visibility along
        Porter Rockwell Blvd., Rising Star Way, and 14600 South.
     B. SD-X Residential Amenities: The residential portions of The Centrum at Bluffdale will include
        privately owned and maintained swimming pool and amenities, and exterior linear park and trail




                                                       Page 2
   amenities which are accessible to the public, as shown in the (open space) Figure 2.

C. SD-X Parks, Open Space, and Trails Plan: Within The Centrum at Bluffdale, open space has
   been provided to benefit the residential community, create a trail section which is available to be
   connected in the future to existing and proposed community trail systems; and in the residential
   areas, to provide pedestrian connectivity to the retail amenities on site. An onsite pool deck,
   verandas, dog park and trail areas will provide the opportunity for gatherings, picnics and
   informal play areas for general recreation. The Centrum at Bluffdale's active open space
   includes 1.1 acres in private trails, hardscaped amenity areas, and landscaped areas. The trails
   are available to connect with City trail systems adjacent to and within the project area and shall
   be accessible to the public. However, due to current private ownership to the southwest, The
   Centrum can only connect to the City sidewalk system on Rising Star Way in the southwest area
   of the project. A public trailhead area shall be designated for public access and indicated on the
   conceptual site plan providing access to the East Jordan Canal trail system and connectivity to
   the overall trail system throughout the development, as shown on Figure 2. The private parks
   and trails will be informal play areas that include at a minimum turf, trees and an automatic
   irrigation system, which complies with the City's water efficiency standards. As a privately
   owned and maintained park, the developer will not request reimbursement for the value of the
   park land and the improvements and all parks impact fees will be paid by all residential units.
   The total active and passive parks, trails and open space areas are approximately 1.1 acres and
   will contain a variety of recreational amenities, such as those outlined in the Amenity Plan in
   Figure 2 below.

   Figure 2. Amenity Plan




   Figure 3. Open Space and Landscape Plan




                                                    Page 3
D. Transportation Network: The Centrum at Bluffdale's transportation takes advantage Implements
   of the arterial road, Porter Rockwell Blvd., along with Rising Star Way as primary access to the
   property. Right in right out access is required on Porter Rockwell Boulevard. A signalized
   intersection and lane improvements are proposed to be located at the intersection of Rising Star
   Way and Porter Rockwell Blvd. as warranted. The transportation network plan is depicted in
   Figure 4. Detailed traffic studies are required during site plan review to verify specific design
   requirements.

   Figure 4. Transportation Network




                                                   Page 4
E. Parking. As a unique mixed used project with a variety of future commercial tenants, and
   limitations on the number of bedrooms in the apartment units, parking requirements at The
   Centrum are specific to this special district. A conceptual parking plan is depicted in Figure 5.
         1. Commercial areas shall be parked at a minimum of five (5) stalls per every 1,000 square feet of
            commercial building; adequacy of this ratio shall be verified during site plan review, based on
            specific proposed uses and a submitted professional analysis. The parking plan shows 109
            surface parking stalls devoted to the commercial part of the project.
         2. Buildings and uses designated with drive-through lanes shall verify adequate stacking and
            queuing in their traffic analysis during site plan review.
         3. Cross access easement agreements shall be recorded with any proposed subdivision plat or
            before the first building occupancy - as the case may be - between the residential lot and the
            commercial lots to accommodate free movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and to allow
            shared parking between throughout the project.



           Figure 5. Parking Plan




                                                  Page 5
       SECTION 4:            ADOPTION “11.110.130.030 ALLOWED USES” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                           BEF O RE ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.030 ALLOWED USES (Non-existent)

                            AF TER ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.030 ALLOWED USES(Added)




                                              Page 6
Only those land uses that are specifically listed in Table 11.110.130.030.010 are permitted or
accessory uses in the Centrum at Bluffdale Special District are allowed in the zone. There are
no allowed conditional uses in this zone.


11.110.130.030.010 Table of Permitted and Accessory Uses for The Centrum at Bluffdale
Special District


Use                                        Use Classification
Bank or financial institution                       P
Convenience Store                                   P
Gas Station                                         P
Home Occupation                                    A1
Laundry Services                                    P
State Liquor Store                                  P
Medical Service                                     P
Museum                                              P
Office, General                                     P
Parks                                               P
Personal Instruction Service                        P
Personal Service Establishment                      P
Preschool/Daycare Center                            P
Printing Shop                                       P
Recreation and entertainment (indoor)               P
Repair Service                                      P
Research and development laboratories               P
Restaurant                                          P
Retail, general                                     P
Trade or technical schools                          P
Trails                                              P
Veterinary Service                                  P

1 In residential units, per Bluffdale City Code 3.060




                                                        Page 7
mo



     SECTION 5:         AMENDMENT “11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                               BEF O RE AMEN DMEN T

11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

                                AF TER AMEN DMEN T

11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDSRESERVED SECTION NOT USED




     SECTION 6:         ADOPTION “11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby added as follows:


                                 BEF O RE ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS (Non-existent)

                                  AF TER ADO P TIO N

11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS(Added)

     A. Appearance: The SD-X Zone requires specific development standards and regulations that
        apply to The Centrum at Bluffdale. The purpose is to develop standards that will enhance the
        overall appearance of the neighborhood.
     B. Conflicts: Design guidelines, standards, and specifications adopted in this SD-X Zone that
        differ from existing adopted codes and standards shall supersede unless there is a compelling,
        countervailing public interest or they do not comply with adopted fire and building codes.
        Standards and adopted codes not specifically modified by this SD-X zone shall be governed
        by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.




                                                        Page 8
C. General Standards.
        1. Public utility easements shall meet Bluffdale City Standards.
        2. No trash, used materials, unsightly storage of any kind, or non-licensed or abandoned
           vehicles shall be stored in this SD zone.
        3. Dumpster enclosures shall be architecturally designed and screened per adopted
           standards in BCC, and approved during site plan review.
D. Residential Standards:
        1. The apartment building is allowed to be six stories (four stories of housing above two
           stories of structured parking) and up to eighty (80) feet in height.
        2. Residential building location is allowed as depicted on the conceptual site plan, with
           no specific setback requirement, and shall be approved during the site plan review
           process. Location shall comply with all adopted building and fire codes and
           accommodate required utility easements and emergency access, and all other
           applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.
        3. Two parking spaces are required for each dwelling unit which may be located within a
           fully enclosed garage or designated in a parking lot adjacent to the residential structure.
        4. No apartment unit shall exceed two bedrooms.
        5. Architectural Design Guidelines: Consistent with the requirements of the SD-X Zone,
           The Centrum at Bluffdale requires enhanced architectural elements and features that
           will result in a residential building that is thematic and include enhancements to visible
           side and rear facades from either public streets and trails or the private park or trail.
           The following architectural design guidelines are the minimum standards for
           residential building which shall also adhere to the design requirements in 11.150 BCC,
           unless otherwise specifically noted:
                  a. Masonry, brick, fiber cement siding, architectural metal panels, patterned
                     concrete and/or EIFS shall be used on all exterior walls. No vinyl siding shall
                     be permitted. Maximum amount of EIFs is XX%
                  b. Where masonry is used on the front exterior at corners, it shall be wrapped
                     around to the side exterior a minimum of twenty-four inches (24").
        6. The Centrum at Bluffdale shall be landscaped in accordance with the City’s standards
           for water efficiency, percentage of parking lot landscaping, tree, shrub, and ground
           cover requirements, irrigation design, and the overall site percentages approved in this
           SD-X zone.
        7. Street trees, which are shade providing species, not ornamental varietals, shall be
           planted and maintained in compliance with City standards in all park strips and
           adjacent to the trail area. Where a parkstrip doesn’t exist or allow for street trees due to
           utility or other engineering conflicts, street trees shall be placed as close to the
           sidewalk as possible . These trees shall be installed pursuant to the approved site plan
           prior the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and shall be maintained by the Owner.
           The Owner shall be responsible for maintaining the park strips and removing snow
           from the sidewalk and trail areas within and adjacent to the project.
        8. Fencing: The consistent and uniform installation of thematic fencing will contribute to
           the The Centrum at Bluffdale sense of neighborhood. The Owner shall install the
           approved thematic fencing along the length of the trail system on the west of the
           residential building from the building corner and the lot rear corner. The thematic fence
           shall be a decorative vinyl privacy fence no less than six (6) feet in height which color
           shall determined during the site plan review process. Fencing shall be installed as
           depicted in Figure 3 Open Space and Landscape Plan. It shall be the responsibility of
           the The Centrum at Bluffdale Owner to ensure all fencing is maintained and continues
           to meet the requirements of the City.

E. Commercial Location Standards:
      1. Setback Requirements. Commercial buildings and necessary appurtenances for utility
         service may be located as depicted on the concept plan with no specific setback
         requirements. Drive-through lanes shall be screened and buffered from adjacent




                                                     Page 9
            sidewalks and trails by at least five feet (5') of perimeter landscaping. Building
            locations shall be approved during the commercial site plan review process and shall
            comply with all adopted building and fire codes, accommodate utility easements,
            transportation, and access ways, and all other applicable provisions of the Bluffdale
            City Code and adopted standards.:
         2. Commercial Maximum Height: A primary building or structure may not exceed forty
            five feet (450') in height, nor be lower than ten feet (10') in height. All buildings and
            structures must adhere to adopted Building and Fire Codes.
         3. Screening of utilities and equipment: shall adhere to all BCC adopted requirements
         4. Distance Between Commercial Buildings: The distance between any building or
            structure and any other building or structure shall satisfy the Building and Fire Codes
            in place at the time of site plan approval.
F. Commercial Parking, Loading And Access:
         1. Parking: Total required off street parking spaces shall be a minimum of five (5) stalls
            per one thousand (1,000) useable square feet for office and retail uses. Sufficiency of
            parking shall be verified during site plan review, based on a professional analysis and
            the specific proposed uses. The spaces shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete
            and be accessed from a public road by a hard surfaced, composed of asphalt or
            concrete, drive approach which meets adopted standards.
         2. Loading And Unloading Area: Loading and unloading and service entrances shall not
            occur on or adjacent to a public street. Loading docks are not allowed and service
            areas shall be screened from traffic with berming, decorative masonry walls, and/or
            landscaping, pursuant to adopted design requirements in the BCC.
G. Commercial Design Guidelines: The Centrum at Bluffdale special district is located at an
   important and visible gateway to Bluffdale and thus requires enhanced architectural elements
   and features that will result in commercial buildings that are thematic and include
   enhancements to all facades. The conceptual architectural elevations and renderings are
   depicted in Figures 6-10, which are to be used as a guide for site plan review. The following
   architectural design guidelines are the minimum standards for the design and construction of all
   non-residential buildings within The Centrum at Bluffdale. Building design shall adhere to the
   design requirements in 11.150 of the BCC unless otherwise specifically noted.
         1. Building Materials:
                  a. Brick shall be utilized as a primary visible exterior material in building construction in
                     the Centrum Special District. Brick or thin brick veneers applied may qualify, and shall
                     be constructed with a minimum of fifty percent (50%) brick on each street facing
                     façade in these areas, including canopy supports for gas station pump islands.
                     Windows shall be excluded from the calculation of exterior building material
                     requirements. Manufactured (not kiln-fired), Nichiha patterned brick composite
                     material, or imprinted dry-vit, eifs, or similar stucco type, patterned or stenciled as
                     brick do not meet the definition of brick.
                  b. Facades which do not front on Porter Rockwell, Rising Star Way, and 14600 South,
                     brick materials shall make up a minimum of 25% of each facade. Brick shall be
                     utilized as wainscot, window lintels and sills, quoins, columns, decorative features,
                     and/or emphasizing building entrances.
                  c. When utilized as an exterior material, concrete masonry units (CMU) must be colored
                     and feature decorative or architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset, split
                     faced, or exposed aggregate. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable finished material
                     and shall not be permitted on any finished building elevation with the exception of
                     minimal foundation exposure. CMU shall not be painted.
                  d. Where a facade is not visible from any public street or highway, based on a site
                     specific visual analysis of before and post construction conditions, submitted by the
                     applicant and reviewed by Staff, no minimum brick percentage is required on that
                     facade.
                  e. Additional secondary building materials may include: brick, stone, fiber/cement
                     composite siding, architectural metal panels with reveals, CMU, exposed and




                                                    Page 10
             patterned concrete, wood or similar material in composition and of a complementary
             hue and shade to the brick. A maximum of two (2) accent colors may be allowed for
             secondary materials. Stucco/EIFS/Dry-Vit type systems may be used to accent
             building design and for wall signage areas in a percentage not to exceed 25% of any
             one building façade.
          f. Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to the brick or CMU
             included in the primary or secondary façade material and shall generally be subtle,
             subdued, low reflectance, neutral, or earth tones. White is not allowed as a primary
             building color.
         g. Brick, rock, CMU, and stone elements of a building shall not be painted to create
             compliance with the color palette of the site.
         h. Four-sided architectural design is required. The design of a building shall be
             considered on all sides of the building with each facade being required to meet the
             terms of this section and Title.
2. In addition to City design requirements for windows, transparency and glazing found in
   Chapter 11.150 of the BCC, primary building elevations along Porter Rockwell Boulevard,
   1460 South, and Rising Star Way shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%) transparency or
   window glazing within the first nine (9) feet of the structure; above that, the remaining facade
   area shall have a minimum of 15% windows or glazing. Other facades shall have a minimum
   fifteen percent (15%) window requirement, which can include the use of clerestory windows
   where high ceilings exist. Mirrored glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor. Spandrel
   glass or faux windows may be utilized to meet this requirement where not feasible due to
   building structural design limitations to be transparent. Where spandrel glass or faux windows
   are not feasible due to architectural or structural limitations, an applicant may apply for a
   deviation from strict compliance pursuant to BCC 11.150.060(E).
         a. Glass garage doors, including opaque glass, may be used to calculate and qualify for
             this requirement.
         b. Where a facade is not visible from any public street or highway, based on a site
             specific visual analysis of before and post construction conditions, submitted by the
             applicant and reviewed by Staff, no minimum window percentage is required.
             However, provision of natural light into the building is strongly encouraged.

3.      a.
             Figure 6 Conceptual Exterior Elevation




                                          Page 11
Figures 7-10. Conceptual Exterior Elevation Image




                             Page 12
Page 13
            4. Landscaping: Individual site plans, lots or parcels located in this SD-X shall demonstrate that
               the overall developed area of the project contains a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the
               total developed project area is landscaped, as verified during each site plan review and
               approval. Non-irrigated or non-landscaped area, such as canal banks and canal roads, do not
               qualify as required landscaping which meets this requirement.
    H. Signage:
            1. Signs: All monument, tower, and informational wayfinding signs shall adhere to a
               consistent and unified signage scheme which is consistent with the architectural theme
               shown in Figures 6-10, such as architectural bases of brick. Unless otherwise noted, all
               signs shall comply with signage requirements in BCC 11.220.
            2. Signage which differs from or exceeds the City's standards requirements is allowed as
               follows:
                      a. Tower Sign: One tower sign shall be allowed at the entrance to The Centrum
                         at Bluffdale from Porter Rockwell Blvd., which meets the dimensional,
                         design, and locational standards found in BCC 11.22.070 and all other
                         applicable requirements of BCC 11.220.
                     b. Welcome sign. Developer shall install an entry/welcome sign which includes
                         the official Bluffdale logo or Bluffdale as part of the project, as depicted in
                         Figure 10. Said sign shall be allowed to be up to six feet high, shall have an
                         architectural brick base, and conform with the City logo style guide. The
                         welcome sign shall be included in the site plan of and constructed with the
                         building located closest to the intersection of 14600 South and Porter
                         Rockwell Boulevard.
                      c. Informational Wayfinding Signs: Informational wayfinding signs shall be
                         allowed in the project and shall follow the size and location guidelines
                         outlined in city code section 11.220.070 for Informational signs.
                     d. Suspended, Blade Type Projecting Signs: Suspended or blade type projecting
                         signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a
                         minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the pavement, and shall be a
                         maximum of four (4) square feet.
                      e. Electronic message are centers not allowed.




      SECTION 7:           AMENDMENT “11.11.080.020 Qualification” of the Bluffdale
Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                              BEF O RE AMEN DMEN T

11.11.080.020 Qualification

    A. For property to qualify for SD zone classification the following conditions shall be
       met:
            1. The property to be classified shall be at least twenty (20) acres for residential
               and mixed use projects. The property shall be at least five (5) acres for
               commercial, industrial, or manufacturing projects, or mixed use project which
               is directly adjacent to the I-15 corridor and which contains a hotel.
            2. The proposal conforms to the goals, objectives, and density recommendations
               of the city's general plan.
            3. The applicant shall demonstrate to the planning commission and city council
               that development on the property would be constrained by topographic or




                                                        Page 14
                other natural features, by platting or ownership configuration, by impact from
                public utility structures or other public structures or facilities, or that no other
                zone classifications exist that more appropriately suit the proposed
                development of the property.
             4. The development of the property shall prepare a comprehensive project plan
                that addresses development issues specific to the site including, but not limited
                to, architectural design standards, landscaping, street trees, open space and
                parks, trail connections to the city's existing or proposed system, phasing and
                processing of development or similar characteristics.
             5. The entire site proposed for SD district classification shall be included in a
                development plan for review and recommendation by the planning
                commission and approval by the city council as an amendment to the city's
                land use ordinance and official zoning map. (Ord. 2016-05, 5-11-2016; amd.
                Ord. 2019-19, 10-9-19)

                                AF TER AMEN DMEN T

11.11.080.020 Qualification

    A. For property to qualify for SD zone classification the following conditions shall be
       met:
            1. The property to be classified shall be at least twenty (20) acres for residential
               and mixed use projects. The property shall be at least five (5) acres for
               commercial, industrial, or manufacturing projects, or mixed use projects which
               areis directly adjacent to the I-15 corridor and which contains a hotel, or
               projects which front on two arterial roads.
            2. The proposal conforms to the goals, objectives, and density recommendations
               of the city's general plan.
            3. The applicant shall demonstrate to the planning commission and city council
               that development on the property would be constrained by topographic or
               other natural features, by platting or ownership configuration, by impact from
               public utility structures or other public structures or facilities, or that no other
               zone classifications exist that more appropriately suit the proposed
               development of the property.
            4. The development of the property shall prepare a comprehensive project plan
               that addresses development issues specific to the site including, but not limited
               to, architectural design standards, landscaping, street trees, open space and
               parks, trail connections to the city's existing or proposed system, phasing and
               processing of development or similar characteristics.
            5. The entire site proposed for SD district classification shall be included in a
               development plan for review and recommendation by the planning
               commission and approval by the city council as an amendment to the city's
               land use ordinance and official zoning map. (Ord. 2016-05, 5-11-2016; amd.
               Ord. 2019-19, 10-9-19)




                                                          Page 15
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
_______________________________.

                                         AYE   NAY       ABSENT        ABSTAIN
Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Crockett
Councilmember Gaston
Councilmember Hales
Councilmember Kallas

P residing O fficer                                      Attest



Derk P. Timothy, Mayor, Bluffdale City                   Wendy Deppe, City Recorder Bluffdale City




                                               Page 16
                                            2222 West 14000 South
                                              Bluffdale, UT 84065
                                   801.254.2200(o) 801.446.8642(f) TTY 7-1-1

                                               STAFF REPORT
                                             September 10, 2021

To:                     City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By:            Ellen Oakman, Associate Planner

Re:     City Initiated Text Amendment to amend the permitted allowed uses within the Bringhurst
        Station Special District Zone

        Application No.:        2021-36
        Applicant:              City of Bluffdale
        Request:                That the Planning Commission review the text amendment to add home
                                occupations as a permitted use to the Bringhurst Station Project District Zone
                                and make a recommendation to the Bluffdale City Council.

SUMMARY
Staff was requested to review and amend the existing section in Title 11.110.100.040 of the Bluffdale City
Code by expanding the permitted uses in the residential areas of the (SD-X) Bringhurst Station Project Zone
to allow home occupations where it was omitted from the original zoning table. This proposed code
amendment is a policy decision of the City Council. The use: Home Occupations already exists in the
definitions chapter of Title 11.120 of the BCC, so the addition to the permitted uses of the Bringhurst zone is
facilitated by the use’s familiarity in the code standards.

Staff has proposed revisions in accordance with direction from the Bluffdale City Council and City Staff
experience. Staff discussed with the City Council on August 25th to add a permitted use in the residential
areas of the Bringhurst Station Zone. This addition allows for more business opportunity and is consistent
with other residential areas in the city and better meets the intent of the code. The recent home occupation
code changes in Title 3, which apply city-wide, are defined by function and impact allowing it to be more
efficient to regulate. Staff proposes, with the recommendation of City Council, to alter the permitted uses in
the (SD-X) Bringhurst Station Project Zone.




                                                                            Application 2021-36: Amendments to Chapter
                                                                     11.110.100.040.C of the Bluffdale City Land Use Code
                                                                      September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                   Page 1
The following table of current uses is permitted in the residential area of the (SD-X) Bringhurst Station Project
zone:

                                 Existing Residential Permitted Uses: 11.110.100.040.C
                          PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES (RESIDENTIAL AREAS)

                        Dwelling, single-family: A dwelling containing only 1 dwelling unit                            P


                       Accessory dwelling units in accordance with chapter 34 of this title                            P


                      Dwelling, multi-family: A dwelling containing 3 or more dwelling units                           P


   Parks: A playground or other amenities in an area or open space providing opportunities for active or
                                                                                                                       P
        passive recreational or leisure activities either publicly or privately owned and maintained


 Public uses: A facility or use, exclusive of public utility facilities, owned or operated exclusively by a public
 entity, having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general welfare. Public uses include such          P
       uses and facilities as libraries, community buildings, schools, fire stations, police stations, etc.




ANALYSIS
The proposed amendments include the following:

Proposed revisions to SD-X Bringhurst Station Zone (11.110.100.040): Residential Development Standards
and Design Guidelines

                  •     Home Occupations in accordance with BCC 3.80

11.110.100.040 Use Table:


                                Home Occupations in accordance with BCC 3.80                                   P




MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION

Model for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the Text Amendment Application 2021-36 based on the findings presented in the staff report dated September
10, 2021, (or as modified below):”
        1. List all findings for approval…
• Consistent with the Residential Land Use Table in 11.350 of the BCC
• Consistent with other residential areas/zones
• Consistent with the Home Occupation standards in 3.80 of the BCC
• Consistent with the purpose of the SD-X Bringhurst Station Zone in 11.110.100.010 of the BCC

                                                                                    Application 2021-36: Amendments to Chapter
                                                                             11.110.100.040.C of the Bluffdale City Land Use Code
                                                                              September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                           Page 2
ATTACHMENTS
Exhibit A: Proposed language




Exhibit A:

                                Existing Residential Permitted Uses: 11.110.100.040.C
                         PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES (RESIDENTIAL AREAS)

Dwelling, single-family: A dwelling containing only 1 dwelling unit                                                        P


Accessory dwelling units in accordance with chapter 34 of this title                                                       P


Dwelling, multi-family: A dwelling containing 3 or more dwelling units                                                     P


Parks: A playground or other amenities in an area or open space providing opportunities for active or
                                                                                                                           P
passive recreational or leisure activities either publicly or privately owned and maintained


Public uses: A facility or use, exclusive of public utility facilities, owned or operated exclusively by a public
entity, having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general welfare. Public uses include such               P
uses and facilities as libraries, community buildings, schools, fire stations, police stations, etc.


Home Occupations in accordance with BCC 3.80                                                                               P




                                                                                     Application 2021-36: Amendments to Chapter
                                                                              11.110.100.040.C of the Bluffdale City Land Use Code
                                                                               September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                            Page 3
                         2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                     Community Development Department
                                               Planning Division


                                              DRC STAFF REPORT
                                              10 September 2021


To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner, on behalf of the DRC

Re:     Brubaker Development – Site Plan Application
        Application No:      2021-19
        Applicant(s):        Bangerter 15/Mac Brubaker
        Address:             2790 West 14000 South
        Zoning:              GC-1 General Commercial
        Acreage:             2.78 acres
        Request:             To approve the site plan for two (2) commercial buildings providing a total
                             of 39,406 sq. ft. of flex/retail/office within twenty (20) individual units,
                             including exterior elevations, materials, colors and landscaping plans.

SUMMARY
The applicants are proposing to construct two (2) commercial buildings in the GC-1 Zone. Each building
contains 19,703 square feet with a total of 39,406 square feet within twenty (20) individual units. The
Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority for all major site plans over 15,000 square feet. The
applicants received City approval and recorded a commercial subdivision plat on June 16, 2021. The
proposed site plan will be located on Lot 2 of the Arctic Subdivision.

ANALYSIS
Anticipated Uses, Layout and Access. The current property consists of 2.78 acres. Lot 2 and the proposed
site will have access from the public street on 14000 South with a shared access with the Arctic Circle
project to the east. Internal access may also be achieved with lot 3 from 2700 west, if needed. The front of
one building is oriented to face south on 14000 South and the other to the rear property line with a shared
truck/delivery access alley as the rear of both buildings. The buildings will provide individual eight units of
1,960 sq. ft. and 2 units of 2,012 sq. ft. of future flex, retail, or offices uses which will be determined as each
unit is leased. All uses are subject to the use tables in 11.35 of the Bluffdale City Codes as permitted in the
GC-1 Zone.

Building Setbacks, Elevations, Materials. The buildings meet the minimum setback requirements of the GC-
1 Zone. The application was received prior to the updated design standards adopted on May 26, 2021. The
applicant was included in the discussions of the desire of the City to provide higher quality of materials and
architectural elements on all commercial buildings in the area. Although this application was evaluated by
the site plan requirements prior, the applicants have provided an exhibit showing the proposed elevations
of the buildings including the materials as follows: Glass 50%/Brick7%/Block 43% on lower 9 feet of
elevations = Glass 25%/Brick 25%/Block 50% on area above 9 feet to top of the parapet meeting the
                                                                         Site Plan Application – Brubaker Development
                                                                     September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                Page 1
requirement of street facing facades. Using split faced and smooth CMU block in Natural Gray and Desert
Sandstone colors with Black split face block as accent color, brick is also included in an ironstone and
midnight black colors, and windows have additional panes on lower level. Overhead garage and man
doors are same/similar in color to the desert sandstone on the rear elevation with smaller windows on the
upper elevation. All these materials and architectural elements are intended to add quality, building
longevity and lower maintenance costs for all potential future commercial uses.

Parking. All parking will be evaluated with the permitted uses when presented to the City. For example,
parking requirements are as follows:

        Use                        Required Parking                                 Brubaker
       Retail                    1 space per 600 sq. ft                           39,406 sq. ft
   Business Office               1 space per 300 sq. ft                    111 stalls (includes 5 ADA)

Landscaping. The GC-1 Zone requires a minimum of twenty percent (20%) landscaping for the site. There is
26,592 sq. ft. of landscaping provided which includes the minimum amounts of trees and shrubs.
Landscaping is provided in parking islands and street trees are provided in the City’s right of way park strip
along 14000 South consistent with the site plan to the east. The project is also providing waterwise
measures for attractive landscaping and for the irrigation plan.

Adequate Public Facilities and Infrastructure. All adequate public facilities will be installed with the
construction for this project.

DRC REVIEW AND COMMENTS
On behalf of the City Manager, the City’s staff involved in development review and meets together as a
Development Review Committee (DRC). The DRC generally consists of the City Manager, City Attorney, City
Engineer, Public Works Director, the City Planner, and other outside consultants as needed from time to
time. The comments of the DRC members have been included in this staff report and the recommended
conditions of approval for the project.

City Engineer. The outstanding requirements by the City Engineer and Public Works Department are
included in the recommended conditions of approval. The layout, design and construction of all
subdivisions are subject to the Bluffdale City Engineering Standards and Specifications.

Fire Chief. There a no outstanding requirements from the Fire Chief.

City Planner. The Planning Division is recommending approval with compliance to all City land use
ordinances and with the recommended conditions.

DRC STAFF RECOMMENDATION FOR BRUBAKER DEVELOPMENT SITE PLAN APPLICATION:

DRC Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the Brubaker Development Site Plan
Application with the following conditions:

    1. That all requirements of the City Codes and adopted ordinances are met and adhered to and
       the site plan complies with the Bluffdale City Engineering Standards and Specifications and
       recommendations by the City Engineer and Public Works Department for all relevant construction
       and plat drawings as follows:
           a. That the applicant continues to resolve all construction drawing Engineering Department
                review comments in accordance with City standards and specifications.
                                                                        Site Plan Application – Brubaker Development
                                                                    September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                               Page 2
          b. That the applicant provide approval from South Valley Sewer District for sewer service to
              this development.
          c. That the applicant provide approval from the United States Postal Service for the location
              and design of the communal mailbox to serve this development.
          d. That the applicant executes a Stormwater Maintenance Agreement with the City of
              Bluffdale and record this agreement against the property.
          e. That all construction drawings be approved and stamped by the City Engineer prior to any
              construction activities.
   2. That the property owners are required to install and maintain landscaping including street trees in
      the adjacent park strips for the site plan application.

MODEL MOTIONS – FOR BRUBAKER DEVELOPMENT SITE PLAN APPLICATION:

Motion for Approval – “I move we approve the Brubaker Development Site Plan Application 2021-19
subject to the conditions and based on the findings presented in the staff report dated September 10,
2021, (or as modified by the conditions below):”
        1.      List any additional findings and/or conditions…




                                                                    Site Plan Application – Brubaker Development
                                                                September 15, 2021, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                           Page 3
                                                Memo
Date: September 10, 2021
From: Dan Tracer, Assistant City Engineer
To:       Grant Crowell, Zoning Administrator
RE:       Brubaker Development – Site Plan Approval



In an effort to ensure all site plans are compliant with City standards and ordinances, the City
Engineering Department conducts a review of all site plan applications. We have completed our
review of the Brubaker Development Site Plan and recommend approval be granted with the
requirement that the following conditions be met prior to construction:

      •   That the applicant continue to revise the project drawings and drainage report through the
          Engineering Department review process, to be in accordance with City standards and
          specifications.
      •   That the applicant provide approval from South Valley Sewer District for the project.
      •   That the applicant provide approval from the United States Postal Service for the location
          and design of the communal mailbox to serve this development.
      •   That the applicant execute a Stormwater Maintenance Agreement with the City of Bluffdale
          and record this agreement against the property.
Please contact me directly with any questions or concerns you may have.




Dan Tracer, P.E. – Assistant City Engineer
City of Bluffdale




                                                 1 of 1
                                                                                                                                                           NORTH



        BRUBAKER DEVELOPMENT
                LOCATED IN THE SOUTHWEST QUARTER OF SECTION 4,
                       TOWNSHIP 4 SOUTH, RANGE 1 WEST,                                                                                       GRAPHIC SCALE
                          SALT LAKE BASE AND MERIDIAN                                                                                  30              0       15        30                       60

                    BLUFFDALE CITY, SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                            ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                           1 inch = 30 ft.




                                                                                                 3160 W
                                                                                                                       13760 S


                                                                                            13800 S
                                                                                                                                                            BANGERTER HWY




                                                                                                                         2950 W
                                                                                                                            14000 S



                                                                                                                       SITE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2200 W
                                                                                                                                              2700 W
                                                                                    VICINITY MAP
                                                                                    N.T.S
                                                                                                          OWNER/DEVELOPER:
                                                                                                          BRUBAKER CONSTRUCTION INC.
                                                                                                          BOB GREER
                                                                                                          7067 S COMMERCE PARK DR.
                                                                                                          SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84047
                                                                                                          801.561.9400
                                                                                                          BGREER@BRUBAKERCONSTRUCTION.COM

                                                                                                           DRAWING INDEX
                                                                                                           COVER                      COVER SHEET
                                                                                                           CGN.01                     GENERAL NOTES, LEGEND & ABBREVIATION
                                                                                                           CSP.01                     SITE PLAN
                                                                                                           CUP.01                     UTILITY PLAN
                                                                                                           CGD.01                     GRADING & DRAINAGE PLAN
                                                                                                           CEP.01                     EROSION CONTROL PLAN
                                                                                                           CEP.02                     EROSION CONTROL DETAILS
                                                                                                           CDT.01                     DETAILS & NOTES
                                                                                                           CDT.02                     DETAILS & NOTES




                                                                 2700 WEST STREET
                                                                                                           CDT.03                     DETAILS & NOTES




                                                                   (PUBLIC ROAD)
                                                                                                           CDT.04                     DETAILS & NOTES




                                                                                                            CIVIL CONSTRUCTION PLANS


                                                                                                                                                                                              9138 SOUTH STATE STREET SUITE # 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                   SANDY, UTAH 84070 (801) 542-7192
                                                                                                                                                                                                       www.benchmarkcivil.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT NO.
                                                                                                                                                                               DRAFT       DESIGN:       CHECK:                          2009235
                                                                                                                                                                                EH          AGA           AGA
                                                                                                                          BRUBAKER DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                       13974 S 2700 W, BLUFFDALE, UTAH                          DATE:        DATE:        DATE:
                                                                                                                                                                              05/20/2021   05/24/2021   05/24/2021


 14000 SOUTH                                                                                              No.   DATE                           DESCRIPTION                                                                    COVER
(PUBLIC ROAD)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1 OF 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EX. GRAVEL ROAD                                                                                                                       NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (PROTECT EAST OF THIS                                                                  GRAPHIC SCALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       POINT AND RE-GRADE WEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20            0         10         20           40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ENTRY NO.4171563                                                                                                               ENTRY NO.6099325                                                                                                                                                                    OF THIS POINT TO TIE INTO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BOOK 5714                                                                                                                      BOOK 7167                                                                                                                                                                            THE PROPOSED ASPHALT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PAGE 2220                                                                                                                      PAGE 1483
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RIGHT OF WAY AND EASEMENT                                                                                                      PARCEL B NON EXCLUSIVE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ( IN FEET )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GRANT                                                                                                                          RIGHT OF WAY EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                      53.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 inch = 20 ft.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S 89°33'31" E 624.50'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         341.50'


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONSTRUCTION KEY NOTE REFERENCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24.7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1                         4                                                                                                                               4                                                 1                                              4                                                                                                                                                        NO.                                   DESCRIPITON                                    DETAIL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35.3'
                                                                                                                                                       R4                                                                      R4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             44.7'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  R5
                                                                                                                                                         .5                                                                      .5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1      ASPHALT PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      .5
                                                                                                                                                           '                                                                       '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4                                                                                                                                                                                     1/CDT.01




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11.0'                              5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2      CONCRETE PAVEMENT WITH GRANULAR BASE                                         1/CDT.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            9.0'
                                                                                                        9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3      CONCRETE CURB AND GUTTER PER APWA #205 TYPE 'A'




                                                                                                                                                                                             18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                     9.0'                                   9.0'                                                    9.0'                                                                            9.0'                                                                                             9.0'
                                                                                                                           R4                    4                                                                                           9.0'                                                                                                                            9.0'
                                                                                                                             .5'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12.0'                                                               '                                                                                             4      RELEASE CURB & GUTTER                                                        2/CDT.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7                                                     .5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R4 9            13.5'                                                                             5      4' WATERWAY PER APWA #211




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.0'
                                                                                                                                       1                                                                                               6                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6      INTEGRAL SIDEWALK                                                            3/CDT.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NEW GRAVEL ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (RE-GRADE/ RAISE         7      ADA RAMP                                                                     1/CDT.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GRAVEL ROAD TO TIE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8      ADA SIGN                                                                     1/CDT.02
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                INTO THE NEW ASPHALT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7                7               8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9      TRANSITION CURB & GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18.0'                                                                                  10     SIDEWALK 5' WIDE AND 4" THICK PER BLUFFDALE #ST-3                            7/CDT.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEW PROPOSED
                                                                                       3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROPERTY LINE BETWEEN             11     NEW STREET LIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LOTS 102 & 103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12     STOP SIGN PER BLUFFDALE CITY STDS                                            3/CDT.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEW                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       80.7'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19703 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.0'
                                                                                                                                       24.0'                                                                                                                                                                                    251.3'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AREA TABLE
                                                                                                          9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4.0'                                                                                                                                                                          S.F.               %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PARTICULARS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            216.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    215.9'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BUILDING                   39,406               29.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16.0'                                                           3
                                                                                                        18.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HARDSCAPE                  66,789               50.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     27.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LANDSCAPE                  26,592               20.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IRRIGATED                  26,592               20.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NON-IRRIGATED              106,195              80.0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TOTAL                      132,787              100
                                                                                                                               3                                                                                                                        LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0'




                                                                           32.1'                                27.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     R4
                NEW DUMPSTER                                                                                                       '                                                                                                                121,232 SQ FT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27.0'
          (DESIGNED BY OTHERS)                                                                                                 R4.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTACTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.783 ACRES                                      1                                                                                                                                                                                  16.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     45.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EMERGENCY UTILITY CONTACTS IN THE PLAN SET FOR AT LEAST THE FOLLOWING COMPANIES:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1                                                                                                                                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE PUBLIC WORKS: (801) 254-2200
                                                                                                                           18.5'
                                                                                                29.8'




                                                                                                                                               31.8'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        18.0'                  0.5'
                                                                                                               10.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             20.0'                                                        CITY OF BLUFFDALE POLICE DEPARTMENT: (801) 794-3970
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (NON EMERGENCY NUMBER) 911 IS EMERGENCY NUMBER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N 00°26'24" E 355.00'
                                     N 00°17'29" E 355.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CITY OF BLUFFDALE FIRE DEPARTMENT: (801) 840-4000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (NON EMERGENCY NUMBER) - (801) 254-2200 EXT.442 (EMERGENCY NUMBER)
                                                                                                                           2.3'




                                                                                                  13.5'                                    2
                                                                                                                       R4
                                                                                                                         .5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JORDAN VALLEY WATER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT: (801) 565-4300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2.0'




                                                                                                                  3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SOUTH VALLEY SEWER DISTRICT: (801) 571-1166
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16.0'                                                                                                                                                JORDAN SCHOOL DISTRICT: 801-567-8100

                                                                                                                                           1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4                                                                                  DOMINION ENERGY - 1-800-767-1689
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                251.3'
    EASEMENTS AS EVIDENCED BY
  MESNE DOCUMENTS OF RECORD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER: 1-877-508-5088
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31.0'                                                           13.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      R5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      80.7'
     QUIT CLAIM DEED RECORDED                                                                                                          24.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0'                                                                                                   KERN RIVER GAS: (801) 937-6000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NEW
 FEBRUARY 19, 1998, AS ENTRY NO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           INDUSTRIAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4                                                                                    CENTURYLINK: 1-844-278-4175
   6868274, IN BOOK 7884, AT PAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BUILDING
                              2059                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            COMCAST:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19703 SQFT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CONC. PEDESTRIAN                                                                                 (800) 934-6489
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WALKWAY AND ADA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMPLIANT PATH                                                                                   VERIZON:
                                                                                   3                                                                                                                                                                                    8                             8                7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (385) 275-3241




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BRUBAKER DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                                                                                4
                                                                                                         9.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7                                                                                                                                                         NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SLOPE ACROSS THE ACCESSIBLE PARKING STALLS & ACCESS ISLE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           139.00'
                                                                                                                                                                 9.0'                                                                      9.0'                                                                                                                      15.0'                                                                                  3                10.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                          18.0'




                                                                                                        18.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              18.0'

                                                                                                                                                                                                          9.0'                                                                9.0'                                                                                                                                                    9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHALL NOT EXCEED A 1:48 (2.00%) SLOPE, THE MAX GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4                              4                                                                                                                              4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE ASPHALT SURFACE, ACCESSIBLE RAMP,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BLUFFDALE, UTAH 84065
                                                                                                                                                3                                    4                                                                                                         9.0'          9.0'                                           4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AND SIDEWALK SHALL NOT EXCEED 1/4 INCH VERTICAL OR 1/2 INCH
                                                                                                                                                           '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WHEN BEVELED. THE ACCESSIBLE MEANS OF EGRESS INCLUDING
                                                                                                                                                         .0
                                                                                                                     .1'




                                                                                                    3                                                  R4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THE DRIVEWAY PORTION SHALL NOT EXCEED A SLOPE OF 1:20 (5.0%)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                                                   R5




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            .0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.0'                                 5.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          R4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    & A CROSS SLOPE OF 1:48 (2.0%). ALL EXTERIOR DOOR WAY ACCESS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   R4




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13974 S 2700 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW CLUSTER MAILBOX UNIT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REQUIRE AN EXTERIOR LANDING 60 INCHES IN LENGTH WITH A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                   1                                                                                 2                                                                                                                                         1                                                                                                                     (DESIGNED BY OTHERS)                                                                           SLOPE NOT EXCEEDING A 1:48 (2.0%) SLOPE
                                                                                                                                                                     9                                                                                                                                                  4
                                                                                                                                   9                         R6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                R6




                                                                                                                                                               .5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R6                                                                                                                CROSS ACCESS
                                                                                                          14.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .2'




                                                                                                                                                                 '                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .5'                                                                                                             EASEMENT IN FAVOR OR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOTS 1 & 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PARKING COUNT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9.0'                                                                                                                                                 9.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                  11.5'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.3'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PARTICULARS                  PROVIDED
                                                                                                                                                                             13.0'                                                 4                                                                                                                                                                                                           4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TYPE 5B PER THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13.0'                                                                                                                                                                                       STANDARD             ADA                  INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
                                                                                                                                                         3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16.0'                                                                                                                                                  PARKING STALLS           106                5
                                                                                                          32.6'




                                                                                                                                                                         32.6'




                                                                                                                                   4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TOTAL                          111
                                                                                           10' P.U.E.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
                                                                                                                                           30.0'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            33.6'




    EX. SIDEWALK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NEW STOP BAR STRIPING                                                        NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAWCUT WIDTH, LOCATIONS AND TIE-IN ELEVATIONS IN
       (PROTECT)
                                                                                                   R28.0'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EXISTING HARDSCAPE ARE APPROXIMATE, CONTRACTOR TO
                                                                                                                                                                                    .0'
                                                                                                                                                                                 R28
                                                             7.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FIELD VERIFY LOCATION AND EXTENT OF SAWCUTTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6.1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                341.50'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION. NOTIFY CIVIL ENGINEER IF
                                                                    5.0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REVISIONS ARE REQUIRED. SEE NOTE 64 ON CGN.01 FOR
                                                                                           12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FURTHER DETAIL.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NOTE:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR TO PROVIDE RECORD DRAWING INFORMATION
           EX. CURB AND GUTTER
                      (PROTECT)                                     NEW STOP BAR STRIPING
                                                                                                                         10                                                                                                                                                                                      14000 SOUTH                                                                                                                                                                       86.0'                                                                                                                                      ACCORDING TO BLUFFDALE CITY STANDARDS.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N 89°33'31" W 611.01'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (PUBLIC ROAD)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    33.0'



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CALL BEFORE YOU DIG.                                 SITE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IT'S FREE & IT'S THE LAW.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N 89°33'31" W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BLUE STAKES OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            UTILITY NOTIFICATION CENTER                    PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1-800-662-4111
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              www.bluestakes.org
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      811             CSP.01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3 OF 11
                                                                                        40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SPLIT FACED WHITE OR IVORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Diversified
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              DESIGN SERVICES AND ENGINEERING, L.C.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (2) COURSES OF SPLIT FACED                                                                                                                            6236 SOUTH TURPIN ST.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLACK                                                                                                                                                  MURRAY,UTAH 84107
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PHONE: 801-347-2369
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Email: brandon@dds-slc.com
                              10'-8"

                                       8'-8"




                                               52                                                                 52                        52                                                                52                             52                                                                       SPLIT FACED MASONRY
                                                                                      116                                                                                   116                                                                                             116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COLOR ~ DESERT SANDSTONE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERSTATE BRICK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRONSTONE / MIDNIGHT
                                                                                             BUILDING FRONT ELEVATIONS                                                                                             BLOCK COMBINATION.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MIDNIGHT TO BE SOLDIER
                                                                                             SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"       BRICK VENEER COLUMNS ONLY OCCUR                                                             COURSED ON TOP AND BTM.
                                                                                                                       ON THE SOUTH BUILDING. THE NORTH
                                                                                                                       BUILDING TO HAVE WHITE OR IVORY
                                                                                                                       SPLIT-FACED BLOCK

                                               FRONT ELEVATION OVERALL (6,000 Sq. Ft)
                                               DESCRIPTION                 AREA       %
                                               GLASS                       1,500 25%
                                               BRICK                       1,500 25%
                                               BLOCK                       3,000 50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              25'-4"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     23'-4"
                                               FRONT ELEVATION LOWER 9'-0" (2,262 Sq. Ft)
                                               DESCRIPTION                  AREA      %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13974 South 2700 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10'-8"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEVELOPMENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bluffdale, Utah 84065
                                               GLASS                        1,100 50%                                                                                                                         52                             52                                                         52                           52                                                                     52

                                                                             150     7%                                                                                       116                                                                                            116                                                                                                    116




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BRUBAKER
                                               BRICK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    32"
                                               BLOCK                        1,012 43%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BUILDING FRONT ELEVATIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"        BRICK VENEER COLUMNS ONLY OCCUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ON THE SOUTH BUILDING. THE NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BUILDING TO HAVE WHITE OR IVORY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SPLIT-FACED BLOCK                    FRONT ELEVATION OVERALL (6,000 Sq. Ft)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION                 AREA       %
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GLASS                       1,500 25%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BRICK                       1,500 25%
SMOOTH MASONRY
COLOR ~ NATURAL GRAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BLOCK                       3,000 50%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROJECT NAME:
(2) COURSES OF SPLIT FACED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       20'-8"
BLACK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FRONT ELEVATION LOWER 9'-0" (2,262 Sq. Ft)
SMOOTH MASONRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          DESCRIPTION                  AREA      %




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12'-0"
COLOR ~ DESERT SANDSTONE                                       12'-0" X 12'-0"                  12'-0" X 12'-0"                                           12'-0" X 12'-0"                   12'-0" X 12'-0"                                             12'-0" X 12'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GLASS                        1,100 50%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OWNER/APPLICANT:
                                                                O.H. DOOR                        O.H. DOOR                                                 O.H. DOOR                         O.H. DOOR                                                   O.H. DOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BRICK                         150     7%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BLOCK                        1,012 43%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                brubaker
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                construction
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                incorporated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7067 SOUTH COMMERCE PARK DRIVE
                                                              BUILDING REAR ELEVATIONS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84047
                                                               SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"
SMOOTH MASONRY
COLOR ~ NATURAL GRAY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT INFO.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROJECT NO.:                        2020-047
                                                                                 SMOOTH MASONRY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CAD FILE NAME:
                                                                                 COLOR ~ DESERT SANDSTONE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2) COURSES OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DRAWN BY:                                BL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SPLIT-FACED BLOCK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHECKED BY:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE:                             1/8" = 1'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                    12'-0" X 12'-0"                                               12'-0" X 12'-0"                  12'-0" X 12'-0"                                          12'-0" X 12'-0"                               12'-0" X 12'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                     O.H. DOOR                                                     O.H. DOOR                        O.H. DOOR                                                O.H. DOOR                                     O.H. DOOR                                                   DATE:                              08-18-2021
                           (2) COURSES OF SPLIT FACED
                           BLACK                                                              SPLIT FACED WHITE OR IVORY
                                                                                              COLOR ~ WHITE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REVISIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       REV. DATE                      DESCRIPTION

                                                                                                                                                                 (2) COURSES OF                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDING REAR ELEVATIONS                                                                        1              DATE         DESCRIPTION
                                                                                                                                                                 SPLIT-FACED BLOCK (BLACK)                                                                                                                                                                    SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"



                                                                                                                                                                  SPLIT FACED WHITE OR IVORY
 25'-4"

          23'-4"




                                                                                                                                                                   (2) COURSES OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                                                                                                   SPLIT-FACED BLOCK (BLACK)

                                                                                                                                                                   SPLIT FACED MASONRY
                                                                                                                                                                   COLOR ~ DESERT SANDSTONE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EXTERIOR ELEVATIONS
                   8'-8"




                                                    EAST / WEST ELEVATIONS
                                                    SCALE: 1/8" = 1'-0"

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A 201
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SHEET  1   1 OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3/$17/(*(1'




                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '(&,'828675((6      &2'(       47<    %27$1,&$/&200211$0(                         &217             &$/




                                     ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     $W J           $W J             $FHUWDWDULFXPC*DU$QQC                         % %            6LQJOH7UXQN
                                                                                                                                     2+3                   2+3         2+3                      2+3                   2+3               2+3                  2+3                   2+3          2+3                       2+3              2+3                2+3                          2+3                2+3                   2+3                    2+3                2+3                  2+3                2+3                 2+3             2+3                                                         +RW:LQJV7DWDULDQ0DSOH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6'
                                                                                                                                                       ;          ;        ;           ;              ;           ;           ;             ;          ;            ;          ;         ;          ;              ;         ;         ;               ;          ;         ;          ;         ;             ;               ;         ;             ;            ;         ;          ;              ;        ;          ;             ;      ;          ;




                                     ;
                                                                                          (;,67,1*75((
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $J D                    $J D            $PHODQFKLHU[JUDQGLIORUDC$XWXPQ%ULOOLDQFHC    % %            0XOWLWUXQNHG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C$XWXPQ%ULOOLDQFHC6HUYLFHEHUU\




                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3H              3RSXOXVWUHPXOD (UHFWD                         &RQWDLQHU        &DO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (XURSHDQ&ROXPQDU$VSHQ




                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4 XS             4XHUFXVPDFURFDUSDC8UEDQ3LQQDFOHC             % %            &DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8UEDQ3LQQDFOH2DN
                                                                                                                    -F V
                                         ;




                                                                                                                 -F V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6'
                                                                                                (;,67,1*75((                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8S O            8OPXVSDUYLIROLDC(PHU,,C                      % %            &DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $OOHH/DFHEDUN(OP
                                                                                                                    -F V




                                                                                                                         6'
                                             ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    =V P             =HONRYDVHUUDWDC0XVDVKLQRC                     % %            &DO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0XVDVKLQR=HONRYD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (;,67,1*75((6725(0$,1$/21*:(673523(57</,1(




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6'
                                             ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (9(5*5((175((6      &2'(       47<    %27$1,&$/&200211$0(                         &217             &$/


                                                                                                                         6'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6&2                                                                                                                          -F V             -F V            -XQLSHUXVFKLQHQVLVC6SDUWDQC                   &RQWDLQHU
                                             ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6SDUWDQ-XQLSHU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6&2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3Q R             3LQXVQLJUDC2UHJRQ*UHHQC                      % %
                                                                                                                         6'
                                                 ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2UHJRQ*UHHQ3LQH
                                                                                             (;,67,1*75((




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               '(&,'82866+58%6     &2'(       47<    %27$1,&$/&200211$0(                         &217
                                                 ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    %W N            %HUEHULVWKXQEHUJLLC.RUHQC70                  JDO
                                                                                                                    -F V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6XQMR\&LWUXV%DUEHUU\
                                                                                                                         6'




                                                                                                                -F V
                                                 ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    &D E            &RUQXVDOEDC%DLOKDORC70                       JDO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                    -F V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6&2                                                                                                                                                             ,YRU\+DOR'RJZRRG
                                                                                            (;,67,1*75((
                                                     ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'                                                                                                              )V              )RUV\WKLD[LQWHUPHGLD 6SULQJ*ORU\            JDO
                                                                                                                         6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6SULQJ*ORU\)RUV\WKLD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6'
                                                     ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3[ F            3UXQXV[FLVWHQD                                JDO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3XUSOH/HDI6DQG&KHUU\
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6'
                                                                                                                         6'
                                                         ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (9(5*5((16+58%6     &2'(       47<    %27$1,&$/&200211$0(                         &217
                                                                                            (;,67,1*75((

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   &G F             &G F            &RWRQHDVWHUGDPPHULC&RUDO%HDXW\C              JDO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      &RUDO%HDXW\&RWRQHDVWHU
                                                         ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              *5$66(6               &2'(       47<    %27$1,&$/&200211$0(                         &217
                                                                                                                         6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6&2                                                                                                                                           &D N            &DODPDJURVWLV[DFXWLIORUDC.DUO)RHUVWHUC      JDO
                                                         ;




                                                                                                                   -F V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               )HDWKHU5HHG*UDVV




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6'
                                                                                          (;,67,1*75((
                                                                                                                -F V
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    )P D            )HVWXFDPDLUHL                                  JDO
                                                                                                                    -F V
                                                             ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $WODV)HVFXH
                                                                                                                         6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +V V            +HOLFWRWULFKRQVHPSHUYLUHQVC6DSSKLUHC          JDO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6'
                                                             ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      %OXH2DW*UDVV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6&2                                                                                                                      526(6                &2'(       47<    %27$1,&$/&200211$0(                         &217
                                                                 ;




                                                                                                                         6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6&2                                                                                                                                           5 SN            5RVD[C5DGWNRSLQNC70                          JDO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3LQN'RXEOH.QRFN2XW5RVH
                                                                                                    (;,67,1*75((
                                                                                                                  -F V
                                                                 ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6&2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                -F V
                                                                                                                  -F V                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6,7(0$7(5,$/6/(*(1'
                                                                                                                         6'
                                                                 ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /$1'6&$3(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6<0%2/         '(6&5,37,21                                                                           47<




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                     ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6721(08/&+3/$17,1*$5($6725(&(,9(0,1'(37+2)48$/,7<                       VI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            72362,/,)72362,/,635(6(17216,7(3529,'(62,/7(6772




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '(7(50,1(62,/48$/,7<)25352326('3/$17,1*63529,'('(37+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2)6721(08/&+723'5(66,1*
                                                                     ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        23(1',7&+725(0$,15(6(('$61(('(':,7+$1$7,9(5,3$5,$1                       VI
                                                                                                                                     6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6(('0,;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6'
                                                                     ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5,'*(                                  /$1'6&$3(




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6&2                                                                                                                    6<0%2/         '(6&5,37,21                                                                           47<
                                                                         ;




                                                                                                                                                6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %28/'(56CC                                                                      


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '((367((/('*,1*,167$//3(50$18)$&785(563(&,),&$7,21                      OI
                                                                         ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                                                                                                             6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            /$1'6&$3(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6<0%2/         '(6&5,37,21                                                                           47<
                                                                             ;




                                                                                                                       &G F                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6721(08/&+6,=('(37+                                                    VI
                                                                                                                                     &G F
                                                                                                                              &G F
                                                                                                                                                                                      6'
                                                                                                                          -F V -F V




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               66
                                                                             ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                             6'
                                                                                                                             -F V                                                                                                 6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    &G F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'                                                  &G F                                                                                                &G F &G F




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                                                                                                               -F V                                    &G F                                                                  &G F
                                                                                                                                                                                                               &G F           &G F                                       6'
                                                                             ;




                                                                                                                           $J D                                                    -F V -F V                                                                                                                                                                                                                              &G F                        6&2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6'                   6'                   6'                  6'               6'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ;
                                                                                 ;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ;             ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             66

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    &G F          &G F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           &G F                                                                            &G F            &G F                                           '                 6&2
                                                                                                                                                                                      $J D                                                                                                                                                        &G F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               $J D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66
                                                                                                    $W J                                                                                                      $W J                              $W J                          $W J                          $W J                           $W J                            $W J                   $W J
                                                                                     6'                     6'                     6'                6'               6'                   6'                 6'                     6'                     6'                6'              6'                        6'         6'                       6'                  6'               6'                       6'                 6'                     6'                  6'                  6'                  6'              6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        &2%%/(52&.
                 :          :                                                                   :                      :                    :                :                                                                                                                                                          ,13$5.675,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   66

                                                                                                                                                                               :                  :                     :                       :                  :                 :                  :                     :                   :                   :                    :              :                        :                       :              :                       :                  :                :               :
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            720$7&+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $5&7,&&,5&/(
                                                                                            6
                            66
                                                                                                             66                    66                 66              66                   66                     66                   66                   66                66              66                        66             66                    66                   66                                                                                                                             66                  66              66
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66                   66                 66                          66                   66


,668('$7(           352-(&7180%(5                                                             3/$1,1)250$7,21                                                                                          352-(&7,1)250$7,21                                                                                                                                                                                                                '(9(/23(53523(57<2:1(5&/,(17                                                                                /$1'6&$3($5&+,7(&73/$11(5                                /,&(16(67$03                           '5$:,1*,1)2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3URSHUW\2ZQHU                                                                                                                                                                                                        30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -7$
            87                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             %58%$.(5'(9(/230(17                                                                                                                                                                        '5$:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .%$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           $770$&%58%$.(5
12

      5(9,6,21
      ;;;;
                                     '$7(
                                 ;;;;;;
                                                                                                                           %/8(67$.(62)87$+
                                                                                                                           87,/,7<127,),&$7,21&(17(5,1&
                                                                                                                                                                 1                                                        %/8))'$/(%8,/',1*                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0$&#7$7(%58%$.(5&20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     &+(&.('


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3/27'$7(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -0$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        %/8))'$/(87$+
                                                                                                                          ZZZEOXHVWDNHVRUJ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $UFKLWHFW(QJLQHHU
                               
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ',9(56,),(''(6,*16(59,&(6                                                                                                                         /$1'6&$3(3/$1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      35(/,0,1$5<3/$16127
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $1'(1*,1((5,1*                                                                            175,803+%/9'68,7(
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       )25&216758&7,21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6287+7853,167


      
      
                                 
                                 
                                                                                                                               *5$3+,&6&$/( 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0855$<87
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         /(+,87$+  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZZZSNMGHVLJQJURXSFRP                                                  /3
                                
