                               BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                   ELECTRONIC MEETING AGENDA
                                     Wednesday, April 15, 2020

                       *This meeting will ONLY be conducted electronically *

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Planning Commission will hold an electronic public meeting
Wednesday, April 15, 2020, at 6:30 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible. There are various ways to
participate in this electronic meeting:
     1. Please check the City website bluffdale.com for the most up-to-date details to access the electronic
        meeting.
     2. View meeting on Facebook Live: https://www.facebook.com/bluffdalecity
     3. Email your comments to: planningmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com for all public hearing items.
        Please put the Agenda item number in the subject line.
     4. Mail your written comments to: Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner, City of Bluffdale Planning 2222 West
        14400 South Bluffdale, Utah 84065.
All comments can be read aloud if you indicate to do so. All comments received will be forwarded to Planning
Commission and will be included in the public record.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING 6:30 PM

   1. Roll Call.
   2. Public Forum – To bring items not already on the agenda before the Planning Commission.
   3. Approval of minutes from March 4, 2020, of the Planning Commission.

Administrative Items

   4. CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Conditional Use Application for more than one home occupation
      per residence in compliance with the Bluffdale City Code Title 11-23-2 for a beauty/salon services
      located at 15282 South 2200 West, Sheena Schwemmer, Applicant. (Applicant 2020-10)

   5. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Preliminary and Final Subdivision Application for
      3.98 acres to create two (2) lots in the R-1-43 Residential Zone located at 2552 West Silverpoint Way,
      Karl Burchett, Applicant. (Application 2019-54)

Legislative Items

   6. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a proposed General Plan
      Amendment Application for 4.50 acres from Very Low Density Residential to Multi-Family Residential
      located at approximately 13975 South 2700 West, Howland Partners, Applicants. (Application 2020-11)

   7. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a proposed General Plan
      Amendment Application for 1.96 acres from Commercial to Multi-Family Residential located at
      approximately 14643 Camp Williams Road, Quail Ridge Bluffdale Development LLC, Applicants.
      (Application 2020-08)
   8. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a proposed General Plan
      Amendment Application for 8.67 acres from Very Low Density Residential to Low Density Residential
      located at approximately 14135 South Loumis Parkway, Stonefly Development Corp., Applicants
      (Application 2020-14)

   9. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a proposed a Zoning Map
      Amendment Application for 8.67 acres from R-1-43 Residential to R-1-10 I-O (Infill Overlay) Residential
      located at approximately 14135 South Loumis Parkway, Stonefly Development Corp., Applicants
      (Application 2020-14)

Discussion Items

   10. City Council Reports.
   11. Planning Commission Business (planning session for upcoming items, follow up, etc.).
   12. Adjournment.



Dated: April 9, 2020




                                               Grant Crowell, AICP
                                               City Planner/Economic Development Director



In compliance with the American Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or
accommodation for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at
(801)254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.*Contact Jennifer Robison if you desire to give the Invocation or lead the Pledge of
Allegiance.
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 4, 2020

 1   Present:
 2
 3   Members:      Debbie Cragun, Chair
 4                 Kory Luker
 5                 Ulises Flynn
 6
 7   Excused:      Johnny Loumis, Jr.
 8                 Stephen Walston
 9                 Holly Brown
10
11   Others:       Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director
12                 Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner
13                 Trevor Andra, Assistant City Engineer
14                 Pam von Petersdorff, Community Development Coordinator
15
16   Chair Debbie Cragun called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
17
18   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING
19
20   1.     Invocation and Pledge.
21
22   Kory Luker offered the invocation. Ulises Flynn led the Pledge of Allegiance.
23
24   2.     Public Forum.
25
26   There were no public comments.
27
28   3.     Approval of Minutes from the February 5, 2020, Meeting of the Planning Commission
29
30   Kory Luker moved to approve the minutes from the February 5, 2020, meeting of the
31   Planning Commission. Ulises Flynn seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Kory Luker-Aye;
32   Ulises Flynn-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
33
34   Administrative Items
35
36   4.     PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Conditional Use
37          Application (2020-10) for More than One Home Occupation per Residence in
38          Compliance with the Bluffdale City Code Title 11-23-2 for a Beauty/Salon Services
39          Located at 15282 South 2200 West. Sheena Schwemmer, Applicant. Jennifer Robison,
40          Staff Presenter.
41
42   Senior City Planner, Jennifer Robison presented the staff report and identified the location of the


                                                     1
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 4, 2020

1    subject property.   She explained that in the City’s Home Occupation Ordinance, there are
2    requirements that must be followed, including the acquisition of a business license from the City.
3    One of the provisions in Bluffdale City Code Title 11-23-2 (4) states, “The home occupation shall
4    be licensed with the City. No more than one home occupation shall be approved per residence
5    unless the applicant has obtained a conditional use permit.” Therefore, the Planning Commission
6    is considering whether to approve a second home occupation at the subject property. Mrs. Robison
7    noted that a home occupation for a contractor was previously established in 2017 under the name of
8    Schwemmer, Inc., for Natures Hardwood Flooring. The office work for the business is run out of
 9   the Schwemmer home. The second business being proposed is for beauty and salon services. The
10   business would be called Luminescent Smiles and will specialize in organic teeth whitening.
11
12   In order for the second business to operate, the applicant must obtain a Conditional Use Permit to
13   qualify for a business license. The applicant noted in her application that the business would entail
14   teeth whitening using all organic materials, consisting of gel and laser light. There would be only
15   one or two clients on the site at one time. The business would operate in an outbuilding, which is
16   allowed in the Home Occupation Ordinance.         Mrs. Robison confirmed that the applicant has
17   committed to complying with all of the City’s requirements for a home-based occupation.
18
19   It was confirmed that both businesses will operate out of the outbuilding. Mrs. Robison stated that
20   the applicants have agreed to comply with all City requirements, including parking. She also noted
21   that Sheena Schwemmer will have no employees. There will be no signage on the property.
22
23   Chair Cragun next asked for the history of limiting home occupations to just one, thereby requiring
24   a Conditional Use Permit for an additional home occupation business on the same property. City
25   Planner/Economic Development Director, Grant Crowell believed the requirement had been around
26   for a while. This section of the Home Occupation Code has not been revised in several years. He
27   surmised that this particular Conditional Use Permit requirement might be a relic of the past before
28   the majority of Conditional Use Permits were eliminated from the City Code.
29
30   In response to a question raised, Mr. Crowell stated that there is currently some confusion in the
31   requirements for obtaining a business license because people can potentially operate more than one

                                                      2
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 4, 2020

1    business under the same business name. He added that the Business License Code dates back to
2    around 1979. Chair Cragun did not have an issue with approving the application but she wanted to
3    determine if there was an intentional reason the City did not want more than one home occupation
4    operating out of the same location.
5
6    Commissioner Flynn noted that if further similar applications are submitted, this situation would set
7    a precedent and a threshold would need to be set. Mr. Crowell stated that there is a point at which a
8    section of the City should be rezoned to Commercial of some sort. He noted that Bluffdale is quite
9    permissive in its allowance for home occupations.
10
11   Chair Cragun opened the public hearing.
12
13   Tyler Warner gave his address as 15366 South Silver Point Circle. He drives past the subject
14   property every day and already, there are a lot of cars on the subject property. He asked about the
15   rules for on-street parking. Mr. Warner stated that currently there are a lot of cars on the street,
16   including when students are being picked up from the nearby school. Mrs. Robison explained that
17   off-street parking is required for all employees of an approved home occupation. She was unable to
18   find any additional parking requirements in the City’s Parking or Home Occupation Ordinance.
19   Chair Cragun reiterated that there would be no additional employees and there would be just one or
20   two clients at a time. In response to a question regarding the hours of operation, Mrs. Robison
21   stated that the hours are limited in the Home Occupation Ordinance. Businesses may not operate
22   between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
23
24   Mrs. Robison read the following from the City Code: “Visitors, customers, or vehicular traffic shall
25   not exceed that normally or reasonably occurring for residents in the neighborhood.” That means
26   that since visitors or residents can park on the street, home occupation customers can also park on
27   the street. However, if parking is a concern, it could be addressed with the applicant.
28
29   Mr. Crowell noted confusion between the City’s Parking Ordinance, which focuses on commercial
30   operations and multi-family developments, and the Home Occupation Ordinance. For Conditional
31   Use Permits, parking, traffic circulation, and hours of operation can legitimately be addressed in the


                                                       3
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 4, 2020

 1   conditions if they are measurable and can be reasonably mitigated. The existing business is not
 2   under review tonight, and only the proposed second business.
 3
 4   David Hunter gave his address as 15309 Mountain Side Drive and stated that his property borders
 5   the backside of the subject property. He and another neighbor who also has adjoining property
 6   would like to know how many employees would be at the business and whether it will be located in
 7   the home or the shop at the rear of the property. If the business is in the shop, they wished to know
 8   if the back fence will be completed to separate the property. Currently, it is just a horse corral fence
 9   and not a privacy fence. Chair Cragun stated that there will be no employees and the business will
10   operate in the same shop as the flooring business. There will be no more than one or two clients on
11   the property at one time. Hours of operation were not included in the application, but the City Code
12   limits the hours of operation from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
13
14   Mr. Hunter acknowledged that the employees of the flooring business have off-street parking, so he
15   and his neighbor had no objections to the business. They are on friendly terms with the neighbors,
16   but they just wanted more information.        He emphasized his concern with privacy, hence his
17   question about the privacy fence. Mrs. Robison stated that the City did not address the fence with
18   the applicant. Mr. Hunter explained that currently there is about 150 feet of horse corral fence
19   where there used to be a horse corral across the back of the property.
20
21   Mr. Warner asked what the ramifications would be if the number of employees was increased.
22   Commissioner Luker stated that since this is a Conditional Use, the owner would have to re-apply
23   for a new Conditional Use Permit. Mr. Crowell explained that a new business license would be
24   required and include a meeting with the Planning Commission. The City Code addresses the
25   number of employees differently than a Conditional Use Permit for a second business.
26   Mrs. Robison stated that the Home Occupation Code currently allows one employee besides the
27   owner without additional approval.
28
29   There were no further public comments. Chair Cragun closed the public hearing.
30
31   In response to Commissioner Luker’s request for clarification of the employee rule for Home
32   Occupations, Mrs. Robison explained the rule allows for the resident of the dwelling to run the
                                                        4
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 4, 2020

 1   business. When deemed necessary, the City may allow one employee not residing on the premises
 2   during appropriate daytime business hours to work at the location of the home occupation.
 3   However, if an applicant wants more than one additional on-premise employee, the Home
 4   Occupation will require the review and approval of the Planning Commission.
 5
 6   Commissioner Luker acknowledged that the current home occupation is not under review, but it
 7   appears to have more than one employee. Mrs. Robison had not reviewed the application for that
 8   business, so she did not know the actual number of employees at that business. Mr. Crowell offered
 9   to obtain that information from the Business Licensing Official. He commented that there is a lot of
10   information that is simply unknown, especially since the applicants were not in attendance.
11   Commissioner Luker did not object to what the applicants are trying to do, but he wanted to make
12   sure they comply with City Code.
13
14   Chair Cragun expressed disappointment that the applicant was not in attendance to help answer
15   these questions. She suggested that the matter be tabled in order to get answers to the questions
16   raised.
17
18   Debbie Cragun moved to table the matter until the next Planning Commission Meeting, at
19   which time the applicant can hopefully be present. Staff will get more information for the
20   Planning Commission on the existing business pertaining to the questions raised at this
21   meeting. The Planning Commission will reserve the right to re-open the public hearing. Kory
22   Luker seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Kory Luker-Aye; Ulises Flynn-Aye; Debbie
23   Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
24
25   Legislative Items
26
27   5.        PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION, AND VOTE on Proposed Amendments to
28             the City Engineering Standards and Specifications. City of Bluffdale, Applicant.
29             Trevor Andra, Staff Presenter.
30
31   Assistant City Engineer, Trevor Andra, presented the staff report and explained that he would be
32   presenting new standards and changes to the existing standards. He first discussed the changes to
33   the drinking water meter, which the members of the Public Works Department can read while

                                                      5
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 4, 2020

1    driving by the meter. The result is a change of the lid to a specific DNL number. The goal is to
2    make the lid as flush with the ground level as possible to avoid accidental breakage. The change to
3    the meter service resulted in a change to the meter vault and the manhole. Mr. Andra explained that
4    a bypass option was incorporated in the event a meter breaks. The water service would not be
 5   interrupted and the water use could still be read. A meter would be put in place if the need arose.
 6
 7   Mr. Andra presented a new standard regarding a curb inlet for stormwater. Currently, the City has
 8   standards for concrete boxes but there are circular PVC types of boxes, which have a circular grate.
 9   Consequently, new standards are necessary. This new type of design is used on a project near City
10   Hall. There is more flexibility in the design for stormwater drainage. The grate and frame would
11   have the same loading requirements as the metal ones.
12
13   Mr. Andra addressed an existing standard regarding Low-Impact Development (“LID”) structures
14   in Section D-Stormwater Storage Facilities. The water is stored on-site for infiltration. The
15   standard was changed to make it more flexible in terms of what developers use and to provide a
16   clean-out manhole in the front. The previous standard did not include that requirement, so it was
17   difficult to maintain the system and clean it out. A chamber system will be used to facilitate the
18   infiltration of the water into the ground. This was intended to be an improvement to an existing
19   standard.
20
21   Mr. Andra next addressed a new standard because of changes made by the State with regard to
22   stormwater. The changes, which went into effect on March 1, 2020, require all development to use
23   some type of LID element within the stormwater. With the addition of the new standards, the City
24   will have five LID standards because the State requires five options. The standards need to be
25   based on pollutant removal from the stormwater.
26
27   The first option is for the use of “swells.” It goes over the specifics of how they are to be built with
28   the different types and levels of soils. Bluffdale City adapted information that was obtained from
29   the state of Minnesota, which has been progressive in its approach to LID. Mr. Andra referenced
30   the retention areas near the Simple Products property along 14600 South. He explained that those
31   retention areas were the premise behind the proposed standards and design guidelines.

                                                        6
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 4, 2020

 1
 2   Mr. Andra addressed a new standard that falls in line with the LID stormwater. The new example
 3   acts as a sump, the pipe has perforations and is wrapped in a stone matrix with fabric on the outside.
 4   That design would be used in a new development where there is not a stormwater system close by.
 5   There would be options for using the design along parking areas, and not along a curb and gutter.
 6   They would also have a bag that helps catch the large debris to help filter out some of the pollutants.
 7
 8   In response to Commissioner Luker’s question regarding who would replace the drainage
 9   infrastructure, Mr. Andra stated that the City would if it was a City facility. On private streets, the
10   HOA would have to budget for the replacements.
11
12   Mr. Andra reviewed another new standard, which was also an LID that would use a rain garden. He
13   pointed out that they are effective at removing pollutants but they are complex to build. There are
14   companies that make such systems “in a box” that can be dropped into place. There are also
15   companies that sell each of the individual components so that a contractor can build the system.
16
17   Mr. Andra noted that a forthcoming requirement is that any site would have to keep an 80th
18   percentile rain event on site, which would equate to approximately the first half-inch of water. The
19   rain gardens would allow that water to run into them so the water can infiltrate and remain on-site.
20
21   Mr. Andra reviewed another new standard, which was the subject of much internal discussion by
22   staff. The City has many detention/retention basins that are associated with specific cul-de-sacs that
23   serve five to 20 lots. Part of the discussion centered on what would be best for maintenance and
24   long-term needs. The Public Works Department had a particular interest in how the basins are dealt
25   with. One option was to include a requirement that specifies that any development of 10 lots or
26   fewer would be required to have a similar system. The question was how to determine when a
27   space is usable. The goal was to take an approach that requires less maintenance by the Public
28   Works Department but still looks nice. There would be no sod or sprinklers in the basins.
29
30   Mr. Andra next reviewed a plant and tree list that would accompany the design of the
31   detention/retention basins.
32
                                                       7
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 4, 2020

 1   Mr. Andra addressed a change to existing streetlights. He explained that the grounding rod will
 2   need to go into the junction box. The foundation requirements would also be changed, based on the
 3   difference between constrained and unconstrained foundations. The change would specify the use
 4   and design of unconstrained foundations.
 5
 6   Mr. Andra next discussed the conduit that comes up through the foundation to the light pole.
 7   Previously, the metal conduit was allowed, however, industry practices and standards determined
 8   that PVC, rigid metal, and fiberglass are all comparable for those installations. Consequently, the
 9   three different materials will be permitted for conduits.
10
11   Existing roads, and their cross-section detail, were Mr. Andra’s next topic. The changes will
12   specify the type of slurry fill that will be required. It will need to consist of a larger aggregate. The
13   high-density mineral bond surface treatment will be another option.
14
15   Mr. Andra next addressed a new addition to the standards: asphalt types that will be allowed.
16   Currently, all asphalt in Bluffdale follows PG64-28, which is a type of binder. Some options were
17   added to allow a deviation from that standard for the entire City. The new standard on Trails and
18   Path Pavement would allow the PG58-28 because they do not have the loading as a roadway.
19
20   The trail standard would also apply to parking lots. Mr. Andra sought feedback on how to define a
21   parking lot. Mr. Crowell stated that a distinction would be the fact that large parking lots have drive
22   aisles, which are not roadways. Roads that include on-street parking would still need to meet the
23   road standards and not the parking standards. Mr. Andra explained that roadways have their own
24   definition. He then read the proposed definition of a parking lot. Discussion ensued on how to
25   make distinctions between roadways and adjacent parking lots. He stated that there may need to be
26   a definition of how a roadway and adjacent parking lot are connected. The intent was to not lose
27   the flexibility being proposed for parking lots and roadways. The City Code contains a definition of
28   parking space and parking lot. There was additional discussion on this complex subject. Mr. Andra
29   indicated that the definitions would be adjusted.
30



                                                         8
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 4, 2020

1    Mr. Andra noted that all of the cross-sections have varying widths, whether it be the park strip,
2    travel lane, and bike and shoulder lanes. The cross-sections were updated to show that though
3    cross-sections vary, they do have a minimum width. The goal was to simplify the requirements and
 4   make them more understandable and consistent.          Mr. Crowell observed that when Special
 5   Development Districts are proposed, developers like to propose different road cross-sections so that
 6   they can have more usable space. The requests will need to be balanced with the City Standards.
 7   The key was to ensure the integrity of the asphalt in any development.
 8
 9   Mr. Andra continued with a new standard that outlines the requirements for pavement that specifies
10   that the requirements must be discussed at a “pre-pave meeting” between the City and the
11   developers. This meeting should ensure that developers encounter no surprises with regard to the
12   City’s paving requirements. Mr. Crowell suggested the removal of the term “super pave” because it
13   has different meanings to different people. Miscellaneous discussion ensued on the different types
14   of asphalt are used in different areas, and how the City might specify the materials required for
15   different types of paving projects.
16
17   The last standard Mr. Andra addressed was the “As-Builts” section. This section gives direction to
18   developers on what to submit to the City, what to collect in the field, such as GPS, valves, meters,
19   manholes etc., along with their respective elevations. This section will help to ensure that the as-
20   builts match what the City approved.
21
22   Mr. Crowell discussed the importance of keeping good records so that expectations are met and
23   historical information is preserved for future reference. Since Michael Fazio became the City
24   Engineer, the records have been much more thorough and organized. In response to Commissioner
25   Flynn’s question regarding the consequences of a developer’s failure to submit the as-builts,
26   Mr. Crowell stated that if they do not obtain the needed signature, the permit will not be issued.
27   Mr. Andra explained that if the developer has bonded on the project, they will not get their money
28   back until they have met all the requirements. The Subdivision Ordinance contains details that also
29   address this issue.
30


                                                      9
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 4, 2020

 1   Chair Cragun noted that the manual already exists and the highlighted sections were the changes.
 2   Mr. Andra noted that some developers have been proactive in implementing the LID requirements.
 3
 4   Mr. Andra commented that historically, drainages have been allowed in the back of lots, especially
 5   on larger lots. Some of the detention ponds are on residential lots, so they are an easement. In
 6   subdivisions that are larger than three lots, that provision would be discontinued because the ponds
 7   have been filled in by subsequent owners or never put in. The detention pond is still a City facility,
 8   so the change will eliminate the issue of filling in detention ponds.
 9
10   Commissioner Flynn noted that the document in the meeting packet included a Stormwater System
11   Covenant. Mr. Andra explained that it was a draft prepared by City Attorney, Vaughn Pickell. He
12   invited feedback on the draft.
13
14   Mr. Andra reported that the “Asphalt Paving and Quality Assurance Manual” is brand new. It goes
15   along with the submittal for the asphalt requirements but gives specific requirements to the mix
16   design and the submittals for that design, along with the Quality Control Plan. He clarified that the
17   standards provide an outline of the requirements and the Manual gives more depth to the
18   implementation of the standards. The Planning Commission complimented Mr. Andra for the
19   thoroughness and quality of the materials presented.
20
21   Kory Luker moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the City
22   Engineering Standards and Specifications for the City of Bluffdale, with the addition of the
23   changes suggested to Engineering Staff. Ulises Flynn seconded the motion. Vote on motion:
24   Kory Luker-Aye; Ulises Flynn-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
25
26   Discussion Items
27
28   6.     City Council Reports.
29
30   Mr. Crowell announced that Vaughn Pickell had resigned and accepted an opportunity in Spanish
31   Fork. His last day with the City of Bluffdale would be March 27. The job posting would go out
32   very soon. City Manager, Mark Reid, had already received inquiries from interested parties.
33
                                                       10
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 4, 2020

1    Mr. Crowell reported that last year the City Council updated the City Ordinance on accessory
2    dwelling units for anyone in a residential zone regarding off-street parking. The first appeal was
3    from a concerned neighbor and heard by the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer (AVHO), who
4    is legally trained and stringently adheres to State Law for variances. To date, no appellant had been
 5   successful in making an adequate case for a variance. One important requirement was that a home
 6   with an accessory dwelling unit must be owner-occupied.
 7
 8   Mr. Crowell referenced the joint City Council-Planning Commission Economic Development
 9   Meeting.   He reported that the current effort is to generate a list of priorities for economic
10   development for the City Council to consider. He noted that 14600 South is currently and signs are
11   a hot topic. He urged the Planning Commissioners to think about commercial signage.
12
13   Mr. Crowell noted that last year’s Transportation Plan was approved. It will help the City adopt the
14   Impact Fee Plan, which was approved and will go into effect on May 26. There will be a new
15   project on Loumis Parkway that will come before the Planning Commission in the near future.
16
17   Mr. Crowell referenced discussions the City Council has had about senior housing, particularly
18   behind the Midvalley Bible Church. He explained that the Planning Commission can expect to see
19   an infill townhome project on 14600 South and Camp Williams Road. Many live within the 1,000-
20   foot noticing radius, which may generate a significant amount of public comment.
21
22   7.     Planning Commission Business (Planning Session for Upcoming Items, Follow Up,
23          Etc.).
24
25   Mr. Crowell reported that there are footings in the ground for a building he believes will include a
26   coffee shop at 14000 South and Redwood Road. The City hired a vendor to help with an even
27   deeper dive on preparing a supermarket analysis to answer questions pertaining to attracting a
28   supermarket to Bluffdale. The report was expected to be ready in April.
29
30   Chair Cragun indicated that she drove past Bowcutt’s Flooring the previous Saturday and observed
31   that the parking lot was full. Mr. Crowell said it is a very good sales tax revenue generator. The
32   dominant goal is a grocery store, but other businesses are certainly welcome.


                                                      11
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 4, 2020

1
2    Mr. Crowell reported that the hotel project looks promising as timelines and layouts are now being
3    discussed. There are also engineers and architects working on the project.
 4
 5   8.     Adjournment.
 6
 7   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 8:14 p.m.
 8
 9
10
11   __________________________________
12   Pam von Petersdorff
13   Community Development Coordinator
14
15   Approved: _________________________




                                                     12
             REQUEST FOR PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION

To:                            Planning Commission
From:                          Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner
Date:                          10 April 2020
Business Date:                 15 April 2020
Subject:                       Conditional Use Application
Applicants:                    Sheena Schwemmer
Staff Presentation:            Jennifer Robison

SUMMARY:
The owners of the property listed above have a current home occupation and business license as a contractor
for a flooring company. The owners are requesting a second home occupation and business license for
beauty/salon services for teeth whitening to be allowed at the same address. Bluffdale City Code Title 11-23-2
(4) for states “The home occupation shall be licensed with the City. No more than one home occupation shall be
approved per residence unless the applicant has obtained a conditional use permit.”

The Planning Commission conducted a public hearing on the proposed application on March 4, 2020. The
applicant was unable to attend the meeting and questions regarding parking was discussed by surrounding
property owners during the hearing. In an effort to allow the applicant to address the application in person
and respond to comments, the Planning Commission tabled any action to the next available Planning
Commission meeting.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the requested Conditional Use Permit pursuant to
Chapter 11-20 and 11-23 of the Bluffdale City Code and Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-507 with the
following suggested conditions and any/all others the Planning Commission deems necessary to mitigate any
detrimental effects of the Applicant’s proposed home occupation for beauty/salon services:

   1. That the Applicant will adhere to all adopted standards and ordinances of the City of Bluffdale.
   2. That the Applicant comply with all requirements for a home occupation.
   3. That the Applicant provide necessary information to obtain a City business license.

PREVIOUS ACTIONS:
      - March 4, 2020: Planning Commission conducted and closed the public hearing. The Commission
         tabled action on the application 3-0.

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION:
     - Staff Report dated February 28, 2020.
     - Staff Presentation – March 4, 2020.
                        2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                    Community Development Department
                                              Planning Division



                                               STAFF REPORT
                                              28 February 2020


To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner

Re: Conditional Use Application – Luminescent Smiles
       Application No:         2020.10
       Applicant(s):           Sheena Schwemmer
       Project Location:       15282 South 2200 West
       Request:                To obtain a second home occupation for a beauty/salon services as
                               required by the Bluffdale City Code 11-23-2. A current home occupation
                               exists for Natures Hardwood Flooring at the same address.

SUMMARY
The owners of the property listed above have a current home occupation and business license as a
contractor for a flooring company. The owners are requesting a second home occupation and business
license for beauty/salon services for teeth whitening to be allowed at the same address. Bluffdale City
Code Title 11-23-2 (4) for states “The home occupation shall be licensed with the City. No more than one home
occupation shall be approved per residence unless the applicant has obtained a conditional use permit.”

Chapter 11-20: “Conditional Uses” states: “The Planning Commission has the authority to approve or
approve with conditions, based on standards, all conditional use applications. Denial of an application
shall only be considered if there are no conditions that can be imposed to mitigate the reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects of the use.”

The home occupation ordinance requirements that may apply to this application are as follows:

        1. The applicant for a home occupation shall reside in the residence for which the permit is being
           sought.
        2. The home occupation shall not cause a demand for Municipal or utility services or community
           facilities in excess of those customarily provided for residential uses.
        3. The home occupation shall be licensed with the City.
        4. Inspection during reasonable hours by City officials may occur as necessary to assure
           compliance with these regulations.
        5. The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
           dwelling purposes.


                                                           Conditional Use Application - Sheena Schwemmer, Applicant
                                                                      February 28, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                              Page 1
       6. The home occupation shall not require alterations to the exterior of the residence.
       7. The home occupation may be conducted within a dwelling or an accessory structure.
       8. Not more than the equivalent of twenty five percent (25%) of the ground floor area of the
           dwelling shall be devoted to the home occupation.
       9. Incidental storage related to the home occupation may be located in the dwelling unit or
           accessory structure, but shall not be located in any yard space, covered patios or carports.
       10. The home occupation shall contain no facilities for the display of goods. The home occupation
           may include the sale of commodities, however, it is the intent that it be limited to items
           produced on the premises, or items that are incidental to the service provided (i.e., a
           beautician who also sells hair care products to his/her clientele).
       11. Signs shall be limited to one non-flashing sign no larger in area than two (2) square feet.
       12. Entrance to the home occupation from outside shall be the same entrance normally used by
           the residing family except when required otherwise by regulation of the State Health
           Department or other public agency.
       13. The physical appearance, traffic and other activities in connection with the home occupation
           are not contrary to the intent of the zone in which the home occupation is located.
       14. Visitors, customers or vehicular traffic shall not exceed that normally and reasonably occurring
           for a residence in the neighborhood where the home occupation is located.
       15. No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation (clients, patrons, students, pupils, etc.)
           shall be permitted between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
       16. Recognizing that for the purposes of some home occupation activities, additional employees
           are necessary or practical, the City may allow one employee not residing on the premises,
           during appropriate daytime business hours, to work at the location of a home occupation.


STAFF RECOMMENDATION AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the requested Conditional Use Permit pursuant
to Chapter 11-20 and 11-23 of the Bluffdale City Code and Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-507 with the
following suggested conditions and any/all others the Planning Commission deems necessary to mitigate
any detrimental effects of the Applicant’s proposed home occupation for beauty/salon services:

   1. That the Applicant will adhere to all adopted standards and ordinances of the City of Bluffdale.
   2. That the Applicant comply with all requirements for a home occupation.
   3. That the Applicant provide necessary information to obtain a City business license.


MODEL MOTIONS

Motion for Approval – “I move we approve the Conditional Use Application 2020-10 subject to the
conditions and based on the findings presented in the staff report dated February 28, 2020 (or as modified
by the conditions below):”
1.      List any additional findings and/or conditions…




                                                        Conditional Use Application - Sheena Schwemmer, Applicant
                                                                   February 28, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                           Page 2
      Conditional Use
    Application (2020-10)
   15282 South 2200 West
Sheena Schwemmer- Applicant




Planning Commission Meeting
       March 4, 2020
                                             15282 South 2200 West
11-23-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:

A home occupation must comply with the
following:

A. General Requirements:

4. The home occupation shall be licensed
with the City. No more than one home
occupation shall be approved per residence
unless the applicant has obtained a
conditional use permit.




Home Occupation - Contractor
Established 10/23/2017
Schwemmer, Inc./aka
Natures Hardwood Flooring


Proposed Home Occupation – Beauty/Salon
Services
Luminescent Smiles
Organic Teeth Whitening
                         2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                     Community Development Department
                                               Planning Division


                                              DRC STAFF REPORT
                                                 10 April 2020


To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner, on behalf of the DRC

Re:     Burchett Subdivision – Preliminary and Final Subdivision Plat Applications
        Application No:        2019-54
        Applicant(s):          Karl Burchett, represented by Mark Nickel
        Address:               2552 West Silverpoint Way
        Zoning:                R-1-43 Residential
        Acreage:               3.98 acres
        Request:               To create two (2) residential lots in the one (1) acre zoning area.

SUMMARY
Subject to the DRC staff’s recommendations, the proposed applications meet the City requirements for
Preliminary and Final Plat approval as outlined in the City codes.

ANALYSIS
Anticipated Uses, Layout and Access. The current property is in the R-1-43 residential zone. The property
consists of 3.98 acres with the subdivision creating two (2) lots. Lot 1 will provide one (1) acre and will be
eligible for a future dwelling unit. Lot 2 will consist of the remainder of the property containing 2.83 acres
with an existing dwelling unit and accessory building.

Each lot is required to meet all the minimum standards for the R-1-43 zone which includes, but is not
limited to; lot width and frontage which is a minimum of 125 feet. Each lot complies with width and
frontage requirement.

The property is accessed from Silverpoint Way which is a public street up to the current property line. With
other subdivision applications, only half the street width was dedicated to the City although curb, gutter,
and sidewalk was constructed. This application will complete the dedication of 25’ to the City to for the
public right-of-way.

Adequate Public Facilities and Infrastructure. All adequate public facilities exist or will be installed with the
construction for this project.

Setbacks. The minimum setbacks for a dwelling unit in the R-1-43 zone are front = 30 feet, side = 30 feet,
and rear = 20 feet. Any future buildings will be subject to all setback and other zoning requirements in the
zone.

                                                     Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications – Burchett Subdivision
                                                                             April 10, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                   Page 1
DRC REVIEW AND COMMENTS
On behalf of the City Manager, the City’s staff involved in development review and meets together as a
Development Review Committee (DRC). The DRC generally consists of the City Manager, City Attorney, City
Engineer, Public Works Director, the City Planner, and other outside consultants as needed from time to
time. The comments of the DRC members have been included in this staff report and the recommended
conditions of approval for the project.

City Engineer. The outstanding requirements by the City Engineer and Public Works Department are
included in the recommended conditions of approval. The layout, design and construction of all
subdivisions are subject to the Bluffdale City Engineering Standards and Specifications.

Fire Chief. There a no outstanding requirements from the Fire Chief.

City Planner. The Planning Division is recommending approval with the recommended conditions.

DRC STAFF RECOMMENDATION FOR BURCHETT PRELIMINARY AND FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
DRC Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the Burchett Subdivision with the following
conditions:

1.    That all requirements of the City Codes and adopted ordinances are met and adhered to for the
      applications.
2.    That the preliminary and final plat comply with the Bluffdale City Engineering Standards and
      Specifications and recommendations by the City Engineer and Public Works Department for all
      relevant construction and plat drawings.
3.    That all construction drawings be approved and stamped by the City Engineer prior to any
      construction of improvements.
4.    That the applicant adds a note to the project plans for contractor to, “provide As-Built data in
      accordance with City of Bluffdale standards for all completed work”.
5.    That the applicant adds a note to the project plans that any asphalt replacement be done in
      accordance with City of Bluffdale Detail ST-12.
6.    That the applicant adds City of Bluffdale details COB ST-3, COB ST-7B, and COB ST-12 to the
      construction plan set.
7.    That prior to a building permit being issued, the proof of sewer service from South Valley Sewer
      District be provided to the City.
8.    That prior to a building permit being issued, the acceptance of mailbox location from United States
      Postal Service be provided to the City.
9.    That prior to a building permit being issued, the building permit applicant fully execute a
      Stormwater Covenant with the City of Bluffdale that ensures the designed stormwater system is kept
      in place and maintained properly by the property owner.
10.   That all public park strips, landscaping, irrigation and maintenance adjacent to the property is the
      responsibility of the property owner.

MODEL MOTIONS – FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT APPLICATIONS:

Motion for Approval – “I move we approve the Burchett Preliminary and Final Subdivision Plat Applications
Application 2019-54 subject to the conditions and based on the findings presented in the staff report dated
April 10, 2020, (or as modified by the conditions below):”
         1.      List any additional findings and/or conditions…


                                                 Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications – Burchett Subdivision
                                                                         April 10, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                               Page 2
                                               Memo
Date: March 13, 2020
From: Dan Tracer, Assistant City Engineer
To:      Grant Crowell, Zoning Administrator
CC:
RE:      Burchett Subdivision – Subdivision Approval



In an effort to ensure all subdivisions are compliant with City standards and ordinances, the City
Engineering Department conducts a review of all subdivision applications. We have completed our
review of the Burchett Subdivision and recommend approval be granted with the following
conditions:
      1. Prior to the Building Permit being issued, the proof of sewer service from South Valley Sewer
         District be provided to the city.
      2. Prior to the Building Permit being issued, the acceptance of mailbox location from United
         States Postal Service be provided to the city.
      3. The applicant add a note to the project plans for contractor to, “provide As-Built data in
         accordance with City of Bluffdale standards for all completed work”.
      4. The applicant add a note to the project plans that any asphalt replacement be done in
         accordance with City of Bluffdale Detail ST-12.
      5. The applicant adds City of Bluffdale details COB ST-3, COB ST-7B, and COB ST-12 to the plan
         set.
      6. Prior to the Building Permit being issued, the building permit applicant fully execute a
         Stormwater Covenant with the City of Bluffdale that ensures the designed stormwater
         system is kept in place and maintained properly by the property owner.
We ask that the subdivision be approved with these conditions.




Dan Tracer, P.E. – Assistant City Engineer
City of Bluffdale




                                                  1 of 1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kip & Kristy Watterson                                                                                                                                                             & light company
                                             9                                    9                                                                                                                                            bk 8301 pg 6324                                 N89°54'03"W 2642.07' (N89°53'59"W 2642.12' REC)                            S89°54'03"E 1321.04' Utahbk Power
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5122 pg 343                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                   D                                                                            S89°53'31"E 261.68' (EAST 264' REC)                                                                                C 1/16 SECTION LINE
                                 16 16
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               216.68'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16 15                                                                                              SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
  FOUND STANDARD                                                                                                                                         1/16 SECTION LINE                                                                               45.00'                     10' PUE                                                           10' PUE
  MONUMENT RING AND                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOUND REBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IN MONUMENT                                                                                                  I, Mark S. Nickel, do hereby certify that I am a Registered Land Surveyor, and that I hold
  LID WITH BRASS CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITH RING AND                                                                                            certificate no. 7028650 as prescribed under the laws of the State of Utah. I further certify that by
                                                                                                                                                   LOT 304                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LID                                                                                                        the authority of the Owners, I have made a survey of the tract of land shown on this plat and
                                                                                                                                                   SYNERGY HOMES LLC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              described below, and have subdivided said tract of land into lots and streets, hereafter to be




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          287.62'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20' WIDE SEWER EASEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               known as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20' WIDE SEWER EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S.V.S.D. BK. 9802 PG 87-90                                                                                                  S.V.S.D. BK. 9474 PG 4465                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Burchett Subdivision




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (DEED RUNS ALONG SUBDIVISION)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DATED 2/5/10                                                                                                                DATED 6/6/07
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    and that same has been correctly surveyed and staked on the ground as shown on the plat. I

            Burchett Subdivision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     further certify that the lot described meets the frontage width and area requirements of the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       applicable zoning ordinance.

  Located in the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 16,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION
  Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, Bluffdale City,                                                                                                                                                                                                 10' PRIVATE SEWER
  Salt Lake County, State of Utah.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LATERAL EASEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IN FAVOR OF LOT 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               A Parcel of land located in the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 16,
                                                                                                                                            SCENIC RIDGE ESTATES PHASE 3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, Bluffdale City, Salt Lake
                                                                                                                                            BK 2005 PG 91                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      County, State of Utah, (Basis of bearing being between the Southwest and Southeast
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               corners of the Northeast quarter, said bearing being N 89°52'59” E), being more
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               particularly described as follows;




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N0°17'43"E 2644.97' (N0°17'49"E 2644.90' REC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Beginning at a point which is 661.04 feet, N 00°22'30" E along the section line to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               north 1/32nd line & along said 1/32nd line 727.33 feet, S89°53'15”E from the Southwest
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               corner of the Northeast Quarter of said section and running thence, N 00°21'10” E for a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 636.11' (DEED CALLS ALONG SUBDIVISION) 10' PUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               distance of 661.10 feet also the northerly portion of this line being along the East




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S0°17'44"W 661.11' (SOUTH 660' OR 40 RODS REC)
                                                                                                                                                                                             N0°21'10"E 661.10' (NORTH 660' OR 40 RODS REC)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LEGEND: (EXISTING)                                                                                                                                                                      boundary line of the Scenic Ridge Estates Phase 3 Subdivision to the North 1/16th line;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOUND SECTION CORNER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Thence along said 1/16th line, S 89°53'31” E for a distance of 261.68 feet to the West




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10' PUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SET PROP CORNERS (YELLOW CAP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FOUND REBAR & CAP                                                                                                                                                             property line of the Silver point Estates Subdivision; thence along said Silver point
                                 S0°22'30"W 2644.16' (S00°22'32"W 2644.15' REC)




                                                                                                                                                        LOT 305                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Subdivision, S 00°17'44” W a distance of 661.11 feet to the center line of Silver Point
                                                                                                                                                        UPLAND CAPITAL LLC                                                                                                                 10' PUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Way and the North line of the Greene Subdivision; thence along said north line of Green
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N89°53'15"W 125.00'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Subdivision N 89°53'15” W for a distance of 262.34 feet to the POINT OF BEGINNING;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10' PUE                                             DRAINAGE EASEMENT                                                                Silverpoint Estates                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Containing 173,214 square feet or 3.98 acres more or less.
                                                                                                                       4679.86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN FAVOR OF THE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CITY OF BLUFFDALE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Bk 2004 pg 44
                                                                                                                       mon fnd




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  92.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S S I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OFE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LOT 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        WAHLEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7028650




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              L I CEN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     YOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LOT 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    348.48'
                                                                                  N0°22'30"E 661.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MARK S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      348.48'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NICKEL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  123,097 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10' PUE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40.5                                   2.83 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OF U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LOT 1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N00°21'10"E
                                                                                                                    Note: Fema - Zone X - map no. 49035C0577E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OWNER'S DEDICATION
                                                                                                                    effective date: 9/21/2001                                                                                                                          43,560 SQFT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N0°17'45"E 1322.47'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.00 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                                                                        Know all men by these presents that we, the undersigned owner(S) of the above
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2536 West SilverPoint Way




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2200 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              described tract of land, having caused said tract to be subdivided into lots and streets to




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2490 W
                                                                                       25' access easement (entry no 7341859, 7341860, 7341861, & 7341863) 2552 West SilverPoint Way                                                                                                                                           Bluffdale, Utah 84065




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2405 W
                                                                                            Public Utility Easement - entry no. 7341862)                   Bluffdale, Utah 84065                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              be hereafter known as the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15000 S
                                                                                           Sewer Easement (Entry no. 8704790)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MOUNTAINSIDE DR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2475 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Burchett Subdivision




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2990 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2700 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15090 S                                                  MOUNTAINSIDE CIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI
                                                                                                                                                                   Garn & Pam McMullin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15170 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ILLIA
                                                                                                                                                                   bk 9102 pg 51                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THUNDERHEAD WAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              do hereby dedicate for perpetual use of the public all parcels of land shown on this plat




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        LL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              as intended for public use.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2200 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15250 S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2765 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              In witness whereby, we have hereunto set out hands this
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10' PUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SILVERPOINT WAY

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IRON HORSE BLVD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              day of                          AD, 20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Irrigation line




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PITCHFORK CT

                                                                                                           -40               0       20     40             80                          160




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WIL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ACKNOWLEDGMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           LIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10' IRRIGATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EASEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         10' PUE                                                     10' PUE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  STATE OF UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    125.00'                                                      137.31' RIGHT OF WAY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S.S.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SILVERPOINT WAY                                                                                                                                                                                                NTS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              County of Salt Lake
   LAND SURVEYING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                25' TO BE DEDICATED TO CITY (6559.31 SQ. FT, 0.15 Acres)
                                                                                                                                          N89°53'15"W 727.33'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 On the              day of                               , personally appeared before
                                                                                                                                             1/32 SECTION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E                             1/32 SECTION LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       me, the undersigned Notary Public, in and for said County of Salt Lake in said State of
                                                                                                                                                                                             F P.O.B.                                                                            N89°53'15"W 262.34'                           (WEST 264' REC)
                                                                                                       N0°22'30"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25' RIGHT OF WAY DEDICATED TO PUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Utah, the signer(s) of the above Owners dedication,        in number, who duly
                                                                                                         661.04'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FOUND STANDARD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIGHT OF WAY LINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MONUMENT RING                                                                                                      acknowledged uses and purposes therein mentioned.
    DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Greene Subdivision                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AND LID WITH BRASS                                                                                                 My commission expires
                                 16 16                                                                                                                                                  S89°52'59"E 1322.88'                                                                              bk 2006 pg 374                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CAP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             16 15
      PO BOX. 95029
  SOUTH JORDAN, UT 84095                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S89°52'59"E 2645.75' (2645.74' REC)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Notary Public
                                 16 16 BENCHMARK = 4727.23'
   PHONE: (801) 446-1820
    WWW.FLINTUTAH.COM
                                 FOUND
                                                                                                       A                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BASIS OF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      residing in                                          County
                                 REBAR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jordan School District

                                                                2536 West Silverpoint Way
                                                                                           Address Subdivision                                                       Developer                                                                                           Comcast Cable                      Date                  Signed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Date                                                    Signed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Burchett Subdivision
                                                                                                                                                                Karl Burchett                                                                                            Century Link                     Date                   Signed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Contains 2 Lots                                                           3.98 Acres
                                                                Bluffdale, Utah 84065                                                                           2536 West Silverpoint Way                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Located in the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 16,
PROJECT #                                                                                                                                                       Bluffdale, Utah 84065                                                                                    Dominion Energy                    Date                  Signed
190904                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Post office                                            Date          Signed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Township 4 South, Range 1 West, Salt Lake Base and Meridian, Bluffdale City,
DATE SURVEYED                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rocky Mountin Power               Date                  Signed                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salt Lake County, State of Utah.
9/13/19

 Bluffdale City Planning Commission                                                                                                              South Valley Sewer District                                                                                            Board of Health                                         Bluffdale City Engineer's Certificate                                                                  Approval as to Form                                                                                                                                                    Bluffdale City Mayor                                                                                             RECORDED #
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I here by certify that this office has                                                                                                                                                                                                 Presented to Bluffdale City                                                                                                                           State of Utah, County of                                    Recorded and filed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  examined this plat and it is correct in                                                                                                                                                                                                This                 Day of                  AD, 20       ,                                                                                           at the request of
Approved This           Day of                                                                                      AD, 20       ,          Approved This            Day of                                                                          Approved This                       Day of                                                                                                                              Approved This               Day of                                         AD, 20                                       ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  accordance with information on file in this                                                                                                                                                                                            at which time this subdivision was approved and accepted.
                                                                                                                                            AD, 20     ,                                                                                             AD, 20     ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Date                       Time         Book                            Page
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  office.

                Bluffdale City Planning Commission                                                                                               Date                Swr Improv. District                                                                             Salt Lake Valley Health Dept.                                   Date        Bluffdale City Engineer                                                                             Bluffdale City Attorney                                                                                              Bluffdale City Mayor                                                                                               Bluffdale City Recorder          Fee $                                          County Recorder
                        2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                    Community Development Department
                                              Planning Division


                                               STAFF REPORT
                                                10 April 2020


To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner

Re:     General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Application
        Application No:       2020-11
        Applicant(s):         Howland Partners
        Address:              Approximately 13975 South 2700 West
        General Plan:         Very Low Density Residential
        Zoning:               R-1-43 Residential
        Acreage:              4.50 acres
        Request:              To consider an amendment to the City General Plan Land Use Map from
                              Very Low Density Residential to Multi-family Residential to provide the
                              opportunity for future residential development which may include dwelling
                              units up to 8 units per acre for 55+ housing units.

SUMMARY
The City of Bluffdale’s General Plan (Adopted March 25, 2014) provides a Land Use Map illustrating areas
for current and possible future growth opportunities for all land use types desired by the City. The purpose
of the General Plan is to establish policies, goals and objectives in balancing future residential growth and
economic opportunities while maintaining the overall unique attributes the City desires for the residents.
The City of Bluffdale General Plan should be a guideline in making land use decisions by the Land Use
Authority which is the City Council for this application following a recommendation by the Planning
Commission.

ANALYSIS
General Plan: The property which is the subject of this application is currently in a predominantly
residential area and identified as Very Low Density Residential in the General Plan. This land use
designation provides large lot and agriculture development. The applicants are requesting to change the
land use designation to Multi-Family Residential which allows a range of density from 4 to 20 units per
acre. This land use would provide the opportunity for future developments to varied residential units
including single-family, multi-family townhomes, condominiums or apartments, or smaller units for senior
housing. These higher density areas may be located adjacent to commercial land uses and areas where
adequate infrastructure exists or can be provided to support the residents.

Land uses within the corridor from Bangerter Highway to 14000 South have recently been changed from
residential to commercial uses in anticipation of future economic growth for the City. Future changes are
also anticipated for the Bangerter Highway intersection at 2700 west including a reconstructed highway

                                       General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Application– Howland Partners, Applicants
                                                                         April 10, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                              Page 1
interchange by the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT). There are civic uses in the area with the
Midvalley Bible Church immediately adjacent to the subject property, the North Star Academy elementary
school, and the Wardle Fields Regional Park.

Although the applicant has provided information to the City of their intent to seek for senior housing for
this property, the City’s current zoning structure does not provide for these types of residential land uses
within the code. The multi-family residential land use designation would provide for all future
opportunities for growth within the density and land use description. If an amendment to the General Plan
Land Use map for this application is approved to Multi-Family Residential, the City would need to consider
adopting a new zoning designation with accompanying development standards and requirements. The
Planning Commission should consider all the impacts of potentially changing the land use policy in this
area and not specific development plans.

APPROVAL CRITERIA FOR THE APPLICATION:
General Plan Land Use Map amendments are a legislative decision of the City Council, after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission. Broad discretion is given to the City’s Land Use
Authorities when making land use decisions. Consideration for amending the General Plan Land Use Map
may include, but not limited to; opportunities for future development to balance the goals of the City and
property owners, adequate infrastructure, and meeting the overall needs of the community for future
residential and economic growth are all valid considerations when making land use decisions. The
Planning Commission should establish adequate findings in support of a positive or negative outcome and
forward those findings to the City Council.

MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE APPLICATION:
Model for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the General Plan Land Use Map Amendment (2020-11) based on the findings presented in the Staff
Report dated April 10, 2020 (and including the following additional findings):”

       1.     List all findings for approval…

Motion for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the General Plan Land Use Amendment (2020-11) based on the following findings:”
        1.      List all findings for denial…

ATTACHMENTS
   1. Aerial map of subject property
   2. Maps of existing and proposed conditions




                                      General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Application– Howland Partners, Applicants
                                                                        April 10, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 2
•

•
•

•


•




    •

    •

    •

    •

    •
                         2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                     Community Development Department
                                               Planning Division


                                                  STAFF REPORT
                                                   10 April 2020


To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner

Re:     General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Application
        Application No:       2020-08
        Applicant(s):         Quail Ridge Bluffdale Development LLC
        Address:              Approximately 13975 South 2700 West
        General Plan:         Commercial
        Zoning:               R-1-10 Residential with an I-O (Infill Overlay)
        Acreage:              1.96 acres
        Request:              To consider an amendment to the City General Plan Land Use Map from
                              Commercial to Multi-family Residential to provide the opportunity for
                              future residential development which may include multi-family
                              townhomes.

SUMMARY
The City of Bluffdale’s General Plan (Adopted March 25, 2014) provides a Land Use Map illustrating areas
for current and possible future growth opportunities for all land use types desired by the City. The purpose
of the General Plan is to establish policies, goals and objectives in balancing future residential growth and
economic opportunities while maintaining the overall unique attributes the City desires for the residents.
The City of Bluffdale General Plan should be a guideline in making land use decisions by the Land Use
Authority which is the City Council for this application following a recommendation by the Planning
Commission.

ANALYSIS
Previous Applications: The City Council approved a Zoning Map Amendment for the subject property from
R-1-10 residential to R-1-10 with an Infill Overlay on September 12, 2018. The property is constrained by
topography and a new road connecting 14600 South directly to Redwood Road/Camp Williams Road
making it difficult to apply setbacks as required by the existing R-1-10 zone. In applying for an Infill Overlay
over their property, it allowed modified setbacks for a proposed subdivision of six (6) single-family lots to
facilitate more buildable area.

The Preliminary and Final Subdivision Applications were also approved by the City Council at the same
meeting. The Applicant did not apply to change the designation by the General Plan as a future
commercial area, but desired to implement the existing zoning (R-1-10) on the property. The Applicants
have experienced challenges in marketing the property for single-family homes with the unique
topography adjacent to a future high capacity road. Their desire is to keep the area residential to be

                      General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Application– Quail Ridge Bluffdale Development LLC, Applicants
                                                                             April 10, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                  Page 1
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood but provide a better economic opportunity for the
property to develop.

General Plan: The Bluffdale City General Plan currently identifies a commercial land use designation on the
General Plan Map for this property and other areas along Camp Williams Road. Although the General Plan
was updated in 2014, the map was not revised from previous commercial designations. Since that time,
the Planning Commission and City Council have identified and evaluated other areas of the City to
prioritize for commercial and economic development growth.

The City does allow multi-family housing through a mix of uses, comprehensive development agreements
and project plans, or a special development zone with acreage thresholds. Although the applicant has
provided information to the City of their intent to seek for townhomes for this property, the City’s current
zoning structure does not provide for these types of small residential land uses within the code framework.
The multi-family residential land use designation would provide for all future opportunities for growth
within the density and land use description. If an amendment to the General Plan Land Use map for this
application is approved to Multi-Family Residential, the City would need to consider adopting a new
zoning designation with accompanying development standards and requirements. The Planning
Commission should consider all the impacts of potentially changing the land use policy in this area and not
specific future development plans.

APPROVAL CRITERIA FOR THE APPLICATION:
General Plan Land Use Map amendments are a legislative decision of the City Council, after receiving a
recommendation from the Planning Commission. Broad discretion is given to the City’s Land Use
Authorities when making land use decisions. Consideration for amending the General Plan Land Use Map
may include, but not limited to; opportunities for future development to balance the goals of the City and
property owners, adequate infrastructure, and meeting the overall needs of the community for future
residential and economic growth are all valid considerations when making land use decisions. The
Planning Commission should establish adequate findings in support of a positive or negative outcome and
forward those findings to the City Council.

MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE APPLICATION:
Model for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the General Plan Land Use Map Amendment (2020-08) based on the findings presented in the Staff
Report dated April 10, 2020 (and including the following additional findings):”

       1.     List all findings for approval…

Motion for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the General Plan Land Use Amendment (2020-08) based on the following findings:”
        1.      List all findings for denial…

ATTACHMENTS
   1. Aerial map of subject property
   2. Maps of existing and proposed conditions




                     General Plan Land Use Map Amendment Application– Quail Ridge Bluffdale Development LLC, Applicants
                                                                            April 10, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                 Page 2
•


•


•


•


•
                                    BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                    LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD
                                 REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD
                                   COMBINED MEETING AGENDA
                                    Wednesday, April 08, 2020

                           *This meeting will only be conducted electronically*

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Council, LBA & RDA will hold a joint electronic meeting Wednesday,
April 08, 2020, scheduled to begin promptly at 6:00 p.m. or as soon thereafter as possible. There are various ways
to participate in this electronic meeting:
     1. Please check the City website for the most up-to-date details to access the electronic meeting:
        www.bluffdale.com
     2. Email your comments to: councilmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com and include either “Public Forum” or
        “Pubic Hearing” (include the Agenda Item # with Public Hearing items) in the subject line of the email.
     3. Mail your written comments to: Bluffdale City Recorder, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah 84065
All comments can be read aloud if you indicate to do so. All comments received will be forwarded to the Bluffdale
City Council and will be included in the public record.

BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL REGULAR BUSINESS MEETING 6:00 P.M.

1. Roll Call

2. PUBLIC FORUM – Public Comments may be submitted via email or mail as outlined above.

3. CONSENT AGENDA –
   3.1 Approval of the February 26, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes.
   3.2 Approval of the February 26, 2020, Special City Council & Planning Commission Combined Meeting Minutes
       (Economic Development).
   3.3 Approval of the March 11, 2020, City Council Meeting Minutes.
   3.4 Approval of the March 11, 2020, Special City Council & Planning Commission Combined Meeting Minutes
       (Economic Development).
   3.5 Approval of a resolution authorizing execution of an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement with Salt Lake
       County related to Corridor Preservation Funds for the 1516 West 14600 South project.
   3.6 Approval of a resolution of the Bluffdale City Council awarding the Parks Building Addition Project and
       establishing a contingency.

4. COVID-19 Briefing, staff presenters, Battalion Fire Chief Warren James and Natalie Hall.
 5. Consideration and vote on a resolution appointing a City Attorney for the City of Bluffdale, staff presenter,
    Mark Reid.

 6. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on a resolution adopting the Tentative Budget for the 2020-2021
    Fiscal Year and establishing the Time and Place for the Public Hearing on the Final Budget for the 2020-2021
    Fiscal Year, staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer. (LBA & RDA FY2020 Tentative Budget
    discussions held in conjunction)

LOCAL BUILDING AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE BOARD MEETING
    1. Roll Call
    2. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on a resolution adopting the Tentative Budget for the 2020-
       2021 Fiscal Year and establishing the Time and Place for the Public Hearing on the Final Budget for the
       2020-2021 Fiscal Year, staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer. (LBA FY2020 Tentative
       Budget discussion held in conjunction with the Budget discussion)
    3. Adjournment
BLUFFDALE CITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY BOARD MEETING
    1. Roll Call
    2. PUBLIC HEARING – Consideration and vote on a resolution adopting the Tentative Budget for the 2020-
       2021 Fiscal Year and establishing the Time and Place for the Public Hearing on the Final Budget for the
       2020-2021 Fiscal Year, staff presenters, Bruce Kartchner and Stephanie Thayer. (RDA FY2020 Tentative
       Budget discussion held in conjunction with the Budget discussion)
    3. Adjournment
CONTINUATION OF BUSINESS MEETING

 7. Mayor’s Report

 8. City Manager Report and Discussion

 9. Closed meeting pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-205(1) to discuss the character, professional competence, or
    health of an individual, collective bargaining, pending or imminent litigation, strategies to discuss real
    property acquisition, including any form of a water right or water shares, security issues, or any alleged
    criminal misconduct (if needed).

 10. Adjournment

Dated: April 03, 2020

I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING NOTICE AND AGENDA WAS FAXED TO THE SOUTH VALLEY JOURNAL, THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNE, AND
THE DESERET NEWS; POSTED AT THE BLUFFDALE CITY HALL, EMAILED OR DELIVERED TO EACH MEMBER OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL;
ON THE CITY’S WEBSITE AT WWW.BLUFFDALE.COM AND ON THE PUBLIC MEETING NOTICE WEBSITE, WWW.PMN.UTAH.GOV




                                                                 Wendy L. Deppe, CMC
                                                                 City Recorder

In compliance with the American with Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this meeting
should contact Bluffdale City Hall at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at 801-254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
