                                          BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                                   MEETING AGENDA
                                               Wednesday, March 19, 2025

Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Planning Commission will hold a public meeting on Wednesday, March 19,
2025, at 6:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible at the Bluffdale City Hall, 2222 West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. This
meeting may also be broadcast live to the public on the City’s website www.bluffdale.com. Notice is further given that access to
this meeting by Commission members may be via electronic means via telephone conference call.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING 6:00 PM
    1.   Roll Call.
    2.   Invocation/Thought/Reading and Pledge of Allegiance.
    3.   Approval of Minutes from February 19, 2025 Planning Commission meeting.
    4.   Public Comment: Any person who wishes to comment on items not scheduled on the agenda for a public hearing
         may address the Planning Commission and comments will be limited to not more than three (3) minutes.

LEGISLATIVE ITEMS:
   5. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a proposed Land Use Ordinance Text Amendment
       to Section 11.120.060 to allow gravel parking lots for conditional uses along with proposed conditions for
       consideration. Strangling Brothers LLC, Applicant, represented by Scott Knight. Caitlyn Tubbs, staff presenter.
       (Application 2024-51) – Continued from February 19, 2025 meeting

DISCUSSION ITEMS:
    6.   Planning Commission Training – Integrated Land Use and Water General Plan Element.
    7.   Planning Commission Business (planning session for upcoming items, follow up, etc.).
    8.   Adjournment.

                                                                  Dated: March 12, 2025




                                                                  Grant Crowell, AICP
                                                                  Community and Economic Development Director

         In compliance with the American Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation
         for this meeting should contact Bluffdale City at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at (801)254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                  Wednesday, February 19, 2025

 1   Present:
 2
 3   Members:        Debbie Cragun, Chair
 4                   Ulises Flynn
 5                   Erik Swanson
 6
 7   Staff:          Caitlyn Tubbs, Planning Manager
 8                   Ellen Oakman, Associate City Planner
 9                   Courtney Peterson, AV Technician
10                   Kjersti Jarman, Community Development Coordinator
11
12   Public:         Steve Austin
13                   Taylor Alba
14                   Scott Knight
15                   Bob Tillotson
16                   Zac Tillotson
17
18   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING
19
20   1.       Roll Call.
21
22   Chair Debbie Cragun called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.
23
24   2.       Invocation/Thought/Reading and Pledge of Allegiance.
25
26   Taylor Alba offered the invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
27
28   3.       Approval of Minutes from the February 5, 2025 Planning Commission Meeting.
29
30   Chair Cragun reported that two of the three Commissioners in attendance were not present at the
31   February 5, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting, and as such, the minutes should be tabled for
32   consideration at the next meeting.
33
34   Chair Cragun moved to TABLE approval of the Minutes of the February 5, 2025 Planning
35   Commission Meeting. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Flynn. Vote on motion:
36   Ulises Flynn-Yes, Erik Swanson -Yes, Chair Cragun-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
37
38   4.       Public Comment.
39
40   There was no public comment.
41

                                                      1
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, February 19, 2025

 1   LEGISLATIVE ITEMS
 2
 3   5.       PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION, AND RECOMMENDATION on a Proposed
 4            Land Use Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 11.120.060 to Allow Gravel Parking
 5            Lots for Conditional Uses. Strangling Brothers, LLC Applicant, Represented by Scott
 6            Knight. Caitlyn Tubbs, Staff Presenter. (Application 2024-51).
 7
 8   Planning Manager, Caitlyn Tubbs, presented the Staff Report and stated that the applicant proposed
 9   establishing a seasonal haunted circus at 734 West 14600 South (Bluffdale Boulevard). The property
10   is located in the Heavy Commercial (“HC”) Zone, and the proposed use falls under the Land Use
11   designation “Recreation and Entertainment, Outdoor,” which is a Conditional Use in the zone. In
12   addition to applying for the Text Amendment for a gravel parking lot, the applicant will need to go
13   through the Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”) and Site Plan Review processes. They indicated that
14   the ability to utilize a gravel parking lot is pivotal to the feasibility of the proposal, so they were
15   requesting the Text Amendment prior to submitting the other applications.
16
17   Bluffdale City Code § 11.120.060(A) specifies that all parking lots and parking structures shall be
18   hard-surfaced with asphalt or concrete. The City Engineers have specific standards for materials and
19   construction methods in order to pass inspection. The applicant proposed the following Text
20   Amendment to allow for gravel parking lots to be utilized instead of the required paved parking
21   surface.
22
23   1.       Eligibility
24        •   Gravel parking lots may be permitted in lieu of paved parking surfaces for projects requiring
25            a CUP, subject to the following conditions:
26        •   The project must demonstrate that a gravel surface is more appropriate for the intended use
27            considering factors such as cost, environmental impact, or stormwater management.
28        •   The proposed gravel parking lot must meet all City safety and drainage standards.
29
30   2.       Design and Construction Standards
31   Gravel parking lots approved under this subsection must comply with the following standards:




                                                        2
                                DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                         MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, February 19, 2025

 1        •   Base Preparation: A compacted subgrade and suitable base layer to ensure durability and
 2            prevent erosion.
 3        •   Gravel Type: Crushed gravel with a size and composition approved by the City Engineer.
 4        •   Drainage: A drainage plan, approved by the City Engineer, to manage runoff.
 5
 6   3.       Maintenance Requirements
 7        •   The property owner must maintain the gravel parking lot in good condition, free from
 8            potholes, weeds, and debris.
 9        •   Regular grading may be required to ensure a level surface.
10
11   4.       Review and Approval
12        •   Applications for gravel parking lots must be submitted as part of the CUP application.
13        •   Approval is subject to review by the Planning Commission and compliance with all applicable
14            City standards.
15
16   Ms. Tubbs noted that, per State Code, Conditional Uses must be approved unless there are anticipated
17   detrimental effects that cannot be offset by reasonable conditions. The City of Bluffdale previously
18   moved common uses that do not have a significant negative impact on the Permitted Uses list. Items
19   left on the Non-Residential Conditional Use list in the Land Use Table are higher intensity uses such
20   as general manufacturing, hospitals, recreation and entertainment, etc. Residential Conditional Uses
21   include canine hobby licenses, equestrian facilities, golf courses, and the sale of agricultural products.
22   If the City were to allow gravel parking lots, they would be allowed for all Conditional Uses.
23
24   The Engineering Department expressed concerns about trackout and stormwater impacts as gravel
25   migrates. They would want to ensure that measures are in place to keep the gravel on the site and out
26   of the storm drainage facilities. In addition, allowing gravel parking lots could result in additional
27   street sweeping and cleaning needs. They also expressed concern about long-term upkeep and the
28   ability of the surface to hold vehicle weight, particularly emergency vehicles.
29
30   Ms. Tubbs reviewed changes to relevant portions of Bluffdale City Code since the City was
31   incorporated in 1978 and noted that the requirement for paved surfaces has been consistently upheld

                                                         3
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, February 19, 2025

 1   throughout all changes to the Code. Staff found that the proposed language may require additional
 2   detail and formatting to detail things like who is responsible for overall upkeep and reinspection
 3   requirements.
 4
 5   Commissioner Flynn asked if gravel is allowed in any zones. Ms. Tubbs reported that the Sand and
 6   Gravel Zone allows for the storage of those types of materials and there is some open storage that is
 7   grandfathered in in Industrial areas. However, it is very uncommon in Bluffdale. In response to a
 8   follow-up question, Ms. Tubbs clarified that if the City were to amend the City Code to allow for
 9   gravel parking lots, conditions included in the CUP could designate a particular staff member or
10   department to facilitate enforcement or reinspection. If it was not addressed in the CUP, either Code
11   Enforcement, the Building Official, or the Fire Marshall would inspect the property for compliance.
12
13   Chair Cragun asked if the consistent requirement for asphalt or concrete has been a conscious decision
14   to deter gravel or just because no one had asked for approval to use it. Ms. Tubbs stated that the
15   minutes from meetings in which the specific Code sections were adopted did not specifically mention
16   someone requesting gravel.      However, when they recently updated the City Standards and
17   Specifications, the engineering manuals explicitly stated that a hard-paved surface is required. Extra
18   costs associated with street sweeping, etc., would be discussed during the review of the CUP
19   application, and conditions can be imposed based on the Planning Commission’s observations and
20   Staff’s findings.
21
22   In response to a question raised by Commissioner Swanson, Ms. Tubbs clarified that if approved, a
23   gravel parking lot could potentially be available to all Conditional Uses. In response to a follow-up
24   question, Ms. Tubbs stated that they would request more information about the specific type of gravel
25   and road base to be used, the method of installation and compaction, the plan for ongoing maintenance
26   and inspection of the surface, and a work plan to address any deficiencies found upon inspection. The
27   City’s main obligation is to the health, safety, and welfare of the public, and any problems with a
28   gravel parking lot that would impede an emergency vehicle from responding would be a concern.
29   They would also need to do additional formatting and add specificity regarding installation,
30   warranties, etc. She clarified that the State requires the City to adopt all requirements in a standard


                                                       4
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, February 19, 2025

 1   or Ordinance, so they cannot include a requirement for future approval by the Building Official or
 2   City Engineer.
 3
 4   Chair Cragun asked if it would be possible to write the Ordinance to only apply to seasonal uses so
 5   all Conditional Uses would not be allowed to have gravel parking lots. Ms. Tubbs stated that the
 6   language could be made more specific, but she reminded the Commission that often “temporary” is
 7   not really temporary. When the Applicant first approached the City, they looked at the existing
 8   Temporary Use Code, which provides for a maximum timeframe of 30 days. The Applicant indicated
 9   that they would need to keep the facility onsite all year.
10
11   Commissioner Flynn asked if Staff felt that more time was needed to add more detail to the Text
12   Amendment. Ms. Tubbs stated that some issues can be corrected by modifying the language, but they
13   would need direction from the Planning Commission in order to proceed with other changes.
14
15   The applicant, Robert Tillotson, provided background on the company. He has been doing haunted
16   houses for 30 years and has had them in Provo, Ogden, Draper, American Fork, and three cities in
17   Texas. They understand the need to keep the parking lot clean, and they have had no complaints from
18   the cities they’ve worked with. His experience is that the gravel parking lot works well and is a good
19   compromise. The type of gravel that is used in the parking area is different from the type used near
20   the exit, so trackout is kept to a minimum. He believes the parcel will eventually have businesses on
21   it, so a paved parking lot would have to be demolished in the future.
22
23   In response to a question raised by Commissioner Swanson, Mr. Tillotson stated that sometimes they
24   have to bring in different soil to use as a foundation for the gravel. They would conduct a compaction
25   test to determine if that is necessary, but he believes the base layer at the location will not require
26   modification. It is their responsibility to ensure that the parking lot can support emergency vehicles
27   and semi-trucks. Ms. Tubbs clarified that those requirements would also be addressed in the
28   standards.
29




                                                        5
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, February 19, 2025

 1   In response to a question from Commissioner Flynn, Mr. Tillotson stated that his Draper property
 2   was on the frontage road between Harmon’s and the interstate. The American Fork location is at 632
 3   East 1500 South.
 4
 5   In response to a follow-up question, Mr. Tillotson stated that he is not concerned about traffic and
 6   construction in the area. The haunted house will not open until 8:00 p.m. in September and 7:30 p.m.
 7   in October but they are usually not busy until after 8:00 p.m. They open on the second or third
 8   weekend of September and run through the end of October. If Halloween is on a Thursday, they
 9   might stay open through the following weekend. Their target audience is from 12 to 80 years old.
10
11   Chair Cragun asked about how the property will be maintained in the 10 months each year that the
12   haunted house is not open. Mr. Tillotson stated that he operates another company out of the American
13   Fork location, so they are there all the time. They understand that their responsibility is to keep the
14   area clean. There will be no access to the Bluffdale property during those months, so there should
15   not be any issues with trackout. With regard to security, the production is held in semitrailers and a
16   circus tent. The tent is taken down when production closes. With the exception of some large, low-
17   value items, everything else is secured inside the trailers.
18
19   A Google Maps image of the American Fork property was displayed. Mr. Tillotson noted that the
20   image showed remnants of a production that was moved to a new location, and the Bluffdale site
21   would be cleaned up by the end of November.
22
23   Chair Cragun opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
24   closed.
25
26   Chair Cragun stated that she does not have a problem with gravel driveways as long as things like the
27   type of gravel, compaction testing, cleanup, and who is responsible for what is well-defined.
28   However, they did not have a Text Amendment that was written by Staff or Legal Counsel, and she
29   was uncomfortable voting on the proposed text. The actual text could address concerns about damage
30   to cars, dangers to cyclists, provide specifications for materials, etc. Commissioner Swanson agreed.
31   He supported allowing gravel for this use. There are similar uses in Lehigh, and he believes a gravel


                                                         6
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, February 19, 2025

 1   parking lot is suitable for them. He suggested tabling the item until the final text is available.
 2   Commissioner Flynn concurred that the Commission needs to understand the engineering aspects.
 3
 4   Commissioner Flynn asked if it would be practical to create a new zone that handles this type of
 5   temporary, seasonal use. In response to a clarifying question from Ms. Tubbs, he stated that Heavy
 6   Commercial implies heavy industry, whereas the proposed use is a recreational business. Ms. Tubbs
 7   noted that with a CUP, the approval runs with the land. Even if they added a transitional zone, if a
 8   CUP is approved and the property is later rezoned, the permit would still be valid. They could address
 9   the issue in a number of different Code sections. For example, the Temporary Use Code allows for
10   temporary uses up to 30 days, but the Planning Commission and City Council could investigate
11   broadening that timeframe for an outdoor recreation facility. Commissioner Flynn stated that it would
12   be helpful to have the full Planning Commission participate in the discussion on how to create the
13   proper framework for this type of business.
14
15   Chair Cragun asked if the CUP could be pulled if the Applicant did not uphold the agreement.
16   Ms. Tubbs stated that they would be allowed a certain amount of time to come back into compliance.
17   However, the City Code does provide a mechanism for rescinding CUPs. She noted that if the original
18   user decided to move from the site, another business could use the same CUP in that location with no
19   additional review.
20
21   In response to a question, Ms. Tubbs reported that the City Code does not include a definition for
22   “heavy commercial,” but outdoor recreation facilities are an allowed Conditional Use in the zone.
23
24   The Planning Commission requested that the Text Amendment include language limiting gravel
25   parking lots to outdoor recreation facilities.
26
27   Commissioner Swanson moved to TABLE the Proposed Land Use Ordinance Text Amendment
28   to Section 11.120.060 to Allow Gravel Parking Lots for Conditional Uses pending inclusion of
29   surface standards and additional specifications outlined in the Staff Findings of the Staff Report
30   dated February 19, 2025, to the March 5, 2025 Planning Commission Meeting. The motion was



                                                       7
                              DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                              BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, February 19, 2025

1    seconded by Commissioner Flynn. Vote on motion: Ulises Flynn-Yes, Erik Swanson -Yes,
2    Chair Cragun-Yes. The motion passed unanimously.
 3
 4   Staff agreed to work with the applicant regarding additional standards and specifications.
 5
 6   DISCUSSION ITEMS
 7
 8   6.       Planning Commission Business.
 9
10   Planning Manager, Caitlyn Tubbs, reported on the following:
11
12        •   Construction of the Smith’s Grocery is ongoing.
13        •   Oil Changers and Carne Asada Grill are open.
14        •   The Parks building is progressing. She will coordinate with Parks Director, Shane Paddock,
15            to arrange a tour for the Planning Commission.
16        •   A Site Plan for a multitenant space in The Ranch is in the review process.
17        •   McDonald’s will be closing on their property the following week and expects to begin
18            construction shortly thereafter.
19        •   They have no information on new tenants for The Centrum.
20
21   Commissioner Flynn reported that they have begun trenching for fiber in his neighborhood.
22   Commissioner Swanson stated that they have not started in his neighborhood but they have marked
23   his lawn.
24
25   7.       Adjournment.
26
27   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.
28
29
30
31   __________________________________
32   Kjersti Jarman, Community Development Coordinator
33
34   Approved: _________________________




                                                        8
                        2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                    Community Development Department
                                              Planning Division


                                              STAFF REPORT
                                              March 19, 2025

To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Caitlyn Tubbs, Planning Manager

Re:    Proposed Text Amendment to Allow Gravel Parking Lots for Conditional Uses

       Application No.: 2024-51
       Applicant(s):    Strangling Brothers LLC, represented by Scott Knight
       Request:         To review the proposed amendments to Bluffdale City Code to allow gravel
                        parking areas for conditional use permit holders.

SUMMARY

The Applicant proposes establishing a seasonal haunted circus at approximately 690 and 734 West
14600 South. These parcels are located within the Heavy Commercial (HC) Zone where Outdoor
Recreation and Entertainment is allowed as a conditional use 1. The Applicant is not proposing the
construction of any permanent structures, utilities, or parking areas as part of this development.
Pursuant to BCC 11.120.060(A), “[a]ll parking lots and parking structures shall be hard surfaced with
asphalt or concrete.” The Applicant proposes amendments to the Bluffdale City Code to allow
conditional use permit holders to install gravel parking areas instead of hard surfaces.

ANALYSIS

The Applicant’s proposal to establish a seasonal haunted circus with a gravel parking lot requires
three applications under Bluffdale’s existing code: a Text Amendment, Conditional Use Permit, and
Site Plan. The Applicant is proceeding with the Text Amendment application first since their ability
to install a gravel parking lot is pivotal to the feasibility of the proposed haunted circus.

In accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-507, conditional uses shall be approved if reasonable
conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards. While a conditional use permit
is not currently under consideration, it is important to recognize that conditional uses are limited in


1 BCC 11.350 Land Use Tables
                                                              Application 2024-51 – Gravel Parking Lot Text Amendment
                                                                          March 19, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                                Page 1
Bluffdale’s Land Use Tables since they tend to be more intensive uses with a wider variety of effects
on the surrounding community.

Following a public hearing on February 19, 2025 2, the Planning Commission directed staff to return
with this proposal with formatting changes and potential conditional use permit considerations.
Staff has worked with the Applicant to update the proposed language to apply only to outdoor
recreation and entertainment uses as well as to include considerations and requirements for gravel
lots.

NOTICE AND PUBLIC INPUT

A notice of this public hearing was provided as follows:
   - Published on the Utah Public Notice Website on March 5, 2025
   - Posted on the City’s website on March 5, 2025
   - Posted at City Hall on March 5, 2025

The City did not receive any public input regarding this item prior to publishing this report.

MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT:

Model Motion – “I move to forward a __________ recommendation to the City Council for the
proposed amendment of Section 11.120.060 of the Bluffdale City Code, based on the following
findings:”
       1.   List all findings…

EXHIBITS
A: Proposed Amendments




2 Staff Report (pg. 19)
                                                          Application 2024-51 – Gravel Parking Lot Text Amendment
                                                                      March 19, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                            Page 2
11.120.060 Design And Construction Standards

All parking lots or structures shall satisfy the following minimum standards for design of
parking stalls and construction standards:

    1. Surfacing: All parking lots and parking structures shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or
       concrete. The materials shall meet adopted City standards and be capable of handling
       the anticipated size and weight of vehicles, including public safety vehicles.

    2. Gravel parking lots may be permitted in place of paved parking surfaces for Recreation
       and Entertainment (Outdoor) projects that require a conditional use permit, subject to
       the standards in Chapter 11.200.040(B(2)(l).

           A. The proposed gravel parking lot must meet all city safety and drainage
              standards, and be comprised of the following:

                  1. Base Preparation: A compacted base layer capable of supporting a fire
                     apparatus, based upon a recommendation prepared by a licensed
                     geotechnical engineer and accepted by the city engineer, shall be placed
                     once the site has been graded according to the approved grading and
                     drainage plan; and

                  2. Gravel shall be angular one-inch gradation (1”) and shall be installed at
                     a minimum depth of four inches (4”).

    3. Curb Or Border: Each parking lot shall be surrounded by a concrete curb, or other
       border which meets adopted City standards, to ensure the life of the surface and to
       limit the access to approved ingress and egress.

…

11.200.40 Approval Standards
   A. Approval: The Planning Commission has the authority to approve or approve with
      conditions, based on standards, all conditional use applications. Denial of an
      application shall only be considered if there are no conditions that can be imposed to
      mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental eﬀects of the use. All conditional uses
      are presumed to be compatible in the zone and compatible with the intent of the
      General Plan.

    B. Standards: All conditional use permits run with the land and may require the applicant
       to record documents to that eﬀect. The Planning Commission may impose site plan
       modifications and conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
eﬀects of a conditional use and may require additional information from the applicant,
staﬀ, or qualified experts to evaluate the proposed use. All conditional uses shall meet
the following standards:

   1. The proposed conditional use shall comply with City ordinances, Federal, and
      State law, as applicable to the use and to the site where the conditional use will
      be located, and;

   2. Mitigation is required of reasonably anticipated detrimental eﬀects arising from
      the conditional use, including:

           a. Detrimental eﬀects of decreased street service levels and/or traﬀic
              patterns including the need for street modifications such as dedicated
              turn lanes, traﬀic control devices, safety, street widening, curb, gutter
              and sidewalks, location of ingress/egress, lot surfacing and design of oﬀ-
              street parking and circulation, loading docks, as well as compliance
              with oﬀ-street parking standards, including other reasonable mitigation.

           b. Detrimental eﬀects on the adequacy of utility systems, snow removal,
              service delivery, and capacities, including the need for such items as
              relocating, upgrading, providing additional capacity, or preserving
              existing systems, including other reasonable mitigation.

           c. Detrimental eﬀects on connectivity and safety for pedestrians and
              bicyclists.

           d. Detrimental eﬀects by the use due to its nature, including noise that
              exceeds sound levels normally found in residential areas, odors beyond
              what is normally considered acceptable, within a neighborhood
              including such eﬀects as environmental impacts, dust, fumes, smoke,
              odor, noise, vibrations; chemicals, toxins, pathogens, gases, heat, light,
              electromagnetic disturbances, and radiation. Detrimental eﬀects by the
              use may include hours of operation and the potential to create an
              attractive nuisance.

           e. Detrimental eﬀects that increase the risk of contamination of or damage
              to adjacent properties and injury or sickness to people arising from, but
              not limited to, waste disposal, fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope
              conditions, liquefaction, potential, site grading/topography, storm
              drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental health
              hazards, or wetlands.
f. Detrimental eﬀects of modifications to exterior lighting that conflict
   with abutting and nearby properties.

g. Detrimental eﬀects arising from site or building design in terms of use,
   scale, intensity, height, mass, setbacks, character, construction, solar
   access, landscaping, fencing, screening, and architectural design and
   exterior detailing/finishes and colors within the area, defined as the
   properties within one thousand feet (1,000') of the subject property, in
   which the conditional use will be located.

h. Detrimental eﬀects on public safety, emergency fire service and
   emergency vehicle access.

i.   Detrimental eﬀects on usable/functional/accessible open space.

j.   Inadequate maintenance of the property and structures in perpetuity
     including performance measures, compliance reviews, and monitoring.

k. Detrimental eﬀects on appearance from graﬀiti.

l. For proposals including gravel parking lots and/or accesses:

        1. Detrimental eﬀects on transportation corridors, wetlands,
           utilities, or stormwater and drainage features stemming from
           gravel trackout;
