                                         BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                                  MEETING AGENDA
                                               Wednesday, July 15, 2020


Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Planning Commission will hold a public meeting on
Wednesday, July 15, 2020, at 6:30 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible at Bluffdale City Hall located at
2222 West 14400 South. There are additional ways to participate in this meeting:
     1. Please check the City website bluffdale.com for the most up-to-date details to view the meeting.
     2. Email your comments to: planningmeetingcomment@bluffdale.com for all public hearing items.
        Please put the Agenda item number in the subject line.
     3. Mail your written comments to: Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner, City of Bluffdale Planning 2222
        West 14400 South Bluffdale, Utah 84065.
All comments can be read aloud if you indicate to do so. All comments received will be forwarded to
Planning Commission and will be included in the public record.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING 6:30 PM

     1. Roll Call.
     2. Public Forum – To bring items not already on the agenda before the Planning Commission.
     3. Approval of minutes from the June 17, 2020, Planning Commission meeting.

Legislative Items

     4. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a City Initiated Text Amendment
        Application to amend Titles 11-2 and 11-22 of the Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinances, revising the
        City’s Sign Code, along with associated definitions and related administrative provisions, City of
        Bluffdale, Applicant. (Application 2020-12) – Staff Presenter, Grant Crowell.

Discussion Items

     1. City Council Reports.
     2. Planning Commission Business (planning session for upcoming items, follow up, etc.).
     3. Adjournment.


Dated: July 10, 2020




                                                                Grant Crowell, AICP
                                                                City Planner/Economic Development Director




In compliance with the American Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this meeting should contact
Bluffdale City at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at (801)254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
                              DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                              BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   Present:
 2
 3   Members:        Debbie Cragun, Chair
 4                   Johnny Loumis, Jr.
 5                   Stephen Walston
 6                   Holly Brown
 7                   Ulises Flynn
 8
 9   Excused:        Kory Luker
10
11   Staff:          Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director
12                   Jennifer Robison, Senior City Planner
13                   Ellen Oakman, Associate City Planner
14                   Pam von Petersdorff, Community Development Assistant
15                   Tiffini Shinsel, Development Coordinator
16                   Todd Sheeran, City Attorney
17                   Natalie Hall, Emergency Program Manager (Production Team)
18
19   Others:         Brian Everill
20                   Brett Everill
21                   Rob Everill
22                   Dana Howland
23                   Mike Stangl
24                   Kevin Paxton
25
26   Chair Debbie Cragun called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.
27
28   The meeting was held at City Hall and made available electronically. Public comments were
29   accepted via email. Comments were read and made part of the public record.
30
31   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING
32
33   1.       Roll Call.
34
35   All Planning Commission Members were present with the exception of Kory Luker.
36
37   2.       Public Forum.
38
39   There were no public comments from those in attendance or through email.
40




                                                     1
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   3.     Approval of Minutes from the May 20, 2020, Meeting of the Planning Commission
 2
 3   Debbie Cragun moved to approve the minutes from the May 20, 2020, Planning Commission
 4   Meeting. Stephen Walston seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Johnny Loumis, Jr.-Aye;
 5   Stephen Walston-Aye; Holly Brown-Aye; Ulises Flynn-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion
 6   passed unanimously.
 7
 8   Administrative Items
 9
10   4.     PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION, AND VOTE on a Preliminary and Final
11          Plat Application for Bringhurst Station Industrial Park for 9 Lots in the SD-X
12          Bringhurst Station Project Zone at Approximately 16361 South Camp Williams Road,
13          STASTA, LLC, Applicant (Application 2020-30). Staff Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
14
15   Senior City Planner, Jennifer Robison, presented the staff report and provided an overview of the
16   Bringhurst Station development in the SD-X zone. The area is starting to develop with the subject
17   property being in a commercial area that has been incorporated into the Project Plan. There are
18   approximately 23 acres in two different locations of the project area that were set aside for
19   commercial development. Area A is for retail sites and other for commercial flex types of uses.
20   Area B is intended for warehousing types of commercial use.
21
22   Mrs. Robison next reviewed the layout of the proposed nine-lot plat. She identified the location of
23   the Rocky Mountain Power Corridor, which runs across the center of the subject property. The lots
24   meet the setback requirements for the right-of-way. Mrs. Robison reported that the plat meets all
25   the City Code requirements for subdivisions. She emphasized that the plat is the item under
26   consideration and not the site plan. She displayed a rendering of what the buildings will look like
27   on the subject property, pending all approvals. The plat encompasses all lots, but the project will be
28   phased in on the subject property, starting with Buildings A, C, and F.
29
30   The applicant, Kevin Paxton, gave his address as 6914 South 3000 East in Cottonwood Heights and
31   identified himself as a representative of the Staker Company. Co-applicant, Mike Stangl gave his
32   address as 90 East 7200 South in Midvale.
33


                                                       2
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   In response to Commissioner Walston’s question regarding the types of commercial entities
 2   anticipated for the subject area, Mr. Stangl stated that it will mainly consist of flooring companies
 3   and other contractor services for homes being built in the area. The rear buildings will be for flex
 4   light industrial businesses.
 5
 6   Chair Cragun opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
 7   closed.
 8
 9   Stephen Walston moved to approve the Bringhurst Station Industrial Park Preliminary and
10   Final Subdivision Plat Applications Application 2020-30 subject to the following:
11
12   Conditions:
13
14             1.   That all requirements of the City Codes, adopted ordinances, and Bringhurst
15                  Station Project Plan are met and adhered to for the applications.
16
17             2.   That the preliminary and final plat comply with the Bluffdale City Engineering
18                  Standards and Specifications and recommendations by the City Engineer and
19                  Public Works Department for all relevant construction and plat drawings.
20
21             3.   That all construction drawings be approved and stamped by the City Engineer
22                  prior to any construction of improvements.
23
24             4.   That the applicants provide approved flood control permits from Salt Lake
25                  County Flood Control and license agreements from the applicable canal
26                  companies for all stormwater outfalls, all canal crossings, and all modifications
27                  of off-site drainage throughout the project prior to the recordation of the plat.
28
29             5.   That prior to a building permit being issued, the proof of sewer service from
30                  South Valley Sewer District be provided to the City.
31
32             6.   That prior to a building permit being issued, the acceptance of mailbox location
33                  from United States Postal Service be provided to the City.

                                                      3
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1
 2          7.      That the applicants are subject to Site Plan approval by the City Staff prior to
 3                  the building permits being issued.
 4
 5          8.      That the applicants provide the secondary water shares for each lot prior to the
 6                  recordation of the plat.
 7
 8   Holly Brown seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Stephen Walston-Aye; Holly Brown-Aye;
 9   Johnny Loumis, Jr.-Aye; Ulises Flynn-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye.                   The motion passed
10   unanimously.
11
12   5.     CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Plat Amendment Application for Rockwell
13          Ridge Business Park to Create Lot 1B Located at Approximately 14725 South Porter
14          Rockwell Boulevard. Master Muffler Shops, Inc., Applicant (Application 2020-27).
15          Staff Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
16
17   Mrs. Robison reported that some commercial buildings have already been built on Lot 1 of the
18   Rockwell Ridge Business Park. The applicants are requesting to build on Lot 1, as well. The site
19   plan has been approved for a building at the proposed location.          The applicants are seeking
20   ownership of the lot for Master Muffler’s Corporate Office. Lot 1 was originally 12.62 acres in size
21   and will be reduced to 11.53 acres. Lot 1B will consist of 1.09 acres for the office building. The
22   proposed building will be the same size as the building that was originally approved in that location.
23   The applicants will conform to the approved site plan. Their only desire is to gain ownership of the
24   property for their office. Mrs. Robison reviewed the site plan for Lot 1 and identified the proposed
25   office location.
26
27   In response to Commissioner Flynn’s question regarding the number of people that will work in the
28   office and the corresponding parking needs, Mrs. Robison stated that shared parking on Lot 1 was
29   always anticipated as part of the approved site plan.
30
31   The applicants, Brian and Robert Everill were present. In response to Commissioner Flynn’s
32   questions regarding the number of employees and the parking arrangements at the office, Brian
33   Everill stated that currently they are working out of a garage and there are currently eight


                                                       4
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   employees. That number would most likely max out at 12 to 15 employees. The approved building
 2   size is 10,600 square feet.
 3
 4   There was discussion of the details of the site plan. City Planner/Economic Development Director,
 5   Grant Crowell, noted that the main issue was the applicants’ request to affect an ownership change
 6   on the subject property. The current owners of the property participated in the application process
 7   and are ostensibly amenable to the ownership change.
 8
 9   In response to Commissioner Brown’s question regarding the number of Master Muffler shops the
10   owners currently have, Brian Everill reported that they currently have 16 stores and 4 units of other
11   brands. They have been opening one to two locations per year. They love Bluffdale and want to
12   move their corporate office to the City.
13
14   Commissioner Brown expressed delight with the prospect of having Master Muffler in Bluffdale.
15
16   Ulises Flynn moved to approve the Rockwell Ridge Business Park Lot 1 Amended Plat
17   Application 2020-27, subject to the following:
18
19   Conditions:
20
21          1.      That all requirements of the City Codes, adopted ordinances, Rockwell Ridge
22                  Business Park Agreement, and the Simple Products Site Plan approval are met
23                  and adhered to for the application.
24
25          2.      That the plat amendment complies with the Bluffdale City Engineering
26                  Standards and Specifications and recommendations by the City Engineer and
27                  Public Works Department for all relevant construction and plat drawings.
28
29          3.      That all construction drawings be approved and stamped by the City Engineer
30                  prior to any construction of improvements.
31




                                                      5
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   Johnny Loumis, Jr. seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ulises Flynn-Aye; Johnny Loumis,
2    Jr.-Aye; Holly Brown-Aye; Stephen Walston-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed
3    unanimously.
 4
 5   6.     CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Plat Amendment Application for the Hobby
 6          Caves Condominiums to Amend Units 216 – 226 and Removing Units 301 – 315 from
 7          the Overall Project Located at Approximate 13865 South 2700 West. Howland
 8          Partners, Applicant (Application 2020-26). Staff Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
 9
10   Mrs. Robison identified the location of the Saddleback Pointe project, which consists of flex
11   commercial, retail offices, and hobby caves at the rear of the property. The applicants have
12   acquired additional property for future development in the GC-1 zone. Mrs. Robison presented the
13   current plat and reviewed what the plat amendment will look like, if approved. The applicants
14   would like to reduce the number of units (216-226) within the center building to eight and add more
15   square footage to the existing units. They would also like to change the use of the hobby caves to
16   flex retail office space. The remaining units on the south (301-315) would be removed and the
17   southern lot line adjusted.
18
19   Mrs. Robison reviewed what the proposed plat would look like with the changes. There would still
20   be hobby caves but not as many as originally planned. If the plat amendment is approved, the
21   applicants would be required to present a site plan for approval. The size of the parcel is such that
22   the site plan could be approved at staff level because the proposed changes still meet all of the zone
23   requirements. Mrs. Robison emphasized that the site plan and accompanying elevations are not part
24   of the current approval process; however, she reviewed what the proposed changes would look like.
25   The retail flex space will have a different feel from the hobby caves but the building designs and
26   elevations will be consistent with the hobby caves.
27
28   In response to Chair Cragun’s question regarding the impacts of the proposed changes,
29   Mrs. Robison stated that her understanding was that the hobby caves will be individually owned.
30   The plat would be changed so that there is a new legal description for the subject property.
31
32   Dana Howland gave his address as 9450 South Redwood Road and explained why he and his
33   associates are seeking to make the changes. He noted that Phase 1 of the hobby caves have already
                                                       6
                                DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                                BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                         MEETING MINUTES
                                        Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   been built. Approximately 70% of prospective buyers want to run businesses out of the hobby
 2   caves because they love the size of the units (1,200 to 1,500 square feet). The hobby caves are
 3   gated and cannot be used as a place of business.          Howland Partners consequently looked at
 4   changing the location of the gates. One gate will remain in the same location; however, the other
 5   would be moved so that the hobby caves can continue to be gated and the proposed changes could
 6   take place. They found that the ideal size for marketing purposes was 1,500 to 1,800 square feet.
 7   As a result, they wanted to reduce the number of flex office units from 11 to 8, for an average size
 8   of 1,700 square feet. The new units will look identical to the hobby caves. The only difference will
 9   be that the garage doors will be smaller than those in the hobby caves and there would be more
10   glass.
11
12   Regarding the impact of the proposed change on the City, it was noted that there would be eight
13   units from which businesses could be run. There will be a one-acre parcel that will have a 9,600
14   square-foot building for a boat sales and repair business that will generate significant tax revenue.
15   Mr. Howland noted that three of the eight units already have interested buyers. Once the plat is
16   recorded, they will be able to put the units under contract. The retail flex offices that are part of the
17   project have either been sold or are under contract. There will also be a mortuary in the retail
18   section of the project. About one-half of the hobby caves had already been sold. COVID-19 has
19   had a negative impact on sales of the hobby caves because of economic uncertainty. Otherwise, the
20   units were selling well.
21
22   In response to a question raised, Mr. Howland stated that there will be no negative impact on the 55
23   and older project. He noted that the marine business is .94-acre in size and will be fenced. The
24   access was identified.
25
26   Commissioner Walston noted that the main complaint they typically receive is with lighting.
27   Mr. Howland stated that it is difficult to satisfy everyone in terms of lighting. There are no pole
28   lights and they are attached to walls and are downlit. He reassured the Planning Commission that
29   the lighting meets all City requirements.
30


                                                        7
                               DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                               BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                       Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   In response to Commissioner Flynn’s question regarding the types of businesses that will use the
 2   eight units, Mr. Howland stated that they vary from a recording studio to an Internet-based business
 3   that ships products from their warehouse. Mr. Howland stated that the parking plan will be adjusted
 4   to meet the needs of the businesses. Mrs. Robison added that parking will be addressed as part of
 5   the site plan approval.
 6
 7   Ulises Flynn moved to approve the Hobby Caves Condominiums Amendment No.1 Amended
 8   Plat Application 2020-26 subject to the following:
 9
10   Conditions:
11
12          1.      That all requirements of the City Codes, adopted ordinances are met and
13                  adhered to for the application.
14
15          2.      That the amended plat complies with the Bluffdale City Engineering Standards
16                  and Specifications and recommendations by the City Engineer and Public
17                  Works Department for all relevant construction and plat drawings.
18
19          3.      That all construction drawings be approved and stamped by the City Engineer
20                  prior to any construction of improvements.
21
22          4.      That the applicants provide revised storm drainage plans and secondary water
23                  plans to the City Engineer for approval prior to the recordation of the plat.
24
25          5.      That the applicants are subject to Site Plan approval by the City Staff prior to
26                  the building permits being issued for the amended plat.
27
28   Stephen Walston seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ulises Flynn-Aye; Stephen Walston-
29   Aye; Holly Brown-Aye; Johnny Loumis, Jr.-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed
30   unanimously.
31




                                                      8
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

1    Legislative Items
2
3    7.        PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION, AND RECOMMENDATION on a City
4              Initiated Text Amendment Application to Amend Title 11-8A-10 and 11-8D-10
5              Regarding the Distance Between any Accessory Building and any Dwelling from
6              Twenty Feet (20’) to Ten Feet (10’) in the R-1-43 and R-1-87 Zones. (Application 2020-
7              28). Staff Presenter, Ellen Oakman.
8
9    Associate City Planner, Ellen Oakman, presented the staff report and reviewed the current verbiage
10   in the City Code and the proposed text amendments. The proposal is to change the minimum
11   distance between a residence and an accessory building from 20 feet to 10 feet in the R-1-43 and R-
12   1-87 zones. She noted that the 10-foot minimum already exists in the R-1-10 zone. The Building
13   Code is also at 10 feet. The current standard is old and the City Council feels it needs to be revised
14   to enhance the rights of property owners. Ms. Oakman next reviewed the City Zoning Map to show
15   where the impacted zones are located.
16
17   In response to Commissioner Walston’s question regarding any potential advantage to the 20-foot
18   minimum, Ms. Oakman stated that in other cities the distance is even less than six feet. She
19   considered the current requirement of 20 feet to be excessive. Mr. Crowell interjected that the
20   previous thinking was likely that the larger the property in the zone, the bigger the distance between
21   homes and accessory buildings. Regulations have evolved over the years in terms of setbacks,
22   coverage, and other requirements as trends have changed. There are safety concerns when the space
23   is less than 10 feet, but a 10-foot gap is adequate for mitigating safety hazards. Requirements vary
24   greatly from city to city. Ms. Oakman stated that the proposed text amendments will have no
25   bearing on setbacks from the property line and the distance between a home and an accessory
26   building.
27
28   Chair Cragun opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
29   closed.
30
31   Johnny Loumis, Jr. moved to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for Text
32   Amendment Application 2020-28 based on the findings presented in the staff report dated
33   June 2, 2020. Holly Brown seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Johnny Loumis, Jr.-Aye;


                                                       9
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, June 17, 2020

1    Holly Brown-Aye; Ulises Flynn-Aye; Stephen Walston-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion
2    passed unanimously.
 3
 4   8.     PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION, AND RECOMMENDATION on a City
 5          Initiated Text Amendment Application to Amend Title 11-2, 11-16, and 11-35 to
 6          Amend the Chicken and Small Animal Requirements in the R-1-43 and R-1-10 Zones,
 7          Amending Existing Animal Code, and Creating a New Section, ‘Keeping of Animals.’
 8          (Application 2020-29). Staff Presenter, Ellen Oakman.
 9
10   Ms. Oakman reported that the R-1-10 zone currently has no permitted animal rights attached to it.
11   The City Code also lacks regulations regarding small animals. The text amendments seek to add
12   animal rights to the R-1-10 zone. In addition, the language for the R-1-43 zone has been revised to
13   be more consistent with R-1-10 zone. Currently, the R-1-43 zone allows 50 chickens, pheasants,
14   and similar foul per one-half acre. The proposal would change that number to 25 per 10,000 square
15   feet for both zones. The rationale for the change is that the minimum lot size for the R-1-10 zone is
16   10,000 square feet. Ms. Oakman noted that the R-1-43 zone also includes CRO and PRD zones.
17   Animal rights would, therefore, be extended to the residents in the CRO and PRD zones.
18
19   Ms. Oakman reported that in addition to adding chicken rights, other small animals have been added
20   to the text amendments; namely, pygmy/miniature goats, rabbits, and bees. Those proposals were
21   based on what currently exists in surrounding cities and to enhance the animal rights for Bluffdale
22   residents.
23
24   Ms. Oakman next reviewed the City Zoning Map to identify the impacted zones with the proposed
25   text amendments. Mr. Crowell stated that the intent was to capture the 10,000 square-foot and
26   larger lots throughout Bluffdale. There has been a flurry of interest by many residents to have
27   animal rights on their property, including bees, rabbits, chickens, and pygmy goats.
28
29   Commissioner Walston was very supportive of animal rights; however, he did have concerns. He
30   opined that the standards do not need to be proportional.         He lives on a one-acre lot, and
31   proportionally speaking, he would technically be allowed to have an exorbitant number of different
32   animals, which would upset his neighbors. In addition, he did not believe roosters should be
33   allowed even on one-acre lots. Mr. Crowell acknowledged Commissioner Walston’s concerns.

                                                      10
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   Some of the elected officials indicated that “roosters are farming, and farming can take place on an
 2   acre.” Mr. Crowell agreed that he would not want to be awakened by a rooster, or a noisy dog,
 3   early in the morning. He noted that the requests are being made to “not be restrictive of ‘the
 4   Bluffdale Way,’” which is in the City logo.            He explained that the Planning Commission
 5   recommendations can easily be incorporated into what is presented to the City Council. The
 6   County thinks that 50 chickens is a good number for an acre; however, the City has stated that 100
 7   chickens per acre is satisfactory. The goal is not to take away existing animal rights, but rather to
 8   add animal rights to the property owners.
 9
10   Commissioner Walston suggested that some of the current situations could be grandfathered in.
11   Someone who has 100 chickens has a commercial production taking place.
12
13   Chair Cragun reiterated Commissioner Walston’s point that if people took full advantage of the
14   rights being granted, the number and types of animals on a single acre could be unduly excessive.
15   Mr. Crowell explained that the City does not have an animal budget in the current City Code. A
16   formula could potentially be created to determine what the allowed proportions of animals would be
17   on a piece of property. Mr. Crowell stated that such a formula would also need to include dogs and
18   cats.   Commissioner Flynn commented that at some point, too many animals can become a
19   nuisance, despite property rights.      He pointed out that lot sizes vary considerably in his
20   neighborhood, so the animal rights will as well. His lot is 11,000 square feet in size and in his
21   opinion, 25 chickens would too many. He thought it was nice to have a clear standard but it should
22   be scaled according to the lot size because there is so much variety in terms of lot size.
23
24   Commissioner Walston opined that the numbers should be reduced substantially since most people
25   will have 10 or fewer chickens. In the case of greater numbers, there would be a commercial
26   component attached to the regulations.        Mr. Crowell explained that there are complications
27   associated with changing the current standards, especially in the R-1-43 and A-5 zones.
28   Mr. Crowell urged the Planning Commission to make suggestions that could be submitted to the
29   City Council. He added that the City Council indicated that 10,000 square-foot would be a good
30   starting point. If the standards included 5,000 square-foot lots there would be more places included
31   in the regulations.
                                                       11
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1
 2   Chair Cragun stated that the issue has been requested by the City Council because numerous
 3   citizens want to have animal rights on their property. She did not feel the standards need to be
 4   reduced in the R-1-43 zone and stated that the R-1-10 zone would represent the addition of rights.
 5   Some people bought homes in areas where animals were not allowed, specifically the R-1-10 zone,
 6   so they would not want to see that restriction lifted.
 7
 8   Mr. Crowell explained that text amendments are not specifically included in public notices. Chair
 9   Cragun opined that if more people were aware of the details of what is being proposed, there would
10   be more public response to the proposed text amendments. Mr. Crowell explained that the issue
11   could be published widely to the Bluffdale citizens, if necessary. He noted that there many different
12   approaches are being taken by cities throughout Salt Lake County.
13
14   Commissioner Loumis had many concerns with both sides of the issue. When he had cattle, he lost
15   cattle to trespassers who shot them. He had concerns about going to smaller lots. For example,
16   bees could pose a safety hazard in areas where toddlers are playing outside. Roosters tend to crow
17   before daylight. Bluffdale is at a crossroads with this issue. He felt that the people who do not
18   want to add animal rights will likely not speak up. Only those who want rights will make their
19   voices heard.
20
21   Commissioner Walston felt that the proposed numbers should be reduced for the R-1-10 zone,
22   especially with regard to chickens. He felt that 10 to 15 chickens would be plenty. Commissioner
23   Flynn expressed agreed. Commissioner Walston felt that a formula should be developed to specify
24   the aggregate number of animals that would be allowed. Mr. Crowell stated that the County’s
25   suggestion from October of 2019 was 10 to 15 chickens depending on the property.
26
27   Chair Cragun reiterated her concern with adding animal rights to a zone that currently does not have
28   them without receiving significant input from residents. She felt their voices need to be heard
29   before any decisions are made. Ms. Oakman clarified that the proposal came about because
30   residents in the R-1-10 zone do not have animal rights. The text amendments seek to rectify that
31   oversight. The animals enumerated in the text amendments were those mentioned in meetings with


                                                        12
                              DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                              BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   the City Council. Chair Cragun emphasized that residents in the R-1-10 zone have the right to be
 2   apprised of what is being considered so that they are aware and have the opportunity to respond.
 3   Mr. Crowell explained that there are areas zoned R-1-10 where people have chickens even though
 4   they technically should not, but nothing is being done to penalize them.
 5
 6   There was discussion on the need to have a guideline that would be reasonable for all residents.
 7   Animal ownership is a privilege but comes with responsibilities. Mr. Crowell noted that there are
 8   advantages to having animal permits to help with the Code enforcement; however, residents will
 9   likely find that idea offensive.    In addition, those who are currently out of compliance are
10   committing a criminal violation. Mr. Crowell stated emphatically that the City will not implement
11   permitting as its enforcement option. Animal enforcement will become a zoning issue, which is
12   very complicated because of limited personnel. It would be a County or Health Department issue.
13
14   Discussion ensued on how to inform residents so that they have an opportunity to provide input. In
15   addition, the numbers need to be reduced and a formula established for the aggregate number of
16   permitted animals. Bluffdale has a culture that fosters agriculture and animals so that somehow
17   needs to be preserved. The consensus was to set the threshold for chickens at 10 to 15 on 10,000
18   square-foot lots. This would apply to Parry Farms and Spring View Farms. Those who currently
19   live in an R-1-10 zone need to be well informed of what is being considered by the City.
20   Mr. Crowell acknowledged for future reference that any time a text amendment is proposed for a
21   particular zone, the occupants of that zone need to be noticed. The number of rabbits was suggested
22   to be at five or six. The allowance for bees should be kept to a minimum due to safety concerns
23   previously identified.
24
25   Mr. Crowell observed that HOAs and CC&Rs will also have regulations in place pertaining to
26   animal rights. In response to Chair Cragun’s question regarding how more community input might
27   be solicited, Emergency Program Manager, Natalie Hall, suggested using the Calling Tree. It could
28   also be put on the LED sign, the City’s website, on social media, and in the newsletter. If at that
29   point people are not getting the message they are simply are not interested. In addition, a simple
30   survey could be created and provided to the public.
31
                                                      13
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   Commissioner Loumis suggested that the survey include a limitation on the types of animals that
 2   will be allowed. There was discussion about how the survey might be crafted. Mr. Crowell stated
 3   that it will take time to develop and vet the survey before it goes out to the public. It would apply to
 4   smaller lots, such as the R-1-10 and one-third acre lots but not to R-1-43 lots. Mrs. Robison noted
 5   that a great deal of interest has been voiced by residents of Independence, which is currently zoned
 6   Mixed-Use. Ms. Hall noted that there are HOA policies regulating animal rights. She added that
 7   Mayor Timothy wants to see the desires of the residents of Independence addressed. Chair Cragun
 8   suggested that the survey not be rushed.
 9
10   Chair Cragun opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The public hearing was
11   closed.
12
13   Debbie Cragun moved to table the item to look at reducing the numbers of animals,
14   accumulation of animals, and gather more ideas for additional public input. Ulises Flynn
15   seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ulises Flynn-Aye; Johnny Loumis, Jr.-Aye; Stephen
16   Walston-Aye; Holly Brown-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
17
18   Discussion Items
19
20   9.        City Council Reports.
21
22   With regard to the recommendation on the crematorium, the Planning Commission forwarded to the
23   City Council, Mr. Crowell stated that there was some confusion so the matter was on the next City
24   Council agenda for reconsideration. The concern was with the potential for a cremation only
25   business. There was also wordsmithing taking place and two competing motions. After visiting
26   with the City Attorney and staff, the City Council had a better understanding of what proposed. The
27   proposal was to remove “but not for” cremation and insert “and” cremation.
28
29   Mr. Crowell summarized some of the discussion that took place among the Economic Development
30   Committee. The City Council liked the draft and asked staff to provide direction to move forward,
31   particularly with regard to providing a “reality check.” The Mayor appreciated the work done by



                                                       14
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, June 17, 2020

 1   the subcommittee. Chair Cragun appreciated the opportunity to serve on the subcommittee because
 2   it gave her a clearer understanding of the City Council’s vision.
 3
 4   Mr. Crowell reported that Dr. Babcock, a dentist, is moving into a new building. He will have
 5   additional space in his building for other professionals. Mr. Crowell stated that the COVID-19
 6   pandemic has had a unique impact on economic development because it has affected some sectors
 7   more than others. He noted that there has been a deluge of requests for home building permits.
 8
 9   Mr. Crowell stated that there has been a lot of activity on 2700 West. The sector of the economy
10   that is the most robust is commercial flex space.
11
12   Mr. Crowell reported that the City Council approved the budget and a match is needed for the
13   General Plan Revision Project. He hoped to see a robust public process as part of the revision of the
14   General Plan. The funding should be adequate to allow for a good product and it will take about
15   one year to complete. State Code requires that the Planning Commission have a lot of input from
16   elected officials in the development of a General Plan.
17
18   In response to the question raised regarding the status of the hotel, Mr. Crowell reported that the
19   plans are still being developed. A preferred contractor has been selected and engineering work was
20   underway.
21
22   In response to Chair Cragun’s question regarding the coffee shop and Pizza Hut, Mr. Crowell stated
23   that a sign permit application has been submitted for the coffee shop. There is still is no confirmed
24   pizza restaurant application. Mrs. Robison reported that Golden West Credit Union is slated to
25   locate on the Woodbury property at Bangerter Highway and Redwood Road. Efforts were ongoing
26   for a supermarket.
27
28   10.    Planning Commission Business (Planning Session for Upcoming Items, Follow Up,
29          Etc.).
30
31   In response to Commissioner Flynn’s question regarding the number of times the Planning
32   Commission has failed to have a quorum for a meeting, Commissioner Loumis stated that it has
33   happened only twice during his tenure on the Planning Commission over the past 20 years.
                                                         15
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, June 17, 2020

1    Mr. Crowell stated that if there will not be a quorum, staff would appreciate being notified so that
2    the meeting can be canceled, if necessary.
3
4    Commissioner Walston, who works in the healthcare profession, thanked staff and the Planning
5    Commission Members for wearing masks to this meeting.
 6
 7   11.    Adjournment.
 8
 9   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 8:21 p.m.
10
11
12   __________________________________
13   Pam von Petersdorff, Community Development Assistant
14
15   Approved: _________________________




                                                     16
                                       2222 West 14400 South
                                         Bluffdale, UT 84065
                            801.254.2200(o) 801.446.8642(f) TTY 7-1-1

                                           STAFF REPORT
                                            July 10, 2020

       To:                  City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
       Prepared By:         Grant Crowell

       Re:                  City Initiated Text Amendments to the City’s Sign Code, 11-22, 11-2,
       and related administrative provisions

       Application No.:     2020-12
       Applicant:           City of Bluffdale
       Request:             That the Planning Commission review the text amendment application
                            and make a formal recommendation to the Bluffdale City Council.

SUMMARY

Commercial zoning and development activity is increasing throughout Bluffdale in several key
locations. Many locations of development are within entries and gateways to the community. In
reviewing updates to the City’s Land Use Ordinance in the last couple of years, the sign code was
not modified or updated. Because of the outdated sign code which may allow signs which do not
conform to the City’s desired objectives for aesthetics, fairness, and economic development, a
temporary land use ordinance (2020-06) was adopted by the City Council on March 11, 2020, which
restricted new commercial sign applications (except for a few vested zoning areas) for up to six
months while new ordinance provisions were researched and proposed as amendments to the
City’s Land Use Ordinance. The City’s sign code is an incomplete ordinance as well and in the re-
draft it was determined by Staff to repeal and replace the sign code with a new baseline ordinance
to work from.

One of the main reasons for the adoption of the temporary ordinance is that the current ordinance
allows 25’ pole signs as the basic commercial standard and allows them to be placed 100’ apart in
any commercial zone without any architectural standards. Many communities utilize monument
signs as the basic sign allowance for freestanding signs, rather than poles, which can make a
streetscape more architecturally pleasing. When pole or tower signs are allowed for larger
developments, multi-building developments, along freeway corridors, or as an incentive, the City
can require more architectural detail to make them compatible with the City’s objectives on what
the built environment of the community should look like. These basic changes - among many
                                                             Application 2020-12: City Initiated Sign Code
                                                  Amendments, July 15, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 1
others - have been proposed in the draft code.

Another extremely important component of a sign ordinance is that it is content neutral, which is an
important constitutional consideration. Cities can only regulate time, place, and manner, and the
draft code reflects this legal principle. Updating our review and submittal requirements as well as
how the code will be administered were additional considerations in the re-write.

Sign codes are one of the most complicated and potentially controversial and impactful ordinances
that a City can enact. Many policy decisions are made within a sign code; Staff expects a robust
discussion about many topics. Here is a partial list of items worth mentioning that have updated
policies, or which need further determinations to refine (in no specific order or priority):

      The use of modern technologies, like LED electronic message centers (everywhere, or just
       some places, as a percentage of the sign, or the entire copy area)
      Sign setbacks from sidewalks and rights of way
      The use of exposed neon
      Sign height and copy area
      Special accommodations for I-15 and Bangerter Highway Frontage (and other arterials,
       potentially) as a right or with project size
      Thresholds for development size to allow larger signs
      Commercial signage for businesses allowed in agricultural and residential zones
       (commercial stables, veterinary businesses)
      Architectural base requirements for tower signs
      Length of duration for allowed temporary signs
      Holiday displays
      Regulating school signage
      Churches
      Exempting City signage
      Vehicle signs
      Special districts with different requirements
      Aesthetics and cost vs maximum visibility and advertising ability
      Master sign package approval with site plans
      Relationship to the allowances for home occupations
      Fees

ANALYSIS
The initial draft has made recommendations for many of these policy decisions, but Staff welcomes
a robust discussion to make this draft a more complete representation of the City’s desired
outcome as it pertains to commercial signage.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends the Planning Commission review the proposed amendments to Chapters 11-2,
11-22, 11-23, regarding the City’s sign code and if they are found to be of a good cause forward a
positive recommendation to the City Council based on the following findings:

                                                             Application 2020-12: City Initiated Sign Code
                                                  Amendments, July 15, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 2
      1) That the City’s sign code is in need of updating to reflect community goals and
         objectives.
      2) That the City’s sign code is in need of updating to more completely define and protect
         commercial speech.

MODEL MOTIONS:

Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the Text Amendment Application 2020-12 based on the findings presented in the staff
report dated July 10, 2020, (or as modified below):”
       1.      List any findings for approval…

Motion for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a negative recommendation to the
City Council for the Text Amendment Application 2020-12 based on the following findings:”
       1.      List any findings for denial…


ATTACHMENTS

   Exhibit A: Proposed ordinance




                                                           Application 2020-12: City Initiated Sign Code
                                                Amendments, July 15, 2020, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                           Page 3
Exhibit A: City of Bluffdale Sign Code Amendments

11-2-2 GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
…
SIGNS: See Chapter 11-22 for additional definitions pertaining to signs and sign permit
administration.

SIGN: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, devices, designs,
pictures, trade names or trademarks by which anything is made known, such as are used to designate
a firm, association, corporation, profession, business or service, whether placed on the ground, rocks,
trees, stumps or other natural objects, or on a building, wall, roof frame, support, fence or other
manmade structure, which are visible from any public street, public highway or public road right-of-
way. For the purpose of this title, the word sign does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of any
nation, state, city or other political unit, or of a nonprofit organization. Further, it shall not include any
official notice issued by any court, public body or officer, or directional warning or information sign or
structure required or authorized by law.
SIGN, A-FRAME: Any sign or structure composed of two (2) sign faces mounted or attached back to
back in such a manner as to form a triangular vertical cross section through the faces.
SIGN, ABANDONED: Any sign applicable to a use that has been discontinued for a period of one year.
SIGN, ACCESSORY: A sign that directs attention to a business or profession conducted on the
premises.
SIGN, ANIMATED: Any sign that is designed and constructed to give its message through movement or
semblance of movement created through a sequence of progressive changes or parts, lights or degree
of lighting.
SIGN, APPURTENANT: Any sign which advertises products, services or business establishments which
are located, conducted, manufactured or sold upon the same premises upon which the sign is
erected.
SIGN AREA: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the minimum frame and
supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back to back or double faced sign covering the
same subject shall be computed when the signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an
angle of not more than forty five degrees (45°). In relation to signs that do not have a frame or a
separate background, sign area shall be computed on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle or circle
large enough to frame the display.
SIGN, CANOPY: See definition of sign, marquee.
SIGN, ELECTRONIC DISPLAY (EDS): Any non-appurtenant advertising structure, or portion thereof, that
displays electronic images, graphics or pictures, with or without textual information. Such a non-
appurtenant advertising structure has the capability of being changed or altered by electronic means
on a fixed display screen composed of a series of lights, including light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber
optics, plasma displays, light bulbs, or other illumination devices within the display area where the
message is displayed. Electronic display signs include computer programmable, microprocessor
controlled electronic or digital displays.

                                                      1
SIGN, ERECTION OF: To build, construct, place, relocate, enlarge, substantially alter, attach, suspend,
paint, post or display. Normal maintenance, including refinishing, is not included in this definition,
provided the sign copy is not changed or altered.
SIGN, FASCIA: A sign attached to or erected against a wall or building with the face parallel to the
building wall.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: Any sign that is standing on or erected into the ground. Such signs are usually,
but not necessarily, supported from the ground by one or more poles or posts or similar uprights, with
or without braces. Any sign that is mounted into the ground, but has the supports passing through any
portion of the roof of a building or structure, shall be considered to be a roof sign.
SIGN, HEIGHT OF: The height of a sign is the vertical distance measured from the ground plane to the
top of the sign.
SIGN, MARQUEE: Means and includes any roofed structure attached to and supported by a building
and projecting over public property.
SIGN, MOVABLE FREESTANDING: Any sign not affixed to or erected into the ground.
SIGN, NON-APPURTENANT: Any sign which advertises products, services or business establishments
which are not located, conducted, manufactured or sold upon the same premises upon which the sign
is erected.
SIGN, NON-APPURTENANT ADVERTISING STRUCTURE (BILLBOARD): A non-appurtenant sign,
commonly referred to as a billboard, that is mounted or otherwise affixed to a pylon or other support
structure.
SIGN, NONACCESSORY; BILLBOARD: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service
or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than on the premises, and only incidentally on
the premises, if at all.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: Any sign or non-appurtenant advertising structure which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the purview of this chapter, and any
amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions of this
chapter.
SIGN, OFF PREMISES: See definition of sign, non-appurtenant.
SIGN, ON PREMISES: See definition of sign, appurtenant.
SIGN, PROJECTING: Any sign attached to a building or structural wall and extending horizontally
outward from such wall more than eighteen inches (18").
SIGN, ROOF: Any sign which is erected upon or over the roof or over a parapet of any building.
SIGN, WALL: A sign with messages or copy erected parallel to and attached to or painted to the outside
wall of a building and extending not more than eighteen inches (18") from the wall.
…




                                                    2
Chapter 11-22 Signs and Outdoor Advertising
SECTION:
11-22-1: Purpose
11-22-2: Scope
11-22-3: Definitions
11-22-4: Requirement Of Conformity
11-22-5: Approvals, Permits, Applications And Enforcement
11-22-6: General Provisions
11-22-7: Permitted On Premises Permanent Signs
11-22-8: Temporary Signage
11-22-9: Areas Of Special Designation
11-22-10: Signs Not Requiring A Permit
11-22-11: Nonconforming Signs
11-22-12: Prohibited Signs
11-22-13: Severability
11-22-14: Nonappurtenant Advertising Structures (Billboards)


11-22-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect and promote the health, safety and welfare of city residents
and businesses by regulating the design, construction, and installation of signs in a content neutral
manner that does not favor any type of speech over another in order to achieve the following
objectives:
 A. To provide a reasonable system for controlling signs within the community;
 B. To permit signs that are well designed and pleasing in appearance, while allowing latitude for
variety, good design relationships, and spacing between signs and adjacent uses;
 C. To foster a community character that has a minimum of visual clutter;
 D. To enhance the economic strength of the city;
 E. To provide on-site identification for private enterprises;
 F. To provide for public convenience by directing persons to various activities and enterprises;
 G. To encourage signs that are compatible with land uses;
 H. To minimize light pollution, glare, visual obstructions, distraction, and traffic and safety hazards
with the free flow of travel and activity for vehicles and pedestrians;

                                                    3
 I. To provide business owners the flexibility to have signs that meet the needs of the individual
businesses;
 J. To provide aesthetic protection for entry areas and primary corridors of The City of Bluffdale
 K. To provide protection from visual clutter;
 L. To promote public safety; and
 M. For the protection and promotion of community appearance.
11-22-2: SCOPE:
Nothing in this chapter is intended or interpreted to favor any one type of sign or content and where
necessary should be interpreted to be content neutral. The intent of this policy is to provide flexibility
in the allowance of signs as a part of the possible range of communication options available while
being narrowly tailored to achieve the purposes identified in section 11-22-1 of this chapter. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply to the display, construction, erection, alteration, use, location,
and maintenance of signs in the city. The requirements of this chapter shall not be construed to
prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this title, this code, or the Utah Code Annotated (UCA).
In the instance where provisions of this chapter conflict with other provisions of this code, the terms
of this chapter shall govern.
11-22-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall be defined as provided in this section for the purpose of use within this
chapter:
ALTERATION OF SIGN: Changing or rearranging, other than the sign copy, any structural part,
enclosure, lighting type, component, or location of a sign.
ANIMATION OR ANIMATED SIGNS: A sign which exhibits any of the following:
 A. The movement or the optical illusion of movement of any part of the sign structure, design, or a
pictorial segment, including the movement of any illumination;
 B. Flashing or strobe effects; or
 C. The spinning or other movement of a sign, or portion thereof;
However, electronic message center signs, digital time and temperature signs, and analog time
devices shall not be considered animated.
AREA OF A SIGN: A. For signs designed with a cabinet, the area of the sign will be that of the cabinet
face, excluding the outer edge of any border.
  B. For signs not designed with a cabinet, the area of the sign is ninety percent (90%) of the area
enclosed within the smallest regular geometric shape needed to completely encompass all letters,
logos, and insignias of the sign, including horizontal spacing between letters, logos, and insignias.
Words, abbreviations, logos, and insignias may be calculated independently to determine the area of
such signage.
AWNING SIGN: Signs, placed on or integrated into canopies mounted on the exterior of a building.


                                                    4
BACKLIGHTING: Illumination, the source of which is not itself visible, positioned inside or behind a
sign face such as behind raised letters and awnings or inside sign cabinets where the illumination is
seen through the letters or sign face.
BANNER: Plastic, fabric, or any other pliable material intended to be hung either with or without a
frame, typically placed between two (2) poles or hung on the wall of a building, but does not apply to
flags and emblems of political, professional, religious, educational, or corporate organizations flown
on a flagpole.
CABINET: The enclosure of a sign, not including the mounting structure or decorative elements of the
sign structure, upon which text, logos, and insignia are mounted and within which the majority of
electrical components, if needed, are located.
CHANGE OF COPY PANEL: A sign or portion of a sign designed to permit regular manual change of copy
with language other than the name of the business.
CHANGE OF SIGN FACE: The changing of the face of a sign or the sign face which does not affect the
structural elements of the sign and only affects the name or logo shown on the sign structure.
CLEAR VIEW AREA FOR SIGNS: A triangular space at the intersection of the driveway and adjoining
curb determined by a diagonal line connecting two (2) points measured thirty feet (30') equidistant
from the point of the intersection along the curb and the driveway, then connecting those points to
form a triangle.
COMMERCIAL SPEECH: Any speech which bears advertising, reference to a specific product, or
commercial transaction on behalf of a company or individual who is economically motivated for the
speech.
ELECTRONIC DISPLAY SIGN (EDS): Any non-appurtenant advertising structure, or portion thereof, that
displays electronic images, graphics or pictures, with or without textual information. Such a non-
appurtenant advertising structure has the capability of being changed or altered by electronic means
on a fixed display screen composed of a series of lights, including light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber
optics, plasma displays, light bulbs, or other illumination devices within the display area where the
message is displayed. Electronic display signs include computer programmable, microprocessor
controlled electronic or digital displays.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER SIGN: An on-premises sign capable of displaying words, symbols,
figures, or images that can be electronically or mechanically changed by remote or automatic means.
Television or video monitors used as window signs are considered electronic message centers.
FACE OF SIGN OR SIGN FACE: The surface of a sign cabinet upon, against, or through which letter,
logos, or insignias are displayed or illustrated.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any permanent sign type that is constructed independent of and not connected
to a building or other structure.
HALO OR REVERSE CHANNEL ILLUMINATION: Illumination, the source of which is not itself visible,
positioned inside or behind the text of a sign where the illumination is seen around and not through
the letters of the sign.




                                                   5
HANDBILL: A poster, flier, handout, brochure, leaflet, or other advertisement, typically made of non-
or semi-durable materials, attached to permanent signage, traffic signage, utility elements, vehicles,
or passed out to persons.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical dimension of a sign.
ILLEGAL SIGN: Any sign:
 A. Erected without first obtaining a sign permit that would otherwise be a permitted sign;
 B. Not otherwise established to be a legal nonconforming sign by the terms of this chapter; or
  C. Erected after the effective date of this chapter that has been determined to be a nonpermitted
sign type.
INDIRECT LIGHTING: A source of external illumination located away from the sign, which lights the
sign, but which may or may not itself be visible.
INFLATABLES: Any device supported by heated air, forced air, or other gases for the purpose of
drawing attention to a business.
INFORMATIONAL SIGN: A sign which provides information, such as directional flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic, entrance, exit, no parking, handicapped parking, loading area, and does not exceed
four (4) square feet of sign area.
LOGO: A graphic symbol representing an activity, use, or business.
MAINTENANCE OF A SIGN: The replacing, repairing, or repainting of a portion of a sign structure made
undesirable by ordinary wear and tear, weather, or accident. Maintenance does not include the
changing of colors or materials of any part of the sign.
MASTER SIGN PROGRAM: Sign specifications and details approved as a package that define or identify
allowed signage allotted to individual businesses throughout a multi-business commercial center.
MONUMENT SIGN: A freestanding, typically low-profile sign mounted on a base, detached from the
building.
NONACCESSORY SIGN; BILLBOARD: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service
or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than on the premises, and only incidentally on
the premises, if at all.
NON-APPURTENANT SIGN: Any sign which advertises products, services or business establishments
which are not located, conducted, manufactured or sold upon the same premises upon which the sign
is erected.
NON-APPURTENANT ADVERTISING STRUCTURE (BILLBOARD) SIGN: A non-appurtenant sign,
commonly referred to as a billboard, that is mounted or otherwise affixed to a pylon or other support
structure.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign or non-appurtenant advertising structure which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the purview of this chapter, and any
amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions of this
chapter.

                                                    6
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign located outside of the property or development boundary where the
referenced business is located, the referenced product is sold, or the referenced service is offered.
ON PREMISES SIGN: Any sign identifying or advertising a business, person, activity, goods, product, or
service located within the property or development boundary where the sign is located.
PAN FORMED/CHANNEL LETTER: An individual letter, which is three- dimensional and is constructed
by means of a three-sided channel, the open side of which may face a wall or be faced with a
translucent panel, which is placed away from the wall.
PERMANENT SIGN: Any permitted sign type which is:
 A. Intended to be and is so constructed:
   1. Of a lasting and enduring material;
   2. To remain unchanged in character, position, and condition exclusive of wear and tear;
   3. As a freestanding sign or wall or building; and
 B. Identified as a permanent sign type within this chapter.
POLE SIGN: A permanent freestanding sign mounted atop one (1) or more poles where the bottom of
the banner is at least six feet (6') from the ground.
POLITICAL SIGN: Any sign designed for the purpose of supporting or opposing a candidate,
proposition, or other measure at an election or for any other noncommercial expression not related to
the advertisement of any product, service, or the identification of any business.
PORTABLE, MOVABLE, AND HANDHELD SIGN: Any sign which varies its location basis, not otherwise
classified in this chapter as a permanent or temporary sign, which may or may not be carried, worn,
maneuvered, or manipulated as a means to draw attention from passers-by, including the use of
vehicles.
POST AND PANEL SIGN: A free-standing sign supported by two (2) posts or columns, one (1) on each
side of the sign. The sign itself does not have a base and does not contact the ground. A post and
panel sign may be permanent or temporary.
PYLON SIGN: A freestanding, high profile, on-premises sign completely self-supported where the
cabinet is significantly elevated above the ground and of a larger size than freestanding signs allowed
by this chapter. By reference, pylon sign also includes pole signs and tower signs.
SHINGLE SIGN: A sign identifying the tenant of the adjoining space and which:
 A. Is suspended from a roof overhang, covered porch, or covered walkway; or
 B. Hangs or swings freely from a support mounted to the wall of a building.
 SIGN: Any identification, description, illustration, or device which is in view of the general public and
which directs attention to a person, place, commodity, activity, institution, organization, or business.
Sign shall include any and all structural and supportive apparatus, identification, description,
illustration, or device. Sign shall not include any flag or insignia of the United States, State of Utah,
Salt Lake County, Bluffdale City, official historical plaques of any governmental agency, or emblems of
professional, religious, educational, or corporate organizations flown on a flagpole.

                                                    7
SIGN ALLOWANCE: The total cumulative sign type and area for all signs allowed to any one (1)
business, development, or applicant.
SNIPE SIGN: A sign or other advertisement, typically made of non- or semi-durable materials,
mounted to a tree, or utility pole, or to the ground by nails, staples, a wire frame, or similar device
within a right-of-way, including public or private park strips and medians or on public property.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground, wall, or building, intended to be
displayed for a limited period of time.
TOWER SIGN: A high profile, on premises sign completely self- supported by supports or other sign
apparatus independent of any building or other structure with architectural or decorative elements
incorporated into the supports as well as the sign.
VEHICLE SIGN: Any magnetic, painted, permanently attached, or temporarily attached sign which is
affixed to a vehicle or trailer. This definition does not apply to banner signs attached to vehicles, signs
or lettering on public transit vehicles, taxis or company vehicles operating during the normal course of
business or parked in a legally designated on-site parking space at the location of the company
owning the vehicle.
WALL SIGN: An on-premises sign attached to or erected against a wall.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign, graphic, screen, electronic message center or visual presentation which is
placed to be read from the exterior of a building that is:
 A. Painted or drawn onto a windowpane;
 B. Mounted onto the outside of a windowpane; or
 C. Mounted within three feet (3') of the windowpane on the inside of the building.
11-22-4: REQUIREMENT OF CONFORMITY:
No sign for which a permit is issued after the effective date of this chapter, may be placed or
maintained in the City, except as provided in this chapter. All signs maintained contrary to the
provisions of this chapter are declared to be nonconforming and, as such, may be dealt with or
removed as provided herein. Any sign that poses a public safety hazard may be removed as specified
in subsection 11-22-5(H)(4) of this chapter.
11-22-5: APPROVALS, PERMITS, APPLICATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT:
The Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the Land Use Authority for sign permit
administration and is authorized and directed to enforce all provisions of this chapter.
  A. Signs Associated With New Development: Development projects which are intended to contain
signage shall identify and be reviewed for a sign allowance as a part of the development review
according to the following:
   1. Sign Allowance Approval: All development applications for nonresidential projects shall also be
approved, as a part of the application for site plan approval, for the development's desired sign
allowance. Development sign allowance approval need only identify the location and size of all on site
permanent signs. Signage allowance approval shall not constitute approval of a sign permit. All
signage shall require application for and approval of a sign permit prior to installation.

                                                     8
   2. Master Sign Program Approval: Nonresidential multi-tenant developments shall pursue
development signage approval by way of a master sign program as a part of the application for site
plan approval. Master sign program approval need only identify the location and size of all desired on-
site permanent signs for each unit, pad, or business within the development. The master sign program
shall also include details regarding a signage theme. Approval of a master sign program shall not
constitute approval of a sign permit. All signage shall require application for and approval of a sign
permit prior to installation.
  3. Amendments: Amendments to approved sign allowances or master sign programs shall be
approved by the Zoning Administrator if the amendments fully comply with this chapter or other
applicable land use provisions or development agreement requirements.
  B. Signs Not Associated With New Development: Signs associated with an existing building or
developments, or for new developments that do not have an approved sign allowance, need only
pursue a sign permit and will be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator or their designee based on
independent sign allowances for each sign.
 C. Sign Permit Review:
   1. Sign Permit Required: Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, every sign within the City shall
require a sign permit prior to its erection, installation, or use. Such permit is separate and distinct
from any building permit or other permit that may be required by applicable provisions of this Code.
  2. Conditions Of Permit Issuance:
    a. If a specific occupancy or use displays an illegal or nonconforming sign, a new sign permit may
not be issued for that occupancy or use without modifications to or removal of the nonconforming
sign resulting in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
    b. If there is a requesting tenant having an illegal or nonconforming sign displayed within a
multi-tenant development or shopping center, new permits may not be issued for that space without
modifications or removal of nonconforming signs resulting in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
    c. A permit for a freestanding sign may be issued for a multi- tenant building, development, or
shopping center, provided the terms thereof specify modification or removal of all nonconforming
freestanding signs resulting in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
 D. Applications For Sign Permit:
   1. Sign Permit Application: To obtain a permit, the applicant must submit a complete sign permit
application to the Zoning Administrator on a form prescribed by the City. A sign permit application
may include all signs associated with a property that has received site plan approval, or has a master
sign program associated with approved development guidelines. The application must be
accompanied by the information specified in this section. Additional information may be required on
a case specific basis when determined to be necessary to verify the engineering or construction of the
sign or to assure the health, safety, and general welfare of the community, tenant, or business. Sign
permit applications shall comply with all adopted building codes.




                                                   9
   2. Submission Requirements: The following drawings and information must be digitally submitted
(.pdf format) with each sign permit application based on the type of permit requested:
    a. Monument And Freestanding Signs:
      (1) A copy of a plot plan for the entire site, drawn to scale, showing the distance of the sign to all
buildings, dimensioned property lines, and sign setbacks from public and private rights-of-way,
intersections, easements, and driveways.
     (2) A fully dimensioned, scaled elevation drawing showing height, color, area dimensions, sign
design, type of illumination, and aesthetics of the sign as will appear from the street. Elevations must
be provided for all four (4) sides of the sign.
      (3) A complete set of detail drawings of the sign's construction including name of sign maker,
electrical plan, foundation scheme, and name of the licensed contractor who will install the sign.
    b. Wall Signs:
      (1) A fully dimensioned, scaled elevation drawing showing the linear and area dimensions of
the sign and the building elevation on which the sign is to be placed, color, sign design, type of
illumination, and aesthetics of the sign as will appear from the street.
      (2) Details of the sign's construction and attachment to the wall or building, including an
electrical plan, the name of sign maker, and the name of the licensed contractor who will install the
sign.
    c. Temporary Signs:
      (1) A fully dimensioned, scaled elevation drawing showing the linear and area dimensions of
the sign and the building elevation on which the sign is to be placed, color, sign design, and aesthetics
of the sign as it will appear from the street.
      (2) A statement related to the length of time for display.
    d. Change Of Sign Face:
      (1) A fully dimensioned, scaled elevation drawing showing the linear and area dimensions of
the sign and the building or structure elevation on which the sign is to be placed, color, and sign
design as it will appear on the building or sign structure.
   e. Additional Information Required: The following information shall be required for all sign
permit applications:
     (1) Written consent of the owner, lessee, agent, or trustee having charge of the building or
property on which the sign is proposed to be located.
      (2) Proof of application for or issuance of a current Bluffdale City business license.
      (3) Address and phone number of the property owner, lessee, agent, or trustee having charge of
the building or property on which the sign is proposed to be located.
     (4) The license number, phone number, and address for the general or electrical contractor
who will install the sign.


                                                    10
   3. Permits In Conformance: Permits authorizing the use, construction, reconstruction, or
alteration of any sign may be withheld when inadequate information is submitted to determine if the
proposed action is in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
 E. Review And Approval Procedures:
   1. Permit Issued: Upon submittal, the application will be reviewed for conformance with the
standards of this chapter. A permit will be issued, provided the proposed sign meets all applicable
requirements of this chapter and the required fees are paid.
   2. Inspections: All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to the following inspections:
    a. A footing or structural inspection on all freestanding signs when required by the adopted
building code;
    b. An electrical inspection on all illuminated signs when a new meter is set or otherwise required
by the adopted building code;
    c. A final zoning compliance inspection to ensure the sign has been located and constructed
according to the approved sign permit. Photo documentation of final installation shall be placed in
the permit file.
 F. Permit Fees: Sign permit fees shall be assessed according to the current Bluffdale City
consolidated fee schedule. When a permit is obtained in order to voluntarily bring a legal
nonconforming sign into compliance with the terms of this chapter, there will be no fees assessed to
the permit.
 G. Permit Limitations:
   1. Transferability: Permits, permit numbers, permit applications, and supporting information for
signs shall not be transferable to other sites or signs and shall be valid only for a specific sign at the
designated location. If at any time a sign or sign structure is altered, removed, or relocated in a
manner different from the terms of an issued sign permit, such existing sign permit will become void
and a new application must be made for the sign as altered or relocated. Signs for legal, conforming
signs associated with a business that has its ownership transferred with no proposed alteration to the
business name, building, or signage shall, upon notification to the city, have its permits transferred to
the new business owner without need of a new application.
   2. Sign A Nuisance: No permit for a sign may be deemed to constitute permission or authorization
to maintain a public or private nuisance, nor shall any permit issued hereunder constitute a defense in
any action to abate a nuisance.
 H. Enforcement:
   1. Violations: If the Zoning Administrator finds a sign for which a permit has been issued violates
any applicable provision of this chapter, the administrator shall pursue correction of the violation,
including revocation of the permit and removal of the sign, at the cost of the permit holder, as
outlined in this subsection.
  2. Penalties For Violations: Any person, firm, corporation, or entity violating any provision of this
chapter or failing to comply with any regulation hereunder shall be considered a violation of this title,
punishable as outlined in section 1-4-1 of the City Code.

                                                    11
    3. Revocation Of A Sign Permit: The Zoning Administrator may, in writing, revoke a sign permit
issued under provisions of this section, upon determining that the sign was constructed in violation of
the terms of this chapter, the permit was issued on the basis of a material omission or misstatement
of fact, or the permit was issued in violation of this chapter. Revocation of a sign permit which is to
include or involve removal of a sign shall also comply with the provisions of subsection H4 of this
section.
    a. Notice: Notice of the Zoning Administrator's decision to revoke a sign permit shall be served to
the holder of the permit:
      (1) By delivering in person a copy of the notice to the holder of the permit, or their agent when
specified;
     (2) By leaving a copy of the notice with any person in charge of the premises; or
      (3) In the event no such person can be found on the premises, by the certified mailing of a copy
of the notice to the permit holder.
    b. Illegal Sign: If no appeal has been made at the end of the ten (10) day appeal period, the
permit will be considered revoked and the sign illegal. The zoning administrator shall then initiate the
process for the removal of the illegal sign at the permit holder's cost.
   4. Removal Of Signs:
    a. Authority: The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to require removal of any sign.
      (1) Written Notice: Before bringing action to require removal of any sign, the zoning
administrator shall give written notice to the owner of the sign or the owner of the premises on which
such sign is located. The notice shall state the violation charged and the reasons and grounds for
removal, specifying the deficiencies or defects and what repairs, if any, will make the sign conform to
the requirements of this chapter. The notice shall also specify that the sign must be removed or made
to conform with the provisions of this chapter within the notice period. Service of notice shall be
made personally on the owner or lessee, or by certified mail addressed to the owner or lessee at the
address specified in the permit or the last known address.
     (2) Notice Period:
       (A) The notice period for permanent signs shall be ten (10) days.
       (B) The notice period for temporary signs shall be forty eight (48) hours.
     (3) Enforcement: If the owner or lessee of the premises upon which the sign is located has not
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator that the sign has been removed or
brought into compliance with the provisions of this chapter by the end of the notice period, the
Zoning Administrator shall proceed with enforcement procedures as allowed by Bluffdale City Code.
      (4) Continuing Violation: Reerection of any sign or substantially similar sign on the same
premises after a notice of violation has been issued shall be deemed a continuation of the original
violation.
    b. Removal Of Temporary Signs: The Zoning Administrator may remove any illegal temporary
sign which is maintained or reerected after the expiration of the notice period, if the owner or lessee of


                                                   12
the premises has been issued a notice of violation at least once before for the same violation involving
the same or similar sign. When temporary signs are removed by city staff, the responsible party shall
be notified within two (2) business days of the reason for the removal and the location from which the
sign was removed. Removed signs shall be made available for the responsible party to pick up for
three (3) calendar days. After that time, removed signs will be destroyed.
    c. Safety Hazard: Notwithstanding other provisions of this subsection H4, the Zoning
Administrator may cause the immediate removal, following notice to the owner of the sign or the
property on which it is located, of any unsafe or defective sign that creates an immediate hazard to
persons or property.
   d. Costs Of Corrective Action: The costs of removal of a sign by the city shall be borne by the
owner of the sign.
   5. Cost Of Enforcement: The city shall be entitled to recover all costs incurred, including attorney
fees, in the enforcement of actions under this chapter and in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-9a-802 and 803, as amended.
   6. Liability For Damages: The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to relieve or limit in
any way, the responsibility or liability of any person, firm, or corporation which erects or owns any
sign for personal injury or property damage caused by the sign. In addition, this chapter shall not be
construed to impose upon the city, its officers, or its employees any responsibility or liability by
reason of the approval of any sign under the provisions of this chapter.
 I. Appeal: An applicant for a sign permit or a permit holder may appeal the decision of the Zoning
Administrator to not issue or revoke a sign permit to the City’s Appeal Authority by filing an appeal
application within ten (10) days of the date when the notice was served or the date of the certified
mailing, pursuant to the requirements found in 11-3-4(B) of the City’s Land Use Ordinance.
11-22-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
  A. Sign Area Measurement: Signs which use a cabinet shall have their area determined to be the
area of the entire cabinet face, excluding its border, visible from the outside of the sign. In the case of
individual letters used as a sign, the area is ninety percent (90%) of the area enclosed within the
smallest regular geometric shape needed to completely encompass all letters, insignias, and symbols
of the sign, including horizontal spacing between letters, insignias, symbols, and any extension of
support structures not enclosed within the area of all individual letters. Sign measurements shall also
be subject to the following:
   1. The supports, uprights, or structure on which any sign is supported shall not be included in
determining the sign area unless such supports, uprights, or structure are designed in a manner as to
form an integral background of the display.
   2. Sign area shall be calculated for one sign face, except as otherwise stated for particular sign
types in this chapter.
   3. Sign allowances shall include all on premises signs unless under this chapter a particular type of
sign:
    a. Is expressly excluded from the calculation of sign allowances; or


                                                    13
    b. Has a separate basis for calculating sign area.
   4. For signs using individual letters, the area of the entire sign shall be calculated using a single
regular geometric shape, albeit words, abbreviations, logos, and insignias may be calculated
independently to determine area of such signage.
 B. Sign Height Measurement:
  1. Freestanding Signs: Sign height for all freestanding signs is the distance measured from the
average finished grade at the base of the sign to the topmost portion of a sign, excluding decorative
embellishments.
   2. Building And Wall Mounted Signs: The height of any building or wall mounted sign is the vertical
distance measured for the cabinet or geometric shape used to determine the sign's area.
C. Clearance Requirements:
  1. No sign or sign structure shall be erected in such a manner that any portion of its surface or
supports will interfere in any way with the free use of any fire escape, exit, or standpipe.
   2. No permanent or temporary sign shall obstruct any door or window opening.
  3. Freestanding signs shall not extend over any pedestrian or vehicular access area unless
specifically approved by the city engineer and the fire chief.
  4. No sign shall be erected or maintained which has less clearance from communication lines and
energized electrical power lines than that prescribed by the laws of the state of Utah.
  5. No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or inside or over street rights of way, except as
specifically authorized in this chapter.
  D. Setback Requirements: To determine setback distances, measurements shall be taken from the
point of the sign or sign structure which is closest to the street, right of way, district line, or property
line from which the sign is to be set back.
   1. All freestanding and monument signs shall be set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from the
back of the curb to allow for park strip and sidewalk where no sidewalk currently exists. Where
sidewalk exists, the minimum setback shall be three (3) feet from property line or back of sidewalk,
whichever is greater. Setbacks from property lines are in addition to minimum curb setback.
   2. Signs in any commercial or industrial zoning district shall be located not less than twenty feet
(20') from any adjacent residentially zoned property.
   3. No signs greater than three feet (3') in height shall be permitted in the triangular clear view area.
 E. Traffic Safety: No sign or other advertising structure shall be erected which in any manner may be
confused with an official traffic sign or signal or which bears words normally used in such signs, i.e.,
stop, go slow, caution, danger, warning, etc., in a manner that resembles traffic signs. No sign shall
have lighting which impairs the vision or anyone traveling upon a public or private street or distracts
any driver so as to create a public nuisance. No sign or group of signs may exceed one foot-candle in
brightness as measured at the property line.
 F. Design, Construction, And Maintenance:

                                                     14
  1. All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of all codes, including building and electrical
codes adopted by the city.
   2. Permanent signs shall be constructed of permanent material and shall be attached to the
ground, a building, or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame, or structure.
  3. All signs shall be maintained in good and safe structural condition. The landscaped area in
which any freestanding sign is placed shall be kept free from weeds, garbage, and debris.
   4. Permanent signs shall be designed so as to be an integral part of the overall design of a site and
architecturally compatible with the buildings to which they relate.
  G. Illumination Requirements: Permanent signs may be illuminated according to this subsection
unless otherwise specified in this chapter. Illumination may be either by direct, internal, or internal
indirect means and shall be so installed according to all applicable codes and regulations.
   1. Any external light source used for the illumination of a sign shall be shielded so all direct light
shines onto the sign area only.
  2. Neither direct nor reflected light from any source shall create a traffic hazard, distraction to
operators of motor vehicles on public thoroughfares, or create a nuisance to surrounding properties.
   3. For signs illuminated from an internal light source:
    a. The light source shall not be visible from the exterior of the sign; and
    b. No direct lighting shall shine beyond the sign area.
   4. The following illumination types shall be prohibited for all signs:
    a. Flashing, blinking, or rotating lights;
     b. Exposed neon or similar tube type illumination, except as specifically permitted elsewhere in
this chapter;
    c. Visible bare incandescent, fluorescent, metal halide, or high- or low-pressure sodium light
bulbs; and
    d. Mercury vapor lights.
   5. All applicable outdoor lighting standards of this title, found in Chapter 11-16-19 of this title shall
be adhered to at all times.
 H. Standards For Permitted Sign Types:
   1. Sign Integration And Design Standards: Sign locations shall be integrated with landscape plans
to avoid obstruction of the sign and traffic.
    a. Wall sign copy is strongly recommended to be designed with individual letters and logos
rather than cabinets.
    b. Signage located facing residential areas or which present the risk of light nuisances to
adjacent properties shall utilize signage consisting of reverse pan channel lettered and lit designs.



                                                    15
    c. Where tower signs are permitted, the poles and other structural supports shall be finished
architecturally with detailed masonry products such as concrete masonry units, brick, or stone, which
shall be architecturally and aesthetically designed to match building or development to which it is
associated;
    d. Monument signs shall have at least a one foot (1') opaque pedestal designed as part of the
foundation which conceals supports. The pedestal shall run at least seventy five percent (75%) of the
horizontal length of the sign and no space may be exposed between the pedestal and the ground or
landscaped area.
   2. Sign Faces: Signs, other than banners, desired to be multifaced may have a maximum spread of
forty-five degrees (45°) between the faces.
  3. Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be placed on the wall of the business which the sign identifies. No
wall sign shall be larger than two hundred fifty (250) square feet.
  4. Freestanding And Monument Signs:
     a. Traffic Hazard: Freestanding and monument signs shall be placed in a manner so as to not
interfere with traffic in any way, confuse drivers, or present any traffic hazard.
     b. Curb Setback: All freestanding and monument signs shall be set back a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') from back of the curb where no sidewalk currently exists and shall be in compliance with
clear view sign. Where sidewalk exists, the minimum setback shall be three (3) feet from the property
line or back of sidewalk, whichever is greater.
11-22-7: PERMITTED ON PREMISES PERMANENT SIGNS:
Permitted signage described in this section is for specified zones, unless otherwise outlined in
section 11-22-9 of this chapter or an approved development agreement or special zoning district
where the provisions therein will govern. The area of wall, freestanding, and monument signs are
added together in order to arrive at the total sign allowance.
 A. Nonresidential Zones:
  1. Wall Signs:
    a. For any one side of a building the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of building wall
shall be one square foot.
    b. When the wall on which the sign is placed is more than two hundred feet (200') from any
public right-of-way, the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of building wall shall be one and
one-half (1 ½) square feet.
    c. No part of a building wall sign shall extend above a roofline.
    d. No part of such signs shall project from a building wall a distance greater than twelve inches
(12").
  2. Freestanding And Monument Signs:
    a. The maximum number of signs per street frontage shall be one, except as follows:



                                                   16
     (1) A Commercial Center having a minimum of six hundred fifty feet (650') of linear frontage
along a single public street may have additional monument signs in accordance with the following:
       (A) No more than four (4) monument signs; and
       (B) A minimum of two hundred (200) linear feet between signs.
    b. The maximum sign area shall be twenty-four (24) square feet.
    c. The maximum height shall be six feet (6').
    d. The maximum vertical dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be four feet (4').
    e. The maximum horizontal dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be ten feet (10').
    f. Such signs shall be placed within a landscaped setting of not less than two hundred forty (240)
square feet.
    g. Up to fifty percent (50%) of the allowed sign area may be used for a change panel sign in
conjunction with the freestanding monument sign.
  3. Tower Signs:
    a. Tower (or pylon) signs are permitted only for developments or multiple tenant complexes with
one hundred thousand (100,000) or more square feet of building floor area, inclusive of all pads within
the development, subject to the following.
    b. Such signs shall identify the project, building, business or businesses within the development,
or development.
    c. The maximum area of such sign shall be seventy-five (75) square feet.
    d. The maximum height of such sign shall be twenty feet (20').
    e. The maximum number of such signs per complex or development shall be one sign.
    f. Such sign shall be placed within a landscaped area of four (4) square feet for each one square
foot of sign area.
  4. Informational Signs:
    a. The maximum number of such signs each for driveway entrance from a public or private right
of way shall be one sign.
    b. The maximum height of such sign shall be three feet (3').
    c. The maximum area of such sign shall be four (4) square feet.
    d. The maximum area of business name or logo on such sign shall be one square foot.
    e. Where a driveway is shared the maximum area of such sign shall be eight (8) square feet.
    f. Where a driveway is shared the maximum combined area of the sign copy shall be two (2)
square feet.



                                                    17
   5. Properties Developed As A Multibuilding Complex: Properties developed as a multibuilding
complex shall be allowed on site freestanding signs, in addition to that otherwise permitted by this
section, subject to the following requirements:
    a. The maximum number of signs for a complex shall be determined by the following:
      (1) Complexes of two (2) or three (3) buildings shall be allowed one additional monument sign.
      (2) Complexes of four (4) or more buildings shall be allowed up to one additional sign for every
two (2) buildings.
    b. The maximum height of such signs shall be seven feet (7').
    c. The maximum area of such sign shall be thirty-two (32) square feet.
    d. Such signs shall not be located within fifty feet (50') of a public right of way.
   6. Awning Signs: Signs may be permitted on awnings if the following conditions have been met:
   a. The awning is compatible with the color, architectural character, and design of the building
upon which the awning is mounted, the location is appropriate, and the materials used are durable.
    b. If the awning is mounted on a multi-tenant building, the awning sign shall comply with the
approved master sign program, if one has been approved, regarding its place, color, size, material,
and letter style.
    c. The maximum area the awning sign shall cover is twenty percent (20%) of the total front face
area of the awning.
    d. Sign letters or logos may be placed on the awning valance only.
     e. If sign letters or logos are placed on the awning, only the face area of the letters or logos may
be illuminated. All illumination must be internal behind the surface of the awning.
   7. Restaurant Uses: Restaurants with drive-through facilities shall be allowed one on site
freestanding sign per drive-through lane, in addition to that otherwise permitted by this section,
according to the following requirements:
    a. The additional freestanding sign shall be located more than thirty feet (30') from the closest
public right of way property line.
    b. The additional freestanding sign shall not be located more than five feet (5') from the drive-
through lane.
    c. The maximum area of such sign shall be forty-five (45) square feet.
    d. Such sign shall not be taller than seven feet (7').
    e. Such signs shall be illuminated by internal means only. Up to 25% of the may be utilized as an
electronic message center.
    f. Such signs shall be identified and accommodated in the approved sign allowance and shall
require a sign permit prior to installation.

                                                    18
 B. Residential and Agricultural Zones:
  1. Permitted commercial and home occupation uses within residential and agricultural structures
shall be allowed signage according to the following requirements:
    a. No part of a building wall sign shall extend above a roofline.
    b. Such sign shall be installed with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the face of
the building wall.
    c. Such signs shall not project from a building wall a distance greater than twelve inches (12").
    d. Such signs shall have a maximum area of two (2) square feet.
   2. Subdivisions and residential developments shall be allowed signage according to the following
requirements:
    a. The maximum number of signs shall be two (2) per vehicular entrance into the development.
    b. Such signs shall not exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
    c. Such signs shall be a maximum of five feet (5') in height.
    d. Such signs shall be located a maximum of twenty five feet (25') the closest right of way
property line inside the development.
    e. Such signs shall be mounted on or integrated into a wall surrounding the development
        3. Permitted commercial (non-home occupation) businesses approved within separate non-
residential structures within the R-1-43 and A-5 zones shall be allowed signage according to the
following requirements:
        a. Wall Signs:
                (i). For any one side of a building the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of
building wall shall be one square foot.
               (ii). When the wall on which the sign is placed is more than two hundred feet (200')
from any public right-of-way, the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of building wall shall be
one and one-half (1 ½) square feet.
                (iii). No part of a building wall sign shall extend above a roofline.
                 (iv). No part of such signs shall project from a building wall a distance greater than
                twelve inches (12").
        b. One Freestanding Monument Sign
        (i). The maximum sign area shall be twenty-four (24) square feet.
        (ii). The maximum height shall be six feet (6').
        (iii). The maximum vertical dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be four feet (4').
        (iv).The maximum horizontal dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be ten feet (10').


                                                    19
        (v). Such signs shall be placed within a landscaped setting of not less than two hundred forty
(240) square feet.
       (vi). Up to fifty percent (50%) of the allowed sign area may be used for a change panel sign in
conjunction with the freestanding monument sign.
       4.       Public Schools shall be allowed signage according to the following requirements:
                a. Wall Signs:
                (i). For any one side of a building the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of
building wall shall be one square foot.
               (ii). When the wall on which the sign is placed is more than two hundred feet (200')
from any public right-of-way, the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of building wall shall be
one and one-half (1 ½) square feet.
                (iii). No part of a building wall sign shall extend above a roofline.
                 (iv). No part of such signs shall project from a building wall a distance greater than
                twelve inches (12").
       b. One Freestanding Monument Sign
       (i). The maximum sign area shall be twenty-four (24) square feet.
        (ii). The maximum height shall be six feet (6').
       (iii). The maximum vertical dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be four feet (4').
       (iv).The maximum horizontal dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be ten feet (10').
        (v). Such signs shall be placed within a landscaped setting of not less than two hundred forty
(240) square feet.
       (vi). Up to fifty percent (50%) of the allowed sign area may be used for a change panel sign in
conjunction with the freestanding monument sign.
       (vii). EMC’s?
       5. Churches shall be allowed signage according to the following requirements:
                a. Wall Signs:
                (i). For any one side of a building the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of
building wall shall be one square foot.
               (ii). When the wall on which the sign is placed is more than two hundred feet (200')
from any public right-of-way, the maximum sign area for each one linear foot of building wall shall be
one and one-half (1 ½) square feet.
                (iii). No part of a building wall sign shall extend above a roofline.
                 (iv). No part of such signs shall project from a building wall a distance greater than
                twelve inches (12").

                                                    20
        b. One Freestanding Monument Sign
        (i). The maximum sign area shall be twenty-four (24) square feet.
        (ii). The maximum height shall be six feet (6').
        (iii). The maximum vertical dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be four feet (4').
        (iv).The maximum horizontal dimension of the cabinet or panel shall be ten feet (10').
        (v). Such signs shall be placed within a landscaped setting of not less than two hundred forty
(240) square feet.
       (vi). Up to fifty percent (50%) of the allowed sign area may be used for a change panel sign in
conjunction with the freestanding monument sign.
        Vii: EMC’s?


11-22-8: TEMPORARY SIGNAGE:
Temporary signage outlined in this section are allowed subject to the filing of an application for and
issuance of a temporary signage permit, unless expressly exempted in this section.
 A. General Requirements: The following shall apply to all temporary signage as outlined herein:
  1. Such signs shall not be illuminated unless by way of permanently installed indirect lighting
sources.
   2. Such signs shall not be placed in any public or private right of way, park strips, medians, or
roundabouts.
   3. Such signs shall not be placed so as to create a traffic hazard in a clear view area.
   4. Such signs shall require application for an issuance of a temporary sign permit prior to installing
or erecting a temporary sign, unless expressly exempted in this section.
  5. All temporary signage must be set back beyond the farthest most part of the permanent ground
mounted signage on the same property that fronts the same property line.
   6. Businesses utilizing electronic message centers as provided within this chapter shall not be
allowed the use of temporary signage as outlined within this section.
   B. Properties Subject To Development Or Construction: Properties which have been approved for
a subdivision or site plan are subject to the following guidelines:
   1. Properties subject to development or construction shall be allowed one on site sign.
   2. The maximum area of such sign shall be forty-eight (48) square feet.
   3. The maximum height of such sign shall be eight feet (8').
   4. Such sign may be illuminated by indirect lighting only.



                                                    21
   5. Such sign shall be removed immediately upon issuance of the final building permit for
residential properties or the final certificate of occupancy for nonresidential properties.
 C. Banners: Banners may be used subject to the following provisions:
   1. Such signs may be used in all nonresidential zones and the designated commercial land use
areas within approved mixed-use developments.
   2. Such signs shall be allowable for the any recognized federal, state, or religious holiday periods
without a permit.
   3. Such signs shall be allowable for an additional four (4) occurrences per calendar year up to
fourteen (14) days per occurrence. Occurrences may run consecutively, upon issuance of a temporary
sign permit for such, but shall be considered independent occurrences.
   4. Businesses which have received a new business license shall be allowed a banner sign for forty-
five (45) days during a grand opening upon issuance of a temporary sign permit. This permit shall not
count as an occurrence.
  5. One banner per street frontage may be a maximum of thirty-two (32) square feet.
   6. Such signs must be securely attached to a structure, fence, or to ground posts. When mounted
to the ground, banners may be not higher than forty-eight inches (48") from the ground to the top of
the sign and must have a stabilizing crossbar between the ground posts at the top of the sign.
   7. Such signs shall not be located within any public or private right-of-way, park strips, medians,
or roundabouts.
  8. Such signs shall not be placed where they obstruct the view of any sign identified in
subsection11-22-10(A) of this chapter.
   9. Banners may be two (2) faced but may not be split faced as identified in subsection 11-22-
6(H)(2) of this chapter.
   10. Permission for the placement of such signs from property owners shall be required as a part of
an application for a temporary signage permit.


11-22-9: AREAS OF SPECIAL DESIGNATION:
In an effort to complement and enhance the experience and aesthetics of certain areas of the
community, these areas have been identified to have unique signage allowances. The signage
allowances outlined for these special districts shall not be construed as cumulative to the allowable
signage identified elsewhere in this chapter, but rather the exclusive signage allowable within the
areas identified herein.
  A. Freeway Frontage Roads: The intent of this subsection is that the areas of the community directly
oriented and related to the I-15 freeway and Bangerter Highway warrant specialized standards for
signage where those properties possess limited and unique visibility constraints due to higher speeds
of traffic and differences in elevation between businesses and passersby. Any freestanding business or
group of businesses shall be allowed the signs described in this subsection. In addition to subsections
A1a and A1b of this section, to qualify for such signs the business or group of businesses, if located on

                                                   22
more than one lot or parcel, must have a common driveway and unrestricted cross access between
the adjoining lots or parcels.
  1. To qualify for such signs the business or group of businesses shall:
    a. Abut or have direct access to Pony Express Road or abut the right of way of Bangerter
       Highway;
    b. Not be included within the Gateway Redwood zoning designation which has its own specific
       master sign program approval;
     c. Any qualifying freeway frontage road sign must be placed in such a location that it is clearly
visible from I-15 or Bangerter Highway traffic and in no case shall the sign be located more than two
hundred feet (200') from the I-15 or Bangerter Highway right-of-way;
     2. Businesses or a group of businesses within a single development which meet the qualifications
of subsection A1 of this section qualify for one tower sign as a substitution for one allowed
freestanding monument sign providing the property on which they are located has a minimum two
and one-half (2.5) acres and a minimum four hundred (400) linear feet of lot frontage.
    a. Freeway Frontage tower sign standards are as follows:
     (1) The maximum height shall be fifty (50’) in the freeway I-15 frontage road designated area;
the maximum height shall be twenty-five (25’) in the Bangerter Highway area.
       (2) The tower sign's structural support shall be a minimum width of five feet (5') or a minimum
of thirty-six inches (36") each for signs with two (2) or more structural supports located near the
outside width dimensions of the sign;
     (3) The structural supports of the tower sign shall be finished architecturally with detailed
masonry products such as concrete masonry units, brick, or stone, which shall be architecturally and
aesthetically designed to match the building or development to which it is associated;
      (4) The tower sign shall be finished with architectural or decorative elements that serve to
relate the sign to the building or development to which it is associated; and
     (5) The sign area shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet in the freeway frontage road
designated area along I-15; the sign area shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in the
freeway frontage road designated area along Bangerter Highway.
        (6) The sign may be utilized as an electronic message center, pursuant to: …
   3. Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances outlined within this subsection and
which have frontage on two (2) public rights-of-way shall be allowed one freestanding monument sign
along the nonfreeway frontage street.
    4. Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances shall be allowed wall signs outlined
in subsection 11-22-7(A)(1) of this chapter.
   5. Properties eligible for freeway frontage signage allowances shall be allowed banner signs not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) square feet. All other provisions outlined in subsection 11-22-8 (D) of
this chapter regarding banner signs shall apply.



                                                   23
  7. Signage outlined in subsections 11-22-7 A4, A5, A6, and A7 of this chapter shall be allowed as
outlined in those subsections.
   8. Other signs: Signage allowable under this section and section 9-26-100 of this chapter shall be
allowed with the added requirements of this subsection.
 B. Electronic Message Centers (EMC) within Designated Commercial Zones: A business which
qualifies for a monument or tower sign as described in this chapter and which resides in the GC-1, HC,
RC, DR, and CI zones may qualify to utilize the change copy (or all of it) area of the sign as an electronic
message center, subject to the following:
   1. All electronic message centers are subject to the following standards:
    a. Such signs shall display full color messages or images only and the use of single colored text
and images is prohibited.
     b. Each message/advertisement displayed on an EMC shall remain static for a minimum of eight
(8) seconds. Animation, flashing, starburst or other similar frame effects are prohibited.
    c. Pixel pitch shall be as follows:
     (1) EMCs other than freeway frontage areas shall have a true pixel pitch between one millimeter
(1 mm) and ten millimeters (10 mm) due to closer proximity of travelers to signs.
     (2) EMCs in freeway frontage areas as designated in this chapter shall have a true pixel pitch
between one millimeter (1 mm) and sixteen millimeters (16 mm) due to higher speeds and distance
between travelers and signs.
    d. No EMC shall utilize a white or solid colored background for greater than or equal to fifty
percent (50%) of the sign area.
    e. EMCs may only be allowed as part of a monument, monolithic or tower sign, as allowed in this
chapter. Such signs shall comply with size restrictions set forth in this chapter.
    f. All EMCs are required to comply with the following LED sign illumination requirements:
       (1) All permitted EMCs shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that automatically
determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to automatically dim according to ambient
light conditions, or that can be adjusted to comply with the 0.3 foot- candle measurements. In
addition, EMCs must have a default mechanism to turn off the sign within twenty-four (24) hours of a
reported malfunction.
     (2) Sign illumination levels for EMCs shall never, at maximum display intensity, exceed 0.3 foot-
candle over ambient lighting conditions when measured at the distance based on the formula of
square root of area of sign times one hundred (100) ( area of sign x 100). Light cutoff devices shall
minimize light above the sign.
      (3) The illuminance of an EMC shall be measured with an illuminance meter set to measure
foot-candles accurate to at least two (2) decimals. Illuminance shall be measured with the EMC off,
and again with the EMC displaying a white image. All measurements shall be taken perpendicular to
the face of the EMC at the distance determined by the total square footage of the EMC as set forth in
subsection D1f(2) of this section.


                                                    24
     (4) The applicant shall submit a photometric matrix (showing the dispersal in foot-candles)
showing that the sign meets all the requirements of this code.
       (5) The owner shall be required to submit written certification from the sign manufacturer that
the light intensity shall not exceed the maximum levels specified in the above table and photocell
dimming prior to the issuance of a sign permit.
   2. Businesses utilizing EMCs as described in this section shall not be allowed the use of temporary
signage as described in section 11-22-8 of this chapter.
  3. Electronic message center monument signs must have a minimum ten-foot (10') setback from
any right of way.


11-22-10: SIGNS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT:
Signage outlined in this section are allowed and does not require a sign permit or fee.
 A. Official Signs: Signs required or authorized for by law, statute, or ordinance, including: 1) traffic
control and devices to identify streets; 2) signs associated with and limited to information and
directions required by the building code, fire code, or other city codes; 3) signs specifically designed to
meet the requirements of the Americans with disabilities act; 4) signs erected by public utility
companies or construction area signs to warn of danger or hazardous conditions; and 5) cornerstones,
commemorative tablets, and historical signs.
  1. Such signs may be of the type, number, area, height, location, or illumination authorized by the
applicable law, statute, or ordinance.
   2. No such sign shall be placed in a public right of way unless specifically authorized or required by
law, statute, or ordinance.
   3. On premises street address identification cannot exceed two (2) square feet in area and is
limited to one such sign per use or building, whichever is greater.
   4. Cornerstones, commemorative tablets, and historical signs cannot exceed four (4) square feet in
area per face and four feet (4') in height if freestanding, and such signs must be nonilluminated or
indirectly illuminated.
  B. Flags: Flags of any nation, organization of nations, state, county, city, religious group, civic group,
fraternal organization, or any educational institution in a number and specification as follows:
   1. In residential zones:
    a. A maximum of one flagpole not to exceed thirty five feet (35') in height may be installed for
every single-family detached residential unit; or
     b. A maximum of two (2) flagpoles not to exceed thirty five feet (35') in height each may be
installed for every multi-family development.
   2. In nonresidential zones:
     a. Lots or developments of less than one acre may install one flagpole not to exceed sixty feet
(60') in height;

                                                    25
      b. Lots or developments of greater than one acre but less than two (2) acres may install up to two
(2) flagpoles not to exceed sixty feet (60') in height each; or
     c. Lots or developments greater than two (2) acres may install up to three (3) flagpoles not to
exceed sixty feet (60') in height each, one of which may be increased to not more than eighty feet (80')
in height.
   3. All flagpoles of twenty feet (20') or more in height shall obtain a building permit from the city for
the footing structure, pursuant to adopted building codes.
   4. The size of the flag, when measured diagonally, shall not exceed one-third (1/3) of the height of
the flagpole. Flagpoles, if designed to accommodate such, may hold more than one flag so long as the
combined size of all flags, when measured diagonally, do not exceed one-half (1/2) of the height of the
flagpole.
   5. Flags may be illuminated using directional uplighting only as specified in 11-16-19 of this title.
 C. Nonresidential Zones: In nonresidential zones:
   1. Window signs when:
    a. The total area of such signs does not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total window
area;
    b. The windows in which the signs are placed are on the ground floor level of the building or
business unit;
    c. One exposed neon sign not exceeding four (4) square feet in area shall be allowed per street
frontage as a part of allowed window signage; and
          d. Window sign shall not be a computer monitor, television screen, or electronic message
center.
   2. Two (2) A-frame signs when:
    a. Not taller than three feet (3') high;
    b. Not wider three feet (3');
    c. Displayed during hours of operation for any licensed business;
     d. Not be placed within any right of way unless the building is located less than five feet (5') from
the right of way property line in which case A-frame signs may be placed within the park strip area;
     e. Not located on or over any sidewalk or pedestrian walkway or to obstruct the view of vehicular
traffic approaching, at, or leaving any intersection or access/egress for any parking area; and
    f. Not illuminated.
  3. A single portable sign, not to exceed two feet (2') in vertical dimension and two feet (2') in
horizontal dimension, on private property, subject to the following:
    a. Such signs shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from any right of way property line;



                                                    26
    b. Such signs shall not be located within the parking area of any nonresidential property or
within any clear vision area;
    c. Such signs shall not rest upon or be attached to any other signage, utility pole or device, or
sign identified by subsection A of this section;
   d. Such signs shall not be located within or obstruct any public or private sidewalk or other
pedestrian walkway; and
    e. Such signs shall be located:
        (1) On the property containing the enterprise for which the sign represents; or
     (2) In the case of a multi-tenant property, within one hundred feet (100') of the enterprise for
which the sign represents.
  4. Vehicle signs when set back from a minimum of fifty feet (50') from any public or private right of
way, park strips, medians, or roundabouts.
  D. Holiday Decorations: Holiday decorations or displays associated with any national, local, or
religious holiday or celebration when:
   1. Displayed for not more than forty-five (45) days prior to and not more than fourteen (14) after
the holiday;
   2. Contained entirely within the boundaries of the lot or premises where they are erected;
   3. Placed so as to avoid confusion with authorized traffic control device; and
   4. Conforming to all traffic safety standards, including restrictions in clear view areas.
  E. Signs On Residential Properties Subject To Sale, Lease, Rent Or Auction: Properties subject to
sale, lease, rent, or auction shall be allowed the following signage without necessity of an application
for or issuance of a sign permit:
   1. Residentially Zoned Properties:
     a. Properties subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction shall be allowed one on site sign of one of the
following types:
        (1) One "T" shaped post sign subject to the following requirements:
         (A) Such sign shall be a maximum of nine (9) square feet hanging from a "T" shaped mounting
post;
         (B) Such sign shall be set back from the property line not less than five feet (5');
        (C) Such sign shall be allowed, without necessity of a permit, for the duration of the property's
sale, lease, rent, or auction.
    (2) One yard sign subject to the following requirements:
         (A) The maximum area of each such signs shall be four (4) square feet;
         (B) The maximum height of such signs shall be three feet (3');

                                                      27
       (C) Such sign shall be set back from the property line not less than five feet (5'); and
        (D) Such sign shall be allowed, without necessity of a permit, for the duration of the property's
sale, lease, rent, or auction.




    b. Properties subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction shall be allowed off site signs as follows:
      (1) Such signs may be used to direct traffic to a residence for sale, lease, rent, or auction.
      (2) Such signs shall be used only when a representative is on duty at the residence for sale,
lease, rent, or auction or the property owner is present at the property for inspection.
      (3) The maximum number of such signs shall be three (3), as follows:
       (A) One sign at the intersection of the arterial or collector street closest in driving distance to
the property; and
       (B) Two (2) signs at intersections leading from the first sign to the property.
      (4) The placement of such signs shall require permission of the owner of properties on which
the signs are to be placed.
      (5) The maximum area of each such signs shall be four (4) square feet.
      (6) The maximum height of such signs shall be three feet (3').
   2. Nonresidentially Zoned Properties: Properties subject to sale, lease, rent, or auction shall be
allowed signs as follows:
    a. Window signs according to the provisions of subsection C1 of this section; or
    b. One freestanding sign for which:
      (1) The maximum area of such sign shall be forty-eight (48) square feet;
      (2) The maximum height of such sign shall be eight feet (8');
      (3) Illumination is by indirect lighting only; and
      (4) Removal is required immediately upon issuance of a sign permit for a new occupant or a
building permit to renovate the subject space.
 F. Political Signs: Political signs may be erected prior to any election without necessity of a permit
subject to the following requirements:
   1. Such signs must be located on private property, with the owner's permission.
   2. Such signs may not be located within any public right of way, public roundabout, or triangular
clear view area.
   3. Such signs are subject to all requirements and provisions of the Utah Code Annotated and other
laws as may be applicable.

                                                    28
 G. Temporary Banner Signs During Period Of Street Construction:
   1. Temporary banner signs may be placed in the public right of way to mark points of ingress and
egress.
  2. The maximum display period for temporary banner signs used during periods of street
construction shall only be for the duration of the construction period.
   3. Businesses may qualify for this exception only if the street construction is materially impairing
the primary access to the business.
  4. Such signs shall be removed within ten (10) business days after construction is done and the
material impairment to the primary access to the business is concluded.
C.       Signs for Municipal Uses


11-22-11: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
To minimize confusion and avoid unfair competitive disadvantage to businesses required to satisfy
the standards of this chapter, the city intends to apply regulation of existing nonconforming signs
with a view toward their eventual elimination. This goal shall be achieved by imposing limits on
change, expansion, alteration, abandonment, and restoration of legally existing nonconforming signs.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of chapter 11-21 of this title regarding
nonconforming uses and structures shall apply to nonconforming signs, except where the terms of
this chapter conflict, in which case the terms of this chapter shall govern.
  A. Legal Nonconforming Signs: A sign legally established prior to the enactment of this chapter
which does not fully comply with the terms of this chapter shall be regarded as a legal nonconforming
sign. Such signs may be continued subject to being properly repaired and maintained, so long as the
existing sign is not expanded in size, relocated, or altered in any way unless the relocation or
alteration brings the sign into compliance with this chapter. The following alterations are exempt
from this provision:
     1. Panel changes for a new business in a legal nonconforming sign; and
   2. Copy changes in nonconforming permanent signs which were originally approved by the city
with a changeable copy feature.
  B. Destroyed Or Damaged Sign: Whenever a legal nonconforming sign is destroyed or damaged by
explosion, fire, windstorm, flood, earthquake, vandalism, act of God, or any other means beyond the
control of the sign owner, such sign may be restored to its exact size and design immediately prior to
its damage or destruction or brought into full and complete compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
    1. Any destroyed or damaged legal nonconforming sign requiring repairs, must be repaired back
to its exact size and design immediately prior to its damage or destruction within one hundred eighty
(180) days. If a destroyed or damaged sign is not repaired within one hundred eighty (180) days it will
be considered abandoned and must be repaired to conform to the provisions of this chapter,
removed, or it may be dealt with or removed as specified under subsection 11-22-5H4 of this chapter.


                                                   29
   2. A sign destroyed or damaged as a result of a public improvement project may be replaced to its
exact size and design immediately prior to its damage or destruction, maintaining its legal
nonconforming status, and all permitting fees shall be waived. Such replacement may also include
relocation. Any such relocation must be to an on-site location fully complying with the terms of this
chapter.
  C. Abandonment: Abandonment of a sign shall occur after one hundred eighty (180) days from the
first issuance of a notice of abandonment from the city. Any nonconforming sign deemed abandoned
must be removed or brought into compliance with this chapter by the property owner. If removal or
compliance does not occur, the city may have the nonconforming sign removed through the
processes specified in subsection 11-22-5H5 of this chapter. An abandoned sign shall not regain any
legal nonconforming status under any circumstance.
 D. Voluntary Conformance Fee Waiver: When any existing legal nonconforming sign is voluntarily
brought into conformance with the provisions of this chapter, all fees associated with application and
permitting procedures for any resulting conforming replacement sign shall be waived by the city. If
multiple signs are to be replaced, only nonconforming signs shall be eligible for the fee waiver.
 E. Signs Rendered Nonconforming By Capital Improvements Projects Or Public Action: Sites
experiencing a reduction in setback for the benefit of a capital improvements project or public action
shall be allowed:
   1. To maintain existing signage as legal nonconforming signage; or
  2. If a sign is altered or required to be relocated by the action, the site shall be allowed the signage
opportunities allowed by this chapter.


11-22-12: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs shall not be permitted, erected, or maintained within the city:
 A. Animated signs or signs with:
   1. Visible moving, revolving, or rotating parts or visible mechanical or electrical movement of any
kind;
   2. The optical illusion of movement or giving the illusion of motion; or
  3. Lights or illumination which flash, move, rotate, blink, flicker, or use intermittent electrical
pulsations;
  B. Strings of light bulbs other than that needed to illuminate outdoor seating or patio areas or
traditional holiday decorations during a holiday season, applicable to nonresidential uses only;
 C. Signs which:
  1. Emit or are designed to emit sound, steam, or smoke intended to attract attention, by any
means;
   2. Involve the use of live or preserved animals; or
   3. Create unsafe glare;

                                                    30
 D. Any sign determined to be abandoned or illegal;
 E. Any sign which is installed or erected in or projects into or over any public or private right of way,
park strips, medians, or roundabouts, except as expressly permitted by the terms of this chapter;
  F. Signs not permanently affixed or attached to the ground or to any structure except for temporary
signs expressly permitted by this chapter;
  G. Any sign or sign structure which constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
installation, maintenance, or dilapidation;
 H. Any sign or sign structure which:
   1. In any way obstructs the view of, may be confused with, or purports to be an official traffic sign,
signal, or device or any other traffic control, warning, or public safety device; or
   2. Creates an unsafe distraction for or obstructs the view of vehicle operators entering a public
roadway from any parking area, service drive, private driveway, alley, or other thoroughfare;
 I. Any sign which obstructs the free ingress to or egress from any door, window, fire escape, or other
building entrance or exitway;
 J. Any sign with a changeable or removable text or panel feature, except where specifically allowed
by the provisions of this chapter;
 K. Off premises advertising signs or any other sign not pertinent and clearly incidental to the
permitted use on the property where located, except as expressly provided for elsewhere in this
chapter, title, or approved development agreement;
 L. Portable signs or signs not otherwise permanently affixed to any structure on the site,
permanently mounted to the ground, or otherwise located on one or more wheels;
  M. Signs for the purpose of general outdoor advertising of products or services, or signs advertising
a use, service or attraction not located in the city, except as provided for elsewhere in this chapter,
title, or approved development agreement;
  N. Flags, banners, pennants or strings of pennants, wind or forced air powered signs, or other
devices designed or allowed to wave, flap, or rotate with the wind except for flags, pennants, and
insignias expressly permitted by this chapter;
 O. Banners of any size for which a temporary sign permit has not been issued according to this
chapter;
 P. Inflatables, unless expressly permitted by this chapter;
 Q. Roof mounted signs or signs which project above the roofline or the bottom of the eaves of a
building whichever is lower, but signs within a gable shall not be considered above the eaves and, for
the purpose of this subsection, dormers shall not be considered a permissible gable area for signage;
 R. Sign of an advertising nature posted or glued directly on an exterior wall, roof or affixed directly
on the same by any means of a similar adhesive substance. No paper, cloth, vinyl, or other nonrigid
material sign, except for flags as provided for elsewhere in this chapter, shall be tacked directly on any
exterior wall, or roof, except those allowed as temporary signs as defined elsewhere in this chapter;

                                                    31
 T. Graffiti;
 U. Handbills and snipe signs;
 V. Business signs in residential and agricultural zones, or on properties containing a residential use
except as expressly permitted in this chapter for an operating and licensed home occupation or
commercial use on the same property;
 W. Any sign not in compliance with this chapter or any applicable provisions of this title;
 X. Any sign type not expressly permitted by this chapter;
  Y. Electronic message center signs containing video animation, flashing, or the appearance of
movement of any kind, but this provision does not prohibit electronic message center signs operating
in accordance with this chapter; and
 Z. Portable signs within any public or private right of way, sidewalks, park strips, medians, or
roundabouts.
 AA.    Bench signs.
BB. Sculpture signs including reproductions of products, actual products, statuary or other objects
representing a product, location, service or entity.
11-22-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, part or provision of this chapter is held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or
unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this chapter, and all sections, parts and
provisions of this chapter shall be severable.


11-22-14: NONAPPURTENANT ADVERTISING STRUCTURES (BILLBOARDS):
Nonappurtenant advertising structures (billboards) shall be permitted within four hundred fifty feet
(450') of the nearest edge of the Interstate I-15 right of way in the light industrial (I-1) zone and shall be
erected and maintained only in conformance with the following provisions:
  A. Maximum Area: Each nonappurtenant advertising structure may have a maximum area of six
hundred seventy five (675) square feet per face.

 B. Maximum Height: Notwithstanding any contrary provisions in this chapter, nonappurtenant
advertising structures, including nonconforming nonappurtenant advertising structures, may have a
maximum height of thirty five feet (35') measured from the surface of the nearest traveled lane of the
adjacent public street, or of the nearest traveled lane of Interstate 15 if the nonappurtenant
advertising structure is within four hundred fifty feet (450') of the Interstate 15 right of way, whichever
is greater.

 C. Location: All such nonappurtenant advertising structures shall be located behind the line of the
required front yard setback of the zone in which it is located and a minimum of four hundred feet
(400') from the nearest residential zone. The nonappurtenant advertising structures shall also be
spaced with a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') maintained between each nonappurtenant
advertising structure measured in any direction.

                                                     32
 D. Number Of Sign Faces Permitted: Each nonappurtenant advertising structure shall be limited to
one sign face, except that two (2) sign faces may be permitted when said faces are mounted back to
back with the faces in parallel planes at distances not exceeding four feet (4') apart; or that two (2)
sign faces may also be permitted when the faces are mounted in a "V" configuration, when said faces
are attached on one end and have a maximum distance of thirty feet (30') apart at the other end. Two
(2) sign faces may also be permitted if the total area of two (2) is not greater than the maximum area
for one face, if both faces were originally erected together.

 E. Materials And Construction: All nonappurtenant advertising structures shall be constructed of
materials prescribed by the international building code, and construction techniques shall be
approved by the building official. All said nonappurtenant advertising structures must be issued a
building permit prior to construction.

 F. Maintenance: The owner or persons in control shall be responsible for maintaining such
nonappurtenant advertising structures, including border, trims, faces, weight bearing and bracing
structures, and surrounding grounds or environment in a litter free and safe manner. Signs shall not
be allowed to deteriorate and must be repaired or removed.

  G. Upgrade Of Nonappurtenant Advertising Structures: Notwithstanding any contrary provisions in
this chapter, a nonappurtenant advertising structure, including a nonconforming, nonappurtenant
advertising structure, may be modified to include an electronic display. Upgrade to an electronic
display shall not affect a nonconforming, nonappurtenant advertising structure's status as a
nonconforming use or a nonconforming structure.
    1. The applicant must submit a complete building permit application in accordance with
subsection 11-22-4A of this chapter.
    2. The nonappurtenant advertising structure must be located within four hundred fifty feet (450')
of the nearest edge of the I-15 right of way and located no closer than one thousand feet (1,000') from
another nonappurtenant advertising structure with an electronic display oriented to the same
direction of traffic on I-15.
    3. A nonappurtenant advertising structure located within a zoning district that allows residential
uses shall not be upgraded to include an electronic display.
    4. Upgrade to an electronic display sign may not increase a nonappurtenant advertising
structure's size of its display area.
    5. The electronic display may occupy the entire display area of the sign.
    6. The electronic display may use any method of illumination identified in section 11-2-2 of this
title, or a similar technology approved by the zoning administrator.
    7. All electronic display signs shall comply with the following illumination requirements:
      a. All electronic display signs shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that automatically
determines the ambient illumination and is programmed to automatically dim according to ambient
light conditions, or that can be adjusted to comply with the 0.3 foot-candle measurements set forth in
subsection G7b of this section. In addition, electronic display signs must have a default mechanism to
hold constant static image or turn off the sign within twenty four (24) hours of a reported malfunction
that causes the display to violate these illumination requirements.


                                                   33
     b. Sign illumination levels for electronic display signs shall never operate at a brightness
intensity to exceed 0.3 foot- candle over ambient lighting conditions when measured at the distance
set forth in subsection G7e of this section. Light cutoff devices shall minimize light above the sign.
     c. The illuminance of an electronic display sign shall be measured with an illuminance meter set
to measure foot-candles accurate to at least two (2) decimals. Illuminance shall be measured with the
electronic display sign off, and again with the electronic display sign displaying a white image for a full
color capable electronic display sign, or a solid message for a single color electronic display sign. All
measurements shall be taken perpendicular to the face of the electronic display sign at the distance
determined by the total square footage of the electronic display sign, as set forth in subsection G7e of
this section.
     d. The application shall include a written certification from the sign manufacturer, showing that
the electronic display sign is properly equipped and will be configured upon installation to meet the
requirements of this subsection G7.
     e. Measurement distance for electronic display signs:


 Area Of Sign             Measurement Distance
  0 - 100 square feet     100 feet
  101 - 350 square feet 150 feet
  351 - 650 square feet 200 feet
  Over 650 square feet    250 feet


    8. The interval between message changes on an electronic display shall not be more frequent than
eight (8) seconds and the actual message rotation process must be accomplished in one second or
less.
    9. Electronic display sign faces which contain, include, or are illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent, full motion video, scrolling, strobing, racing, blinking, changes in color, fade in or fade
out, or any other imitation of movement or motion, or any other means not providing constant
illumination, are prohibited.
    10. The text, images and graphics of the electronic display sign shall be static and complete within
themselves, without continuation in content to the next image or message, or to any other sign.
    11. Any sign face upgraded under this subsection that is located within three hundred fifty feet
(350'), measured from the electronic display face to a residential dwelling, hotel, motel, hospital, or
similar commercial or institutional facility where overnight or transient lodging occurs, and oriented
toward a legally occupied residential dwelling, hotel, motel, hospital, or similar commercial or
institutional facility where overnight or transient lodging occurs, shall be required to adhere to the
curfew described below:
     a. If a nonappurtenant advertising structure with an electronic display face is within three
hundred fifty feet (350') of a legally occupied dwelling, hotel, motel, hospital, or similar commercial or
institutional facility where overnight or transient lodging occurs that is within a forty five degree (45°)
radius area measured from the center point of the electronic display face, then this electronic display
face shall display only one static illuminated message nightly from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.;
     b. If a nonappurtenant advertising structure with an electronic display face is within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of a legally occupied dwelling, hotel, motel, hospital, or similar commercial or

                                                    34
institutional facility where overnight or transient lodging occurs that is within a ninety degree (90°)
radius area measured from the center point of the electronic display face, then this electronic display
face shall be shut off nightly from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M.; and
     c. The curfew conditions set forth in this subsection G11 are not applicable if the message
displayed is an emergency public safety warning or alert, such as an AMBER alert.
   12. This subsection G does not authorize the location of a new nonappurtenant advertising
structure in a location not permitted or allowed under the existing and applicable ordinances. (Ord.
2015-13, 10-28-2015)


…

Site Plan Application Requirements

11-15-030(B)(1)

o. Description of master sign program, pursuant to the requirements of 11-22-5(A)

…

For Home Occupations

11-23-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:

…

14. Signs shall be limited to one nonflashing sign no larger in area than two (2) square feet 1

…

1       1. See also subsection 11-22-8I11-22-7(B)(1) of this title.


…



Proposed changes to the consolidated fee schedule:




                                                    35
