                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   Present:
 2
 3   Members:        Debbie Cragun
 4                   Kory Luker
 5                   Johnny Loumis, Jr.
 6                   Ulises Flynn
 7                   Erik Swanson
 8                   Tina Griffis
 9
10   Staff:          Jennifer Robison, Senior City Planner
11                   Ellen Oakman, Associate City Planner
12                   Dan Tracer, Assistant City Engineer
13                   Courtney Peterson, AV Technician
14                   Kjersti Jarman, Development Coordinator
15
16   Public:         Casey Forbush
17
18   Chair Debbie Cragun called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
19
20   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING
21
22   1.       Roll Call.
23
24   All members of the Planning Commission were present.
25
26   2.       Invocation/Thought/Reading and Pledge of Allegiance.
27
28   Johnny Loumis, Jr. offered the invocation. Ulises Flynn led the Pledge of Allegiance.
29
30   3.       Approval of the Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from July 6, 2022.
31
32   Erik Swanson moved to APPROVE the minutes from the July 6, 2022, meeting of the
33   Planning Commission. Ulises Flynn seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Johnny Loumis,
34   Jr.-Aye; Ulises Flynn-Aye; Erik Swanson-Aye; Kory Luker-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye. The
35   motion passed unanimously. Alternate Planning Commission Member Tina Griffis did not
36   participate in the vote.
37




                                                      1
                              DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                              BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   Administrative Items:
 2
 3   4.     CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Site Plan Application for a Property
 4          Management Sales/Leasing Office in the MU Zone Located at Approximately 15542
 5          South Plentiful Way, Banner Hill LLC, Applicants (Application 2022-29). Staff
 6          Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
 7
 8   Senior City Planner, Jennifer Robison, presented the staff report and stated that the City Council did
 9   text amendment work to the MU Zone to allow a property management sales and leasing office. A
10   size limit of 500 square feet was attached to the text amendment with the proviso that the building
11   would be detached and be used as an accessory to the already-permitted uses of townhomes. The
12   text amendment was intended to provide a small sales/leasing office for the product in Banner Hill
13   and other units within the Independence area, such as the Rockwell Village project and Banner Hill
14   West. The office is centrally located and makes it unnecessary to use a townhome unit as the
15   sales/leasing office.    The City Council approved the text amendments based on the positive
16   recommendation from the Planning Commission on May 11, 2022. The applicants were now
17   requesting approval of the site plan. The Planning Commission is the Land Use Authority for this
18   site plan application.
19
20   Mrs. Robison identified where the proposed facility will be located. She then reviewed the layout
21   of the proposed site plan. There will be landscaping and adequate parking for the property. The
22   proposed building will be 470 square feet in size and will include a sales office and restroom. It
23   was found to meet the site plan standards of the City.
24
25   In response to a question raised by Chair Cragun, Mrs. Robison confirmed that since the building
26   will be for sales and leasing some of the units will be rentals and some will be for sale. Chair
27   Cragun also sought confirmation that since the building will be permanent, there will be an ongoing
28   need for the facility. Mrs. Robison responded that since there will be rental units, the need will be
29   ongoing.
30
31   Commissioner Swanson was surprised that it had taken so long for such a building to be thought of
32   since he considered it to be a practical idea.
33

                                                       2
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   The applicant, Casey Forbush gave his address as 4894 West Mossley Bend in Herriman and
 2   complimented Mrs. Robison on her presentation. He commented that it would be nice to have the
 3   facility so that a townhome unit will not have to be dedicated to a sales/leasing office. It will be an
 4   attractive building.
 5
 6   Ulises Flynn moved to APPROVE the Property Management Sales/Leasing Office Site Plan
 7   Application, Application 2022-29, subject to the following:
 8
 9   Conditions:
10
11          1.      That all requirements of the City Code adopted ordinances, and the
12                  Independence at the Point Project Plan are met and adhered to for the
13                  application.
14
15          2.      That the site plan complies with the Bluffdale City Engineering Standards and
16                  Specifications and recommendations by the City Engineer and Public Works
17                  Department for all relevant construction and plat drawings.
18
19          3.      That all construction drawings be approved and stamped by the City Engineer
20                  prior to any construction of improvements if needed.
21
22          4.      That the project adheres to all requirements of the International Fire Code.
23
24          5.      That all private open space, landscaping, and parking areas be owned and
25                  maintained by the Homeowners Association (HOA) and improvements installed
26                  as per the approved plan.
27
28   Erik Swanson seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Johnny Loumis, Jr.-Aye; Ulises Flynn-
29   Aye; Erik Swanson-Aye; Kory Luker-Aye; Debbie Cragun-Aye.                       The motion passed
30   unanimously. Alternate Planning Commissioner, Tina Griffis, did not participate in the vote.
31




                                                       3
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   5.     Planning Commissioners HB-409 Training on Subdivision Requirements and
 2          Processes. Staff Presenters: Ellen Oakman, Associate Planner; Jennifer Robison,
 3          Senior Planner; and Dan Tracer, Assistant City Engineer.
 4
 5   Associate Planner, Ellen Oakman, conducted the training session. She first read the definition of
 6   “Subdivision” as stated in State Code. She then read the definition provided by the Utah League of
 7   Cities and Towns (“ULCT”). Ms. Oakman next reviewed the process for proposing and creating a
 8   subdivision. The process includes such items as traffic studies, geotechnical studies, water shares,
 9   plats, civil plans, drainage reports, title reports, and utilities. For new subdivisions, there must be a
10   Preliminary and a Final Plat. Amended plats are also an option in the event a lot line or other
11   change needs to be made. Staff reviews the proposals to make sure they are complete with
12   Engineering. Once the subdivision is approved, staff assists with the recording of the mylar, which
13   is a document that is made of a clear, strong polyester film or plastic. Staff also helps coordinate
14   obtaining the Geographic Information System (“GIS”) layer superimposed on the map.
15
16   The creation of a subdivision begins in a Development Review Committee (“DRC”) meeting to
17   consider the viability of the proposed subdivision. Once the review period is complete and the
18   proposal is deemed viable, the City Engineer stamps the plans and forwards them to the mylar
19   recording process.
20
21   Mrs. Robison said that the Planning Commission has seen many subdivision proposals over the
22   years. Even though the County might record the property, State Code specifies that final approval
23   of the subdivision must occur at the municipality level. Once proper approval has been granted, the
24   subdivision can be created. There are past instances where subdivisions have been created without
25   going through the legal processes. Even now, there may be an instance of someone creating a
26   subdivision without going through the prescribed processes. However, those situations are typically
27   caught when the property owner applies for a building permit. Mrs. Robison said it is vital that
28   people get proper approvals so that all of the logistical details and land dedications for open space
29   or rights-of-way can be ensured.
30
31   Ms. Oakman stated that when people call to inquire about subdividing a piece of property, the first
32   thing staff does is look at City Code to determine the minimum lot size requirement of the zoning of

                                                        4
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   the subject property. Sometimes, when people realize how onerous the subdividing process can be,
 2   they will opt not to subdivide their property.
 3
 4   Assistant City Engineer, Dan Tracer, reported that one of the most common issues the City deals
 5   with is infill lots where people might have the total acreage needed, but the original lot was created
 6   with a very odd shape, which results in issues such as exceeding the allowable number of properties
 7   that can have a shared driveway.         If there are too many homes on a shared driveway, a
 8   determination must be made as to whether it will be a private street.            If that is the case,
 9   responsibility for construction and maintenance of the street must be established. Utilities can also
10   pose a problem because the proper easements may not have been recorded to provide the legal
11   authority for the water and sewer lines to be at the property. Irrigation lines pose a frequent
12   problem, as well.
13
14   Ms. Oakman next reviewed the main types of applications involved with subdivisions:
15
16      ▪   Preliminary Subdivision;
17      ▪   Final Subdivision; and
18      ▪   Amended Subdivision.
19
20   Sometimes people can submit both the Preliminary and Final Subdivision applications at the same
21   time because the Preliminary Subdivision application is heavily front-loaded with copious detail
22   required.   Therefore, the Final Subdivision application can piggyback on the Preliminary
23   Subdivision. Bluffdale City has opted to include public hearings with the Planning Commission for
24   a Preliminary Subdivision because the Preliminary Subdivision application is an administrative
25   approval to verify that the applicant has met all the requirements. If a subdivision has 10 or fewer
26   lots, the Land Use Authority can be a Hearing Officer. Bluffdale City still has all subdivision
27   applications that come before the Planning Commission as the Land Use Authority. Once the
28   Preliminary Subdivision application is approved, Staff takes care of the remaining details for
29   approval of the Final Subdivision Plat, which is then signed by the Zoning Administrator, which is
30   City Planner/Economic Development Director, Grant Crowell.
31
32   Ms. Oakman briefly described the elements of an Amended Subdivision Application.
                                                       5
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1
 2   Ms. Oakman reported that Titles 11 and 12 of the City Code are the key areas that pertain to the
 3   details of the subdivision approval process. She emphasized the importance of the zoning of the
 4   subject property as it relates to the creation of a subdivision.        Mrs. Robison added that the
 5   requirements of the zone include such things as lot size, lot frontage, lot width, setback
 6   requirements, and all other requirements specified within the zone.
 7
 8   Ms. Oakman reviewed a sample plat to illustrate the elements of a subdivision application. It is
 9   vital to get the details right to begin with because the documentation becomes an important
10   historical record for future reference.
11
12   In response to Chair Cragun’s question as to how she would subdivide a piece of property she owns,
13   Ms. Oakman stated that the first step would be to hire an engineer to facilitate work with the City.
14   Mr. Tracer explained that hiring an engineering firm is important because there are details involved
15   that a typical property owner would not have the expertise to take care of all the requirements
16   properly. Surveyors, civil engineers, geotechnical experts, and drainage experts are just some of the
17   people that would be involved with this complex process. The process can be very time-consuming
18   and expensive to do right. Mr. Tracer stated that many of the engineering firms that are involved
19   are understaffed currently, which protracts the time frame of the process. That staffing challenge
20   extends to the construction suppliers, as well, which makes it difficult for contractors.
21
22   Commissioner Loumis noted that when he did his development, he went to 26 different State
23   agencies, which took him 10 years.
24
25   Ms. Oakman next displayed a City map, which according to Mrs. Robison, has every subdivision
26   shown on it. As long as a lot has been a legal lot, it can qualify for a Building Permit. Some
27   properties have not yet been subdivided.
28
29   Mrs. Robison stated that the most important thing a subdivision does is to create a legal description
30   of the property.    It also provides an opportunity to determine what other elements might be
31   necessary, such as a detention pond for drainage. It also creates the address for each lot, as
32   determined by the County. For cul-de-sacs, the subdivision plat includes the assurance that the lot
                                                        6
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   widths and setbacks meet City Code before a building permit can be issued. A surveyor’s map
 2   specifies the lot boundaries. An owner’s dedication must be signed and notarized. The City Land
 3   Use Authority must also sign off on the subdivision plat. That would be the Zoning Administrator
 4   or the Planning Commission Chair. The public utilities must also certify the easements that provide
 5   permission to place the utilities on the property. The Sewer District must approve the proposal and
 6   the Board of Health also needs to verify that the City will provide culinary water. The City
 7   Attorney must approve everything, after reviewing the Title Report to ensure there are no
 8   encumbrances attached to the property.
 9
10   Ms. Oakman noted that even toward the end of the process, there may be a problem with the Title
11   Report for one reason or another.
12
13   Mr. Tracer provided technical training from an engineering perspective. He reviewed a situation
14   that consisted of a site plan instead of a subdivision. The subject property he referenced is located
15   next to Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Freedom Point Way. It has been referred to as “the sore
16   thumb.” It is the site that Holiday Oil is interested in, having purchased the entire site. It will
17   include a gas station and a car wash. The project is being delayed by ubiquitous supply-chain
18   issues. When a project is proposed, the Master Plan is reviewed to determine the compatibility of
19   the proposal with the Master Plan. The project has hastened the widening of Pony Express Road
20   and a second connection to Porter Rockwell Boulevard because it fits within the Transportation
21   Master Plan. Several details would need to be determined prior to the construction of the road. The
22   City is working on a Cost Sharing Agreement with Holiday Oil to construct the road.
23
24   Commissioner Flynn asked how wide the road will be. He had a specific interest since he lives in
25   the area. Mr. Tracer responded that there will be four lanes including turn lanes at the intersection.
26   300 feet past the first access the road will change to two lanes with a bike lane. The width will be
27   35 to 40 feet. In response to Commissioner Flynn’s inquiry about an orange spot on the map,
28   Mr. Tracer stated that it was a stormwater pond. Mrs. Robison reported that the stormwater pond
29   was intended to be a temporary solution until the drainage can be connected to the storm drain
30   system when it became available.
31
                                                       7
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   Mrs. Robison stated that if Holiday Oil purchases the entire piece of property, they will not be
 2   required to subdivide the property. If they sell or lease a piece of property, they will need to
 3   subdivide. That scenario is typical of commercial property. Mr. Tracer indicated that infrastructure
 4   details must be determined as part of subdividing property.
 5
 6   Commissioner Loumis noted that this was good training to help the Planning Commission better
 7   understand and vet subdivision applications. He added that it would help him with his work as a
 8   developer.
 9
10   Ms. Oakman concluded by stating that the key takeaway is that creating a subdivision is a very
11   detailed and time-consuming process.
12
13   Discussion Items
14
15   6.     Planning Commission Business (Planning Session for Upcoming Items, Follow Up,
16          Etc.)
17
18   Mrs. Robison reported that the City Council canceled its meeting scheduled for July 13. The next
19   Planning Commission Meeting will be on August 17, due to Old West Days.
20
21   Mrs. Robison stated that August 25 will be the opening and ribbon cutting of Porter Rockwell
22   Boulevard. It will be an exciting event to attend. It will run from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. There will be a
23   parking area on Porter Rockwell Boulevard since it will be closed.
24   The Day Ranch Park is under construction.
25
26   Commissioner Loumis commented that there has been a lot of speeding on Loumis Parkway. There
27   is not a Traffic Officer assigned currently, so perhaps the City Council could consider that need.
28   Mrs. Robison stated that the City Council is aware of the situation. Also, there is a Truth in
29   Taxation Hearing in August for the City Council to consider adding more personnel to the Fire and
30   Police Departments. Commissioner Loumis suggested that the City Council also consider installing
31   mirrors at the bend of Loumis Parkway before it gets to Bangerter Highway. People get out of their
32   lanes and they are traveling faster than 25 MPH. The mirrors would allow drivers to see oncoming



                                                      8
                               DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                               BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                       Wednesday, July 20, 2022

 1   traffic.    Mr. Tracer agreed to pass that suggestion on to the New Engineer, who is also a
 2   Transportation Specialist.
 3
 4   The notice for the Truth in Taxation Hearing was to be placed on the City website and in the
 5   newsletter. It was scheduled for Tuesday, August 16 at 7:00 p.m.
 6
 7   Commissioner Loumis added that there is a strong need for better lighting on Loumis Parkway. He
 8   and his son would be willing to have the light poles placed on their property.
 9
10   7.         Adjournment.
11
12   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.
13
14
15
16   __________________________________
17   Kjersti Jarman, Development Coordinator
18
19   Approved: _________________________




                                                       9
                       2222 West 14400 South  Bluffdale, Utah 84065  (801) 254-2200
                                   Community Development Department
                                             Planning Division


                                             STAFF REPORT
                                             12 August 2022

To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Grant Crowell, Community and Economic Development Director

Re: Text Amendment to The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District (SD-X)
        Application No:     2022-34
        Applicant:          LH Perry Investments, LLC
        Project Location:   533 W 14600 S (SW Corner of Porter Rockwell Boulevard and 14600 S)
        General Plan:       Mixed Use
        Zoning:             MU-Mixed Use* (*with associated development agreement)
        Acreage:            Approximately 6.7 acres
        Request:            To modify the maximum number of apartments from 236 to 252 units; to
                            clarify the use of architectural concrete on the residential structure; and to
                            update associated exhibits and development agreement accordingly.

SUMMARY
On January 12, 2022, the City Council approved The Centrum at Bluffdale Mixed Use Special District (SD-X)
and associated Development Agreement. This approval created a new zoning ordinance chapter in the
Bluffdale City Code (BCC) which included regulations, approved uses, conceptual layouts and architectural
elevations for a mixed use project. 236 apartment units – limited to one and two bedrooms – were
approved in the development, along with general retail uses and pads. This approval also replaced an
industrial land use designation in a previously approved development agreement.

After commencing the final technical design work for construction, the property owners indicated that
there was more square footage available in the residential structure than originally anticipated to
accommodate housing units and parking spaces. Due to this, they have applied to increase the number of
allowed apartment units to 252 – a 16 unit increase. Additionally, their design team has requested to
clarify the use and application of formed and patterned concrete in the exterior finish of the parking
structure levels of the residential apartment building.

Finally, as the Development Agreement for the project has the entire SD-X zoning chapter as an exhibit, an
amendment to replace that exhibit with the new proposed language and exhibits is necessary (if
approved).

ANALYSIS
Anticipated Uses, Layout and Access. This proposal does not change proposed site accesses or layout of the
project. The only proposed change to the land use is to be allowed 252 apartment units, rather than the
originally approved 236.

                                                                    The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
                                                                     August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                           Page 1
Public Facilities and Infrastructure. The original approval analyzed the traffic and access impact of the
project and what improvements and rights of way were necessary on Rising Star Way to accommodate the
traffic generated by the project. The applicant has provided a memo from their traffic engineer, Hales
Engineering, that indicates that the additional 16 units do not require additional improvements or
mitigations from those required in the original approval (attached). Timing for a traffic signal on Porter
Rockwell Boulevard and Rising Star Way is a UDOT decision; UDOT has acknowledged the location of a
future signal on Rising Star Way in a corridor agreement with the City of Bluffdale, when warranted. In
Bluffdale, this site location is the closest to high capacity transportation corridors (14600 S, PRB, I-15), and
potential future transit locations within The Point (former prison site which will be under construction
soon).




                                                                       The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
                                                                        August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                              Page 2
The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
 August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                       Page 3
Parking. Parking for the apartments remains at two spaces per unit, which meets the current requirements
found in BCC 11.120.030 Table A for one or two bedroom units. The applicants have indicated 504 stalls
available for the residential units on their updated parking plan exhibit. Most of this parking is proposed to
be in an enclosed parking structure, with a few spaces adjacent to the apartment building on the east side.
The minimum parking for the commercial area in the zoning code is five spaces per 1,000 square feet, but
the conceptual site plans show 138 parking spaces, which is over seven units per 1,000 square feet, based


                                                                     The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
                                                                      August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                            Page 4
on approximately 17,550 of retail leasable space. As exact uses and tenants haven’t been identified for the
commercial area at this time, the ordinance language requires that parking sufficiency is evaluated and
verified during site plan review and approval. Language has been updated in the draft code to clarify the
minimum number of parking spaces for the proposed units and that they shall not be utilized in calculating
commercial parking minimums.




Elevations and Materials. Extensive work on the architectural elevations has been done since the original
approval. Exhibits have been updated to reflect this design work. The main clarification requested by the
applicant is to utilize formed and patterned concrete to a greater extent on the exterior elevations of the
parking levels of the residential structures. This allows the finish details to be applied during the concrete
work rather than applied on top of it and is a common method in this type of construction. Accent
materials, which meet the original ordinance requirements, are still present in the exterior elevations.




                                                                      The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
                                                                       August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                             Page 5
The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
 August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                       Page 6
The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
 August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                       Page 7
The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
 August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                       Page 8
Zoning Text Updates and Development Agreement Language. The updated draft zoning ordinance
language is attached to this report. The amended development agreement language will simply refer to
the amended zoning ordinance as an exhibit; that language will be finalized by the City Attorney as part of
the City Council review and approval process.

RECOMMENDATION ON PROPOSED ZONING TEXT AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS

This is a legislative action by the City which requires a recommendation by the Planning Commission to the
City Council. Staff advises the Planning Commission to provide adequate supportive findings in their
recommendation.


MODEL MOTIONS FOR THE SPECIAL DISTRICT ORDINANCE TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENT APPLICATION:

Motion for a Positive Recommendation – “I move we forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council for the SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District Zoning and Development Agreement
Amendments, Application 2022-34, based on the following findings (or modified language):”
        1.      List all findings for a positive recommendation:



Motion for a Negative Recommendation – “I move we forward a negative recommendation to the City
Council for the SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District Zoning and Development Agreement
Amendments, Application 2022-34, based on the following findings:”
        1.      List all findings for a negative recommendation:




                                                                    The Centrum at Bluffdale SD-X Text Amendment
                                                                     August 17, 2022, Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                           Page 9
                                     MEMORANDUM

Date:         August 1, 2022
                                                                            NO. 12894535
To:           Matthew Swain                                                  Joseph S.
                                                                              Browning
                                                                               08/01/2022
From:         Hales Engineering


Subject:      Bluffdale MXD Trip Generation Memo
                                                                                            UT21-1841

This memorandum discusses the trip generation completed for the addition of 16 apartment units
to the proposed MXD development in Bluffdale, Utah. A vicinity map of the proposed development
is shown in Figure 1.




           Figure 1: Vicinity map of the proposed development in Bluffdale, Utah



                      1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                     www.halesengineering.com
Background

The proposed MXD development is on the southwest corner of the Porter Rockwell Boulevard
(S.R. 131) / 14600 South (S.R. 140) intersection. The developer is adding 16 additional apartment
units, and the purpose of this memorandum is to identify the trip generation from these additional
units.

Trip Generation

Trip generation for the development was calculated using trip generation rates published in the
Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation (10th Edition, 2017). The 10th Edition
was used to be consistent with the traffic impact study. Trip generation for the additional units is
included in Table 1.

As shown in Table 1, it is anticipated that the 16 additional units will generate approximately 86
trips on an average weekday, including 6 trips during the morning peak hour, and 8 trips during
the evening peak hour.
                                                                    Table 1: Trip Generation
                                                                                 Trip Generation
                                                               Bluffdale - MXD Trip Generation memo
Weekday Daily                                                    # of
                                                                                 Unit Type
                                                                                                          Trip       %       %        Trips      Trips    Total New
                          Land Use1                             Units                                  Generation Entering Exiting   Entering   Exiting   Daily Trips
  Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) (221)                            16           Dwelling Units               86      50%     50%        43         43          86
  Total                                                                                                     86                         43         43          86
Morning Peak Hour                                                # of
                                                                                 Unit Type
                                                                                                          Trip       %       %        Trips      Trips    Total New
                          Land Use1                             Units                                  Generation Entering Exiting   Entering   Exiting    AM Trips
  Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) (221)                            16           Dwelling Units               6       26%     74%         2         4           6
  Total                                                                                                     6                           2         4           6
Evening Peak Hour                                                # of
                                                                                 Unit Type
                                                                                                          Trip       %       %        Trips      Trips    Total New
                          Land Use1                             Units                                  Generation Entering Exiting   Entering   Exiting    PM Trips
  Multifamily Housing (Mid-Rise) (221)                            16           Dwelling Units               8       61%     39%         5         3           8
  Total                                                                                                     8                           5         3           8
1. Land Use Code from the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip Generation ,10th Edition,2017.

SOURCE: Hales Engineering, August 2022



Because the number of peak hour trips is relatively small, it is not anticipated that the additional
units will have a significant impact on the surrounding roadway network.

Conclusions

The findings of this study are as follows:
   • The proposed development is adding 16 apartment units to what had been planned
       previously.




                                            1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043                                  p 801.766.4343
                                                           www.halesengineering.com
   •   It is anticipated that the additional units will generate approximately 16 trips on an average
       weekday, including 6 trips during the morning peak hour, and 8 trips during the evening
       peak hour. These are the trips that will use the project access points.
   •   It is not anticipated that these trips will have a significant impact on the surrounding
       roadway network.

If you have any questions regarding this memorandum, please contact us at 801.766.4343.




                       1220 North 500 West, Ste. 202 Lehi, UT 84043   p 801.766.4343
                                      www.halesengineering.com
     SECTION 1:         AMENDMENT “11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.110.130.040 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

    A. Appearance: The SD-X Zone requires specific development standards and regulations that
       apply to The Centrum at Bluffdale. The purpose is to develop standards that will enhance the
       overall appearance of the neighborhood.
    B. Conflicts: Design guidelines, standards, and specifications adopted in this SD-X Zone that
       differ from existing adopted codes and standards shall supersede unless there is a compelling,
       countervailing public interest or they do not comply with adopted fire and building codes.
       Standards and adopted codes not specifically modified by this SD-X zone shall be governed
       by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.
    C. Conceptual in Nature: The Centrum at Bluffdale Special District presents a conceptual layout
       and does not constitute site plan approval. Formal site plan approval is required for all phases
       of development within the Centrum at Bluffdale Special District.
    D. General Standards.
             1. Public utility easements shall meet Bluffdale City Standards.
             2. No trash, used materials, unsightly storage of any kind, or non-licensed or abandoned
                 vehicles shall be stored in this SD zone.
             3. Dumpster enclosures shall be architecturally designed and screened per adopted
                 standards in BCC, and approved during site plan review.
    E. Residential Standards:
             1. The apartment building is allowed to be six stories (four stories of housing above two stories of
                 structured parking) and up to eighty (80) feet in height.
             2. Residential building location is allowed as depicted on the conceptual site plan, with no
                 specific setback requirement, and shall be approved during the site plan review process.
                 Location shall comply with all adopted building and fire codes and accommodate required
                 utility easements, right of way requirements, and emergency access, and all other applicable
                 provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.
             3. Two parking spaces are required for each dwelling unit which may be located within a fully
                 enclosed garage or designated in a parking lot adjacent to the residential structure.
             4. No apartment unit shall exceed two bedrooms.
             5. Architectural Design Guidelines: Consistent with the requirements of the SD-X Zone, The
                 Centrum at Bluffdale requires enhanced architectural elements and features that will result in a
                 residential building that is thematic and include enhancements to visible side and rear facades
                 from either public streets and trails or the private park or trail. The following architectural
                 design guidelines are the minimum standards for residential building which shall also adhere to
                 the design requirements in 11.150 BCC, unless otherwise specifically noted:
                        a. Masonry, brick, fiber cement siding, architectural metal panels, patterned concrete and/or
                           EIFS/stucco systems shall be used on all exterior walls. No vinyl siding shall be permitted.
                           Maximum amount of EIFs/stucco is 25% on any one facade.
                        b. CPatterned or formed architectural concrete may be utilized as a primary exterior material on
                           the parking lot levels of the residential structure, pursuant to the conceptual exterior elevations
                           presented in Exhibits 6-15(XX). Brick and other allowed accent materials are still required to
                           be utilized in these levels.
                                (1) Examples of types of acceptable concrete patterns or forms:




                                                              Page 1
                c. Where masonry is used on the front exterior at corners, it shall be wrapped around to the side
                   exterior a minimum of twenty-four inches (24").
      6. The Centrum at Bluffdale shall be landscaped in accordance with the City’s standards for
         water efficiency, percentage of parking lot landscaping, tree, shrub, and ground cover
         requirements, irrigation design, and the overall site percentages approved in this SD-X zone.
      7. Street trees, which are shade providing species, not ornamental varietals, shall be planted and
         maintained in compliance with City standards in all park strips and adjacent to the trail area.
         Where a parkstrip doesn’t exist or allow for street trees due to utility or other engineering
         conflicts, street trees shall be placed as close to the sidewalk as possible . These trees shall be
         installed pursuant to the approved site plan prior the issuance of a certificate of occupancy and
         shall be maintained by the Owner. In times of inclement weather and lack of availability,
         landscaping installation may be temporarily suspended pursuant to BCC 11.150.050(A)(16).
         The Owner shall be responsible for maintaining the park strips and removing snow from the
         sidewalk and trail areas within and adjacent to the project.
      8. Fencing: The consistent and uniform installation of thematic fencing will contribute to the The
         Centrum at Bluffdale sense of neighborhood. The Owner shall install the approved fencing
         along the length of the trail system on the west of the residential building from the building
         corner and the lot rear corner as shown in the conceptual plans. The fence shall be a decorative
         fence no less than six (6) feet in height which is not chain link. The material and color shall be
         determined during the site plan review process. Fencing shall be installed as depicted in Figure
         3 Open Space and Landscape Plan. It shall be the responsibility of the The Centrum at
         Bluffdale Owner to ensure all fencing is maintained and continues to meet the requirements of
         the City.
F. Commercial Location Standards:
      1. Setback Requirements. Commercial buildings and necessary appurtenances for utility
         service may be located as depicted on the concept plan with no specific setback
         requirements. Drive-through lanes shall be screened and buffered from adjacent
         sidewalks and trails by at least five feet (5') of perimeter landscaping. Building
         locations shall be approved during the commercial site plan review process and shall
         comply with all adopted building and fire codes, accommodate utility easements, right




                                                      Page 2
            of way requirements, transportation, and access ways, and all other applicable
            provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.
         2. Commercial Maximum Height: A primary building or structure may not exceed forty
            five feet (450') in height, nor be lower than ten feet (10') in height. All buildings and
            structures must adhere to adopted Building and Fire Codes.
         3. Screening of utilities and equipment: shall adhere to all BCC adopted requirements
         4. Distance Between Commercial Buildings: The distance between any building or
            structure and any other building or structure shall satisfy the Building and Fire Codes
            in place at the time of site plan approval.
G. Commercial Parking, Loading And Access:
         1. Parking: Total required off street parking spaces shall be a minimum of five (5) stalls
            per one thousand (1,000) useable square feet for office and retail uses. Sufficiency of
            parking shall be verified during site plan review, based on a professional analysis and
            the specific proposed uses. The spaces shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete
            and be accessed from a public road by a hard surfaced, composed of asphalt or
            concrete, drive approach which meets adopted standards.
         2. Loading And Unloading Area: Loading and unloading and service entrances shall not
            occur on or adjacent to a public street. Loading docks are not allowed and service
            areas shall be screened from traffic with berming, decorative masonry walls, and/or
            landscaping, pursuant to adopted design requirements in the BCC.
H. Commercial Design Guidelines: The Centrum at Bluffdale special district is located at an
   important and visible gateway to Bluffdale and thus requires enhanced architectural elements
   and features that will result in commercial buildings that are thematic and include
   enhancements to all facades. The conceptual architectural elevations and renderings are
   depicted in Figures 6-10, which are to be used as a guide and expectation for site plan review.
   The following architectural design guidelines are the minimum standards for the design and
   construction of all non-residential buildings within The Centrum at Bluffdale. Building design
   shall adhere to the design requirements in 11.150 of the BCC unless otherwise specifically
   noted.
         1. Building Materials:
                  a. Brick shall be utilized as a primary visible exterior material in building construction in
                      the Centrum Special District. Brick or thin brick veneers applied may qualify, and shall
                      be constructed with a minimum of fifty percent (50%) brick on each street facing
                      façade in these areas.. Windows shall be excluded from the calculation of exterior
                      building material requirements. Manufactured (not kiln-fired), Nichiha patterned brick
                      composite material, or imprinted dry-vit, eifs, or similar stucco type, patterned or
                      stenciled as brick do not meet the definition of brick.
                  b. Facades which do not front on Porter Rockwell, Rising Star Way, and 14600 South,
                      brick materials shall make up a minimum of 25% of each facade. Brick shall be
                      utilized as wainscot, window lintels and sills, quoins, columns, decorative features,
                      and/or emphasizing building entrances.
                  c. When utilized as an exterior material, concrete masonry units (CMU) must be colored
                      and feature decorative or architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset, split
                      faced, or exposed aggregate. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable finished material
                      and shall not be permitted on any finished building elevation with the exception of
                      minimal foundation exposure. CMU shall not be painted.
                  d. Additional secondary building materials may include: brick, stone, fiber/cement
                      composite siding, architectural metal panels with reveals, CMU, exposed and
                      patterned concrete, wood or similar material in composition and of a complementary
                      hue and shade to the brick. A maximum of two (2) accent colors may be allowed for
                      secondary materials. Stucco/EIFS/Dry-Vit type systems may be used to accent
                      building design and for wall signage areas in a percentage not to exceed 25% of any
                      one building façade.
                  e. Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to the brick or CMU
                      included in the primary or secondary façade material and shall generally be subtle,
                      subdued, low reflectance, neutral, or earth tones. White is not allowed as a primary
                      building color.
                   f. Brick, rock, CMU, and stone elements of a building shall not be painted to create
                      compliance with the color palette of the site.




                                                        Page 3
         g. Four-sided architectural design is required. The design of a building shall be
            considered on all sides of the building with each facade being required to meet the
            terms of this section and Title.
2. In addition to City design requirements for windows, transparency and glazing found in
   Chapter 11.150 of the BCC, primary building elevations along Porter Rockwell Boulevard,
   14600 South, and Rising Star Way shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%) transparency
   or window glazing within the first nine (9) feet of the structure; above that, the remaining
   facade area shall have a minimum of 15% windows or glazing. Other facades shall have a
   minimum fifteen percent (15%) window requirement, which can include the use of clerestory
   windows where high ceilings exist. Mirrored glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor.
   Spandrel glass or faux windows may be utilized to meet this requirement where not feasible
   due to building structural design limitations to be transparent. Where spandrel glass or faux
   windows are not feasible due to architectural or structural limitations, an applicant may apply
   for a deviation from strict compliance pursuant to BCC 11.150.060(E).
         a. Glass garage doors, including opaque glass, may be used to calculate and qualify for
            this requirement.
3.
         a. Figure 6 Conceptual Exterior Elevations




                                              Page 4
Figures 7-1510. Conceptual Exterior Elevation Imagess




                                 Page 5
Page 6
Page 7
Page 8
Page 9
            4. Landscaping: Individual site plans, lots or parcels located in this SD-X shall demonstrate that
               the overall developed area of the project contains a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the
               total developed project area is landscaped, including required parking lot landscaping, as
               verified during each site plan review and approval. Non-irrigated or non-landscaped area, such
               as canal banks and canal roads, do not qualify as required landscaping which meets this
               requirement.
    I. Signage:
            1. Signs: All monument, tower, and informational wayfinding signs shall adhere to a
               consistent and unified signage scheme which is consistent with the architectural theme
               shown in Figures 6-10, such as architectural bases of brick. Unless otherwise noted, all
               signs shall comply with signage requirements in BCC 11.220.
            2. Signage which differs from or exceeds the City's standards requirements is allowed as
               follows:
                      a. Tower Sign: One tower sign shall be allowed at the entrance to The Centrum
                         at Bluffdale from Porter Rockwell Blvd., which meets the dimensional,
                         design, and locational standards found in BCC 11.22.070 and all other
                         applicable requirements of BCC 11.220, ans shall include an architectural base
                         which conforms to the overall architectural theme.
                     b. Welcome sign. Developer shall install an entry/welcome sign which includes
                         the official Bluffdale logo or Bluffdale as part of the project, as depicted in
                         Figure 10. Said sign shall be allowed to be up to six feet high, shall have an
                         architectural brick base, and conform with the City logo style guide. The
                         welcome sign shall be included in the site plan of and constructed with the
                         building located closest to the intersection of 14600 South and Porter
                         Rockwell Boulevard.
                      c. Informational Wayfinding Signs: Informational wayfinding signs shall be
                         allowed in the project and shall follow the size and location guidelines
                         outlined in city code section 11.220.070 for Informational signs.
                     d. Suspended, Blade Type Projecting Signs: Suspended or blade type projecting
                         signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a
                         minimum clearance of seven feet (7') above the pavement, and shall be a
                         maximum of four (4) square feet.
                      e. Electronic message centers not allowed.



        SECTION 2:           AMENDMENT “11.110.130.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE”
of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                   AMEN DMEN T




                                                          Page 10
11.110.130.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE

The intent of this special district zone is to provide a land use pattern that provides for a
complementary and compatible mix of commercial and residential uses. This zone allows for
the establishment of commercial, residential, and other uses consistent with a convenient and
pedestrian friendly mixed use development layout. It is the intent of this zone to allow for
flexibility and creativity in the arrangement of uses. The purpose is to develop The Centrum at
Bluffdale, a mixed-use community consisting of up to 20,450 square feet of commercial
buildings and up to 252236 residential units, including only studio, one bedroom and two-
bedroom units. The Centrum at Bluffdale is located adjacent to Porter Rockwell Boulevard,
Rising Star Way, and Bluffdale Boulevard. Additional internal access will occur through
private driveways. The project includes a privately owned and maintained swimming pool and
other amenities. Adjacent park and trail amenities near the East Jordan Canal will be accessible
to the public. Design guidelines, standards, and specifications in this SD-X Zone are created
with this chapter and shall supersede any conflicting design guidelines, standards, and
specifications in any and all applicable City ordinances. Design standards not included in the
SD-X The Centrum at Bluffdale, shall be governed by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale
City Code (BCC).




       SECTION 3:            AMENDMENT “11.110.130.020 SITE PLAN” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                     AMEN DMEN T

11.110.130.020 SITE PLAN

The SD-X-The Centrum at Bluffdale Conceptual Site Plan consists of approximately 3.2 acres
of commercial, 3.4 acres of residential, and 1.1 acres of landscaping, open space and amenity
area (total proposed open space includes amenities and paved spaces within the residential and
commercial parcels and is not solely landscaped area) for a total of 6.6 acres, as shown in
Figure 1. Total acreages may vary as final site plans are developed and approved.

Figure 1. Conceptual Site Plan




                                                            Page 11
A. SD-X Commercial: The commercial areas of the The Centrum at Bluffdale consist of
   approximately 3.4 acres. It is anticipated that up to 20,450approximately 17,550 square feet of
   commercial buildings can be accommodated within The Centrum at Bluffdale, depending upon
   specific uses, market demand, right of way requirements, and sufficient parking being provided.
   Potential commercial uses may include retail and office, among other approved uses as shown in
   Table 11.110.130.030. Commercial uses will have direct pedestrian connections to community
   an regional trail networks through integrated site design, as well as good automobile access and
   visibility along Porter Rockwell Blvd., Rising Star Way, and 14600 South.
B. SD-X Residential Amenities: The residential portions of The Centrum at Bluffdale will include
   privately owned and maintained swimming pool and amenities, and exterior linear park and trail
   amenities which are accessible to the public, as shown in the (open space) Figure 2.
C. SD-X Parks, Open Space, and Trails Plan: Within The Centrum at Bluffdale, open space has
   been provided to benefit the residential community, create a trail section which is available to be
   connected in the future to existing and proposed community trail systems; and in the residential
   areas, to provide pedestrian connectivity to the retail amenities on site. This plan is shown in
   Figure 3. An onsite pool deck, verandas, dog park and trail areas will provide the opportunity
   for gatherings, picnics and informal play areas for general recreation. The Centrum at
   Bluffdale's active open space includes 1.1 acres in private trails, hardscaped amenity areas, and
   landscaped areas. The trails are available to connect with City trail systems adjacent to and
   within the project area and shall be accessible to the public. However, due to current private
   ownership to the southwest, The Centrum can only connect to the City sidewalk system on
   Rising Star Way in the southwest area of the project.
   A public trailhead area shall be designated for public access and indicated on the conceptual site
   plan providing access to the East Jordan Canal trail system and connectivity to the overall trail
   system throughout the development, as shown on Figure 3. The private parks and trails will be
   informal play areas that include at a minimum turf, trees and an automatic irrigation system,
   which complies with the City's water efficiency standards. As a privately owned and maintained
   park, the developer will not request reimbursement for the value of the park land and the
   improvements and all parks impact fees will be paid by all residential units. The total active and
   passive parks, trails and open space areas are approximately 1.1 acres and will contain a variety




                                                        Page 12
of recreational amenities, such as those outlined in the Amenity Plan in Figure 2 below.

Figure 2. Amenity Plan




Figure 3. Open Space and Landscape Plan




                                                   Page 13
D.
     Transportation Network: The Centrum at Bluffdale's transportation takes advantage of the
     arterial road, Porter Rockwell Blvd., along with Rising Star Way, as primary access to the
     property. Right in right out access is required on Porter Rockwell Boulevard. A signalized
     intersection and lane improvements are proposed to be located at the intersection of Rising Star
     Way and Porter Rockwell Blvd. as warranted. The transportation network plan is depicted in
     Figure 4. Detailed traffic studies are required during site plan review to verify specific design
     and right of way requirements.Figure 4. Transportation Network




                                                         Page 14
E. Parking. As a unique mixed used project with a variety of future commercial tenants, and
   limitations on the number of bedrooms in the apartment units, parking requirements at The
   Centrum are specific to this special district. A conceptual parking plan is depicted in Figure 5.
         1. Commercial areas shall be parked at a minimum of five (5) stalls per every 1,000 square feet of
            commercial building; approval of this ratio shall be verified during site plan review, based on
            specific proposed uses and a submitted professional analysis. The conceptual parking plan
            shows 138 surface parking stalls devoted to the commercial part of the project.
         2. A minimum of 504 parking stalls shall be provided for the 252 apartment units. These stalls shall
            not be utilized to meet any commercial parking requirements.




                                                       Page 15
3. Buildings and uses designated with drive-through lanes shall verify adequate stacking and
   queuing in their traffic analysis during site plan review.
4. Cross access easement agreements shall be recorded with any proposed subdivision plat or
   before the first building occupancy - as the case may be - between the residential lot and the
   commercial lots to accommodate free movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and to allow
   shared parking between throughout the project.

  Figure 5. Parking Plan




                                             Page 16
Page 17
-
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN


                                  - General Plan - Recently Adopted June, 2022
                                  - Housing Chapter for Context
                                  - Updated Moderate Income Housing Element to be
                                  added




                                                                                     4.0 HOUSING

                                                        INTRODUCTION
                                                        Nearly two thirds (69%) of Bluffdale’s existing housing units are single-family
                                                        homes (Figure 4.1), according to data acquired from Bluffdale building permits.
                                                        The construction of townhomes and multi-family housing has increased over
                                                        the last ten years within the City (Figure 4.2). Bluffdale’s median household size,
                                                        median home value, and median income are higher when compared to those
                                                        in the southwest valley and the rest of Salt Lake County, indicating strong future
                                                        demand for housing in the City.

                                                        When likened to Salt Lake County, Bluffdale households spend more of their
                                                        income on the combination of housing and transportation costs, leaving a lower
                                                        percentage of remaining income for other essential household expenses.
Figure 4.1 - Typical single-family neighborhood along
2700 West in Bluffdale
                                                        4.1 EXISTING CONDITIONS
                                                        HOUSING STOCK
                                                        The majority of single-family housing stock in Bluffdale has been built in the last
                                                        twenty years on large lots on the west side of the City. The existing multi-family
                                                        housing units that have been built in the last ten years, have been predominately
                                                        on the east side of Bluffdale, and have consisted of small-lot single-family (Figure
                                                        4.2), townhome, and medium-density apartment developments.

                                                        Current zoning in Bluffdale permits accessory dwelling units (ADUs) as an
                                                        approved land use. Accessory dwelling units are currently defined as a secondary
                                                        unit within an owner occupied single–family home. Permitting and promoting
                                                        ADU’s creates the opportunity to provide housing with a greater diversity of
                                                        residential unit types and costs.

                                                        Areas with diverse housing options provide residents with more choices and are
Figure 4.2 - New housing development in Bluffdale.      more stable. These areas include a broad range of housing unit types, rental and
                                                        ownership options, and a variety of price levels.




                                                                                                                       4.0 HOUSING     36
                                                                                                            BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         HOUSEHOLD SIZE (FIGURE 4.3)
                                                         The median household size in the state of Utah is 3.09 people. The Salt Lake
                                                         County median household size is 2.95 people and is estimated to increase
                                                         to 3.26 people by 2025. Median household size in Bluffdale is reported to be
                                                         an average of 3.72. The southwest valley average has a slightly lower average
                                                         household size at 3.6.

                                                         In the last 10 years, average household size in Bluffdale has increased by 9.5%.
Figure 4.3 - Median household size comparison. Source:
                                                         The average household size in both Salt Lake County and in the State of Utah has
2020: ACS 5-Year Estimate
                                                         decreased. This data reflects Bluffdale’s population as both younger and having
                                                         larger families than the surrounding areas. Future regional trends will mostly
                                                         show a continued decline in median household size in developed and aging
                                                         areas and increases in median household size in new growth areas.


                                                         HOME VALUES (FIGURE 4.4)
                                                         Housing prices in Bluffdale have increased notably over the past several years,
                                                         commensurate with the same trend along the greater Wasatch Front. Values for
                                                         single–family units, multi–family units, and vacant land have all increased.

                                                         The median home value of owner-occupied units in Bluffdale was $482,100
                                                         in 2020. Bluffdale’s median home value is higher than that of Salt Lake County
                                                         ($336,100) and the southwest valley ($335,000). This discrepancy is likely due to
Figure 4.4 - Median owner-occupied home value in         the large home and lot sizes in Bluffdale compared to other cities. Median prices
Bluffdale. Source: 2020 American Community Survey
                                                         have risen considerably into 2022, with home prices increasing far more rapidly
5-year Estimate
                                                         than median incomes across the region.


                                                         INCOME SPENT ON HOUSING AND
                                                         TRANSPORTATION
                                                         Bluffdale households spend on average 37% of their monthly income on
                                                         housing, slightly above the Salt Lake County average of 32%. Most nearby cities
                                                         show percentages similar to Bluffdale’s. Other communities in the southwest
                                                         valleys, average 27% (Figure 4.5).

                                                         Bluffdale residents spend 16% of their income on transportation, which is similar
                                                         to 18% for the southwest valley, but lower than Salt Lake County, which spends
                                                         an average of 20% on transportation.

                                                         Decisions about new development should consider housing and transportation
                                                         costs. Proximity to transportation options and a variety housing types could help
Figure 4.5 - Income spent on Housing and
Transportation                                           Bluffdale keep housing and transportation costs manageable, making it more
                                                         competitive with other local municipalities for attracting and maintaining its
                                                         residential population.




                                                                                                                      4.0 HOUSING        37
                                                                                                      BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                 AFFORDABILITY INDEX
                                                 The Affordability Index compares the relationship between median household
                                                 incomes and median property values. Higher index ratios indicate a home that
                                                 is less Affordable to the median income household. Ratios decline as household
                                                 incomes increase (assuming constant property values), or increase as property
                                                 values outpace income growth.
Figure 4.6 - Affordability Index Graphic
                                                 Bluffdale’s affordability index value is 4.41, which is fairly close to the Salt Lake
                                                 County index value of 4.62 (Figure 4.6). This is due to the higher home prices and
                                                 higher household income than many other cities in the southwest valley and
                                                 Salt Lake County. The affordability index throughout the southwest valley is 3.73.
                                                 On a regional level, the southwest valley is still more affordable than Salt Lake
                                                 County, and by this metric the Wasatch Front is still more affordable than major
                                                 cities such as Portland, Denver, Las Vegas, Phoenix, and others.


                                                 CHALLENGES
                                                 PRESSURE TO EXPAND LOCAL HOUSING SUPPLY
                                                 Bluffdale’s housing challenges are shared by municipalities all along the Wasatch
                                                 Front. Figure 4.7 shows Utah Population growth. This growth is outpacing
                                                 housing supply and thus, housing costs are increasing and land available for new
                                                 greenfield developments is decreasing. The state-wide housing shortage puts
                                                 pressure on all local governments, including Bluffdale, to increase its supply.

                                                 DEMAND FOR VARYING HOUSING TYPES VERSUS LOCAL
Figure 4.7- Utah population growth (ksltv.com)
                                                 RESISTANCE TO GROWTH
                                                 Communities with insufficient diversity of housing types struggle to meet the
                                                 housing needs of current and future residents. This results in inefficient land use
                                                 and increased travel distances, transportation expenses, and higher costs for
                                                 municipal services and utility providers.

                                                 Bluffdale’s housing stock is predominantly single-family homes; however, recent
                                                 and planned housing developments have increased housing type diversity.
                                                 According to data from The Bureau of Economic and Business Research (BEBR),
                                                 Bluffdale has permitted more townhome-type and multi-family development in
                                                 the last decade than ever before. This data shows that Bluffdale is already making
                                                 progress toward an increased variety of housing types.

                                                 TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENTS KEEPING PACE WITH
                                                 HOUSING GROWTH
                                                 In order for transit departments, such as the Utah Transit Authority (UTA) and
                                                 the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT ), to invest in new transit options
                                                 within a city, a city needs to show that it has the future growth and interest to
                                                 support transit expansion. Bluffdale’s land uses consist mostly of larger lot single-


                                                                                                                 4.0 HOUSING     38
                                                                                                              BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                          family homes and low to medium-density townhomes. The existing future land
                                                          use map shows lower density land uses around potential transit hubs. Bluffdale’s
                                                          Future Land Use map that has been adopted as part of this general plan, shows
                                                          more favorable and transit supportive land use densities around future potential
                                                          transit hubs within the City.



                                                          4.2 FUTURE HOUSING
                                                          CONSIDERATIONS
                                                          The list of housing types described here is not exhaustive and some of the
                                                          terminology varies across different regions.

                                                          1. VERY LOW-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                          Bluffdale’s existing residential uses generally west of Redwood Road are
                                                          predominantly very low-density housing types. These are single-family homes on
                                                          a one-acre lot or larger. These very low-density residential neighborhoods shall
                                                          continue as existing housing or through the construction of additional very low-
                                                          density housing types.

                                                          VERY LOW-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                                » Single-Family Homes (Figure 4.8) contain one dwelling unit per
Figure 4.8 - Large lot single- family home (callithome.           building, one dwelling unit per lot, on lots that are at least one-acre.
com)
                                                                » Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs) are separate, self-contained dwelling
                                                                  units located on the same lot as a primary residence, typically a single-
                                                                  family home. ADU’s are attached to the primary dwelling unit. Detached
                                                                  ADU’s are not currently allowed by city code.

                                                          2. LOW-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                          Bluffdale’s existing residential uses between Redwood Road and the railway
                                                          are predominantly low-density housing types. These are typically single-family
                                                          homes and form the City’s traditional residential neighborhoods.

                                                          Established neighborhoods shall continue to provide low-density housing
                                                          types in the form of existing housing or through the construction of additional
                                                          low-density housing types. Expanding housing options with a wider variety
                                                          of housing types and prices will help meet the needs of residents across the
                                                          housing life cycle while maintaining the low-density of Bluffdale’s established
Figure 4.9- Single-family home in Bluffdale               neighborhoods.

                                                          LOW-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                                » Single-Family Homes contain one dwelling unit per building and,
                                                                  typically, one dwelling unit per lot.




                                                                                                                         4.0 HOUSING         39
                                                                                                    BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                3. MEDIUM-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                Medium-density housing types are a critical component of housing life cycle
                                                and missing middle housing needs. These types are recommended in specific
                                                locations in Bluffdale, typically in places where land uses are transitioning to
                                                more increased diversity and densities. Some of these locations have been
                                                identified as neighborhood or city centers and some are located adjacent to
                                                high-density housing areas.
Figure 4.10 - Cottage cluster example
                                                Some of the medium-density housing types may be used as mixed-use
                                                buildings. These buildings typically have the non-residential uses located on the
                                                ground floor. Mixed-use buildings can help transition between a low-density
                                                residential neighborhood and the commercial uses in a neighborhood center or
                                                city center.

                                                MEDIUM-DENSITY CENTERS
                                                      » Porter Rockwell & Redwood Road
                                                      » Redwood Road- 14000 South to 148000 South
Figure 4.10 - Woodside Townhomes in Bluffdale

                                                MEDIUM-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                                                      » Townhomes and Rowhouses shown in Figures 4.10 and 4.11, are small
                                                        to medium sized structures, typically with four or more attached single-
                                                        family homes placed side by side, in a row.
                                                      » Stacked Flats share some characteristics with both apartments and
                                                        townhomes. Each unit is two-stories and one unit is stacked on top of
                                                        the other, resulting in a four-story building. Both units have doors on
                                                        the street, usually in a small alcove, making it look like one house. The
                                                        garages are typically in the back, on an alley.

Figure 4.11 - Townhomes example                       » Garden Apartments are housing complexes with multiple buildings
                                                        that are usually two or three stories tall. The complex has a garden-like
                                                        setting: low-rise buildings surrounded by lawns, trees, shrubbery, and
                                                        gardens.
                                                      » Mixed-Use Developments can be a horizontal or vertical mix of uses,
                                                        and contain a mix of both residential commercial units.
                                                      » Cottage Clusters shown in Figure 4.10 are a collection of small-scale
                                                        single-family homes that are oriented to an open space held in common
                                                        by the unit owners.
                                                      » Duplexes and Triplexes are small-sized structures that consist of two or
                                                        three side-by-side dwelling units, typically with individual entries along
                                                        the front. Similar in scale and look to a single-unit home.




                                                                                                               4.0 HOUSING     40
                                                                                                             BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         4. HIGH-DENSITY HOUSING
                                                         High-density housing is an important part of the housing life cycle. Higher
                                                         density housing types are generally only recommended on the east and south
                                                         sides of the City, in the ‘growth areas’ defined in the Land Use chapter.

                                                         High-density housing types can work well as mixed-use buildings. These
                                                         buildings make sense in urban centers where businesses, customers, and
                                                         residents benefit from increased foot traffic, walkable destinations, and close
                                                         proximity, as well as the general increase in activity both inside and outside of
                                                         regular business hours. Transit supportive housing density is a vital element to
                                                         attracting FrontRunner service, and other transit modes, in Bluffdale in the future,
Figure 4.12 - Rockpoint Apartments in Bluffdale
                                                         particularly in the Gravel Pit area where the highest development potential lies.
                                                         This is because transit service providers require cities to allow higher densities in
                                                         order to make service more viable.

                                                         HIGH-DENSITY CENTERS
                                                               » East 14600 South Corridor
                                                               » Regional Core (Gravel Pits)

                                                         HIGH-DENSITY HOUSING TYPES
                     Residential
                     Commercial
                                                               » Apartment Buildings (Figure 4.12) are typically three to five stories tall
                                                                 and may contain ground floor commercial units. The building contains
                                                                 several units that are accessed by one primary entrance, usually with a
                                                                 lobby and elevator.
                                                               » Mixed-Use Buildings can be two to six stories tall and contain
                                                                 commercial units. The building has units that are accessed by one
                                                                 entrance. Parking is often structured.
                              Vertically Mixed Uses
                              Typical Block
Figure 4.13- Vertically mixed uses (placemakers.com)
                                                         5. HOUSING IN MIXED-USE CORRIDORS AND
                                                         CENTERS
                     Residential
                                                         Locating residential uses along mixed-use corridors provides convenient access
                     Commercial
                                                         to major roads. The experience of living, working, and shopping in and around a
                                                         corridor is different than that in centers however, corridors add to the spatial and
                                                         functional diversity of the City.

                                                         Medium-density housing types can work well in a mixed-use corridor. Low-
                                                         density housing types, with their many driveways and frequent curb cuts, do not
                                                         work well along a major corridor. High-density housing types might be desirable
                             Horizontally Mixed Uses     in these corridors but make more sense in one of the city centers, at least in the
                             Typical Block
                                                         near- and mid-term. Mixed-uses can be represented vertically or horizontally
Figure 4.14- Horizontally mixed uses (placemakers.com)
                                                         along corridors, as exemplified in Figures 4.13 and 4.14.




                                                                                                                        4.0 HOUSING      41
                                                                                                                      BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN



                                                         6. HOUSING DENSITY AND WATER
                                                         CONSERVATION
                                                        Higher-density development, may be a better way to protect water resources. A
                                                        recent study by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) (Figure 4.15) intends
                                                        to help guide communities through this debate to better understand the
                                                        impacts of high- and low-density development on water resources.

                                                        The EPA examined stormwater runoff from different development densities
                                                        to determine the comparative difference between scenarios. This analysis
                                                        demonstrated:
                                                               » Higher-density scenarios generate less stormwater runoff per house
                                                                 at all scales— one acre, lot, and watershed—and time series build-out
                                                                 examples;
                                                               » For the same amount of development, higher-density development
                                                                 produces less runoff and less impervious cover than low-density
                                                                 development; and
                                                               » For a given amount of growth, lower-density development impacts
                                                                 more of the watershed.
Figure 4.15 - Protecting Water Resources with Higher-
Density Development study, performed by Office of       Taken together, these findings indicate that low-density development may not
Sustainable Communities Smart Growth Program.
                                                        always be the preferred strategy for protecting water resources. Higher densities
                                                        may better protect water quality—especially at the lot and watershed levels. To
                                                        accommodate the same number of houses, denser developments consume less
                                                        land than lower density developments. Consuming less land means creating less
                                                        impervious cover in the watershed. EPA believes that increasing development
                                                        densities is one strategy communities can use to minimize regional water quality
                                                        impacts. To fully protect water resources, communities need to employ a wide
                                                        range of land use strategies, based on local factors, including building a range of
                                                        development densities, incorporating adequate open space, preserving critical
                                                        ecological and buffer areas, and minimizing land disturbance (Figure 4.15).1




                                                        1 Source: Protecting Water Resources With Higher-Density Development, Office of Sustainable Communi-
                                                        ties Smart Growth Program, United States Environmental Protection Agency


                                                                                                                                   4.0 HOUSING        42
                                                                                                  BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




                                                 4.3 POLICIES + IMPLEMENTATION
                                                 GOAL 1: Retain character of established neighborhoods

                                                 Policies
                                                 1. Consider specific location and surrounding neighborhood when reviewing
                                                    and evaluating new or infill development.

                                                 Implementation Strategies
Figure 4.16- Residential infill example
                                                 1. Amend zoning ordinance in single-family zones to ensure context sensitivity
                                                    of location and density of infill (Figure 4.16) and new development.

                                                 GOAL 2: Provide a variety of high-quality housing choices
                                                 that incorporates a range of types, tenancies, & densities
                                                 (Figure 4.17).

                                                 Policy
                                                 1. Support alternative housing types in the City, and coordinate and align
                                                    Housing and Land Use chapters within the General Plan.

                                                 Implementation Strategy
Figure 4.17 - ‘Gentle density’ housing example   1. Develop clear guidance of potential future locations for housing density.

                                                 GOAL 3: Ensure new housing stock addresses all income
                                                 levels and life stages.

                                                 Policy
                                                 1. Encourage flexible housing guidelines to respond to evolving market
                                                    conditions.

                                                 Implementation Strategy
                                                 2. Adopt land use regulations that develop as the housing market changes for
                                                    different populations of residents.




                                                                                                             4.0 HOUSING        43
                                                   BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN




4.4 STATE HOUSING PLAN
REQUIREMENTS
Bluffdale has already begun to address the 2019 State of Utah requirement to
provide a moderate income housing plan within five years. This is a challenge
faced by all municipalities along the Wasatch Front as they collectively address
continuous population growth. Further discussion on Moderate Income Housing
can be found in the General Plan Toolkit chapter as well as the appendix of this
document.

 Recommendations
1. Better coordinate land use and transportation planning.
2. Develop community support for housing policy changes.
3. Support increased variety of housing options.
4. Update zoning ordinance in key areas to support mixed-use developments
   and reduce impact and permit fees.




                                                             4.0 HOUSING    44
•       →
•       →


    o
•




•




•




•

•


•




•

•
