                                              BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                                       MEETING AGENDA
                                                    Wednesday May 19, 2021


Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Planning Commission will hold a public meeting on
Wednesday, May 19, 2021 at 6:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible at the Bluffdale City Hall, 2222
West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. This meeting will also be broadcast live to the public on the City website
www.bluffdale.com. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by Commission members may be by
electronic means via telephone conference call.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING 6:00 PM

    1. Roll Call.
    2. Approval of minutes from the Planning Commission meetings on April 21, 2021.

Legislative Items

    3. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a City Initiated Text Amendment
       Application to amend Title 11, Chapters 11.20, 11.90, 11.120, 11.150, 11.160, 11.220 et seq. of the
       Bluffdale City Code regarding required City commercial site, building, and landscaping standards,
       in the GC-1 Zone and city-wide, along with other related administrative provisions. (Application
       2020-54) – Staff Presenter, Grant Crowell.

Discussion Items

    4. Planning Commission Business (planning session for upcoming items, follow up, etc.).
           a. Branding of the 2700 West/Bangerter Gateway Commercial Area

    5. Adjournment.




                                                                              Dated: May 14, 2021




                                                                              Grant Crowell, AICP
                                                                              City Planner/Economic Development Director




   In compliance with the American Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this meeting should contact
                                 Bluffdale City at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at (801)254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1   Present:
 2
 3   Members:        Debbie Cragun, Chair
 4                   Kory Luker
 5                   Steve Walston
 6
 7   Excused:        Johnny Loumis, Jr.
 8                   Holly Brown
 9                   Ulises Flynn, Alternate
10
11   Staff:          Grant Crowell, City Planner/Economic Development Director
12                   Jennifer Robison, Senior Planner
13                   Natalie Hall, Emergency Preparedness Manager
14                   Tiffini Shinsel, Community Development Coordinator
15
16   Public:         Patrick Hobbs
17
18   The meeting was held in person at City Hall. Public comments were accepted in-person or via
19   email and U.S. mail. All submitted comments were to be read and made part of the public record.
20
21   Chair Debbie Cragun called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
22
23   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING
24
25   1.       Roll Call.
26
27   All members of the Planning Commission were present with the exception of Johnny Loumis, Jr.,
28   Holly Brown, and Ulises Flynn.
29
30   Administrative Item
31
32   2.       CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on The Preserve at Spring View Farms Phase 2B 1st
33            Amended Plat Amendment Application Amending Lot 205 located at approximately
34            14412 South Canvasback Lane, Patrick Hobbs, Applicant (Application 2021-13) – Staff
35            Presenter, Jennifer Robison.
36
37   Senior City Planner, Jennifer Robison, presented the staff report and gave an overview of the
38   location of the subject property within The Preserve at Spring View Farms. In February of 2020,
39   Lot 205 was included as part of the R-1-10 I-O (Infill Overlay), which is how The Preserve at
40   Spring View Farm is zoned. Originally, some of the subject property was owned by the HOA.


                                                     1
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                              BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                 ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1   Mr. Hobbs recently purchased Lot 205 and would like to extend the property out to the curb line
 2   and have a deed with the HOA to quitclaim the property to him. Consequently, the property would
 3   come out to the curb line. The existing sidewalk would remain on the public side of the road and a
 4   crossing would be designated to the private property. It has been approved by the City Engineer.
 5   The Preserve at Spring View Farm includes a gated feature, which would be moved to the property
 6   line. It would provide a clear delineation between the public and private streets. Mrs. Robison
 7   reviewed the current layout of the subject property and the proposed changes. It is .42-acre in size
 8   and will have about 1,560 square feet (.03 acre) added to it.
 9
10   In response to Chair Cragun’s question regarding the impact on setbacks when a property line goes
11   to the street, Mrs. Robison stated that there is a steep slope, which limits the buildable area on the
12   lot. By moving the property line to the curb, Mr. Hobbs will be able to use the 25-foot setback from
13   where the new property line will be. If this action is approved, the property will be immutably
14   privately owned and the responsibility of the property owner.
15
16   The applicant, Patrick Hobbs, gave his address as 4493 Open Hill Drive in South Jordan. He
17   clarified that the addition of the square footage would make the lot .42-acre in size. He noted that
18   the lots to the south also have property lines that extend to the curb, so his request would be
19   consistent with the neighboring lots. When he purchased the property, it was his understanding and
20   that of the HOA that the property extended to the curb. That assumption proved to be erroneous.
21   The plat amendment is necessary because of the steep slope in the back of the property for the
22   placement of the home.
23
24   Steve Walston moved to approve the Preserve at Spring View Farms Phase 2B 1st Amended
25   Plat Application 2021-13 subject to the following:
26
27   Conditions:
28
29          1.      That all requirements of the City Codes and adopted ordinances are met and
30                  adhered to.
31


                                                       2
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1          2.      That the final mylar copy of the plat complies with the Bluffdale City
 2                  Engineering Standards and Specifications and recommendations by the City
 3                  Engineer and Public Works Department for all relevant plat drawings.
 4
 5          3.      That the location of the public sidewalk and crossing be approved by the City
 6                  Engineer. The construction and costs for these improvements are the property
 7                  owner’s responsibility.
 8
 9          4.      That the application is responsible for all fees in preparation of the final mylar
10                  copy and recording of the amended plat as approved.
11
12   Kory Luker seconded the motion. Vote on the motion: Kory Luker-Aye; Steve Walston-Aye;
13   Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
14
15   Legislative Item
16
17   3.     CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on a City-Initiated Text
18          Amendment Application to Amend Title 11, Chapters 11.20, 11.90, 11.120, 11.150,
19          11.160, 11.220 et seq. of the Bluffdale City Code Regarding Required City Commercial
20          Site, Building, and Landscaping Standards, in the GC-1 Zone and City-Wide, along
21          with Other Related Administrative Provisions.          (Application 2020-54) – Staff
22          Presenter, Grant Crowell.
23
24   City Planner/Economic Development Director, Grant Crowell, presented the staff report and stated
25   that the above item was considered at the past two Planning Commission Meetings. In response to
26   Chair Cragun’s question regarding the need for a public hearing, Mr. Crowell stated that
27   Mrs. Robison listened to the previous meeting and confirmed that the public hearing was closed.
28   Therefore, a public hearing would not be necessary because that obligation had been satisfied.
29   Mr. Crowell reported that he received an email from Mac Brubaker that was to be read and
30   submitted into the public record. Chair Cragun could opt to re-open the public hearing to allow for
31   the reading of the email and to consider any other emails that might be submitted.
32
33   Mr. Crowell reported that the Planning Commission has had conducted two public hearings on this
34   agenda item. The staff report contained a bulleted summary of key issues and themes that the


                                                      3
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1   Planning Commission requested be provided in summary form. Mr. Crowell drove the Valley to
 2   take pictures of samples of building designs and materials that would inform tonight’s discussion.
 3   He also spoke with various business owners about their perspectives. The process of developing the
 4   revised text amendments had been time-consuming and complex.
 5
 6   One area of focus had been the gateway into Bluffdale at Bangerter Highway and 2700 West.
 7   There has been extensive discussion on how that gateway should be designed to be visually
 8   attractive without being cost-prohibitive to developers. Consideration of how one area should be
 9   designed had proven to be difficult in terms of how other areas should be designed.
10
11   Commissioner Walston asked why the focus should be just on 2700 West because there are other
12   commercial corridors where the design standards should also be applicable. Mr. Crowell agreed
13   that design should be important throughout the City. The focus on 2700 West came about because
14   it has been an area of interest for developers. Mr. Crowell stated that a major point in the ordinance
15   is Section 11.150, which addresses the general requirements for all commercial site plans
16   throughout Bluffdale. The ordinance will raise the bar for everyone. Commissioner Walston
17   opined that it would be much easier if the requirements are consistent.
18
19   Mr. Crowell indicated that there are areas in the General Plan that could be worthy of design focus.
20   Bangerter Highway and Redwood Road were of particular concern. That intersection has its own
21   ordinance that was developed by Woodbury and is known as the Gateway-Redwood Zone. It is a
22   36-page document that includes design guidelines. That type of opportunity presents itself when
23   there is a master developer.
24
25   On the west side of Redwood and Bangerter Highway, Bluffdale City owns the property right at the
26   gateway, some of which is already zoned GC-1. The City owns the property on the north end, as
27   well. The City will be able to write its own ordinance for that property when it goes out for a
28   Request for Proposals (“RFP”). Mr. Crowell identified other areas, such as the Porter Rockwell
29   Boulevard, which is zoned GC-1 and Mixed-Use. In addition, Bringhurst Station and Rockwell
30   Ridge both have their own zones and Development Agreements. It was noted that it would be



                                                       4
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, April 21, 2021

1    extremely difficult to establish City-wide requirements when 2700 West is an ongoing priority and
2    focus of commercial development. There will likely be more Special Districts.
3
4    Chair Cragun commented that there is a difference between industrial and other areas in the City
5    Bluffdale, so it may not be viable to have City-wide blanket requirements. However, Special
6    Districts provide a tool for developing specific requirements. Chair Cragun added that the Bluffdale
7    gateways do not all need to look the same. Mr. Crowell stated that design standards have become a
 8   hot topic throughout the City. Commissioner Walston added that gateways can have variation.
 9
10   Mr. Crowell stated that architects take some creative license, but some of the numbers specified for
11   things such as the use of glass might be high. The challenge is to determine an appropriate number.
12   He had received criticism for the numbers provided but was not getting definitive numbers from
13   anyone. The equation for balancing land and construction costs with commercial viability had been
14   problematic. Mr. Crowell commented that he does not have a vested interest in what the numbers
15   will be. He was more interested in allowing for partnerships and creativity.
16
17   Chair Cragun asked if regulations will place a more onerous workload on staff. Mr. Crowell stated
18   that ultimately, the Planning Commission will have to deal with the needs of developers. Chair
19   Cragun remarked that there needs to be reconciliation between the various requirements. Too much
20   flexibility results in unsightly building designs. The market and cost of construction were the
21   primary criticisms leveled by developers against the City in its design requirements.
22
23   Mr. Crowell commented that the number one industry in Bluffdale is construction. Therefore, the
24   City Council recently asked that contractor yards and offices be added to the Use Table. The
25   market would support designating land as HC Heavy Commercial and allowing that type of use.
26   The City Council was not ready to switch to that land use right away. Brick construction could be
27   eliminated but there was some interest in having brick and rock create a unifying design theme. He
28   noted that Woodbury has an Architectural Review Committee for properties it develops to ensure
29   that building designs are attractive.
30



                                                       5
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1   Attention to detail will depend on the location of the building materials being used. Buildings that
 2   are in the rear portion of the property and far removed from road frontage do not need stringent
 3   design requirements. The front portions will potentially be the main focus of building designs with
 4   more flexibility in the rear. Another recurring theme was the solid wall buffers imposed between
 5   commercial and residential properties. In many cases, the walls fall under the Subdivision Code,
 6   which was not being developed. It is a frequently heard complaint but is costly.
 7
 8   A criticism Mr. Crowell recently heard was that 20% landscaping is too much in a GC-1 zone.
 9   Many options can fall within the buffer requirements within the Landscaping Code. Landscaping in
10   front of a business is a philosophical question with many opinions.
11
12   Mr. Crowell discussed the pros and cons of stucco versus brick or other materials. Building
13   materials are evolving and many options have been developed. It was noted that office and retail
14   buildings can be two stories.     There are differing opinions regarding the merits of two-story
15   buildings.
16
17   Chair Cragun suggested splitting the discussion into different parts, such as building appearance and
18   location, and landscaping, water, and parking.        She acknowledged that the document is very
19   technical and difficult to understand for someone with limited experience and expertise in some of
20   the issues covered in the proposed text amendments. Mr. Crowell stated that landscaping and
21   water/irrigation design are very important.     The City is interested in developing landscaping
22   approaches that minimize water use. Mr. Crowell displayed renderings of walls with and without
23   articulation.
24
25   Commissioner Walston stated that his understanding was that the two most controversial issues are
26   the percentage of glass being used and the composition of the building materials. Mr. Crowell
27   explained that there are requirements imposed for all sides so a focus on one side, such as the front,
28   would be reasonable. He would like to get feedback from the development community on their
29   views regarding the glass requirement.
30



                                                       6
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1   Mr. Crowell suggested having a standard and building mechanism in place to allow developers to
 2   seek deviations from strict compliance with the standard. Chair Cragun stated that the issue she has
 3   wrestled with is the fact that Bluffdale has a limited number of gateways into the community. The
 4   2700 West area has created contention with the neighborhoods in the area already. There has been
 5   some disappointment with how buildings have turned out. While she does not want to discourage
 6   businesses that want to locate in Bluffdale, she was not willing to sacrifice design. Settling on
 7   numbers was especially difficult to achieve. She added felt that people should want to build
 8   businesses that are a source of pride. She said she did not think flexibility should be excessive,
 9   especially in the gateways.
10
11   Commissioner Walston advocated for creative flexibility, provided that the designs are attractive.
12   Chair Cragun said that could be the case unless there is a desire to establish a theme. Commissioner
13   Walston opined that attractiveness is more important than themes. Mr. Crowell stated that brick
14   could be a unifying theme but it could be of different colors, provided it is not painted. He strongly
15   objected to painted brick. Commissioner Walston suggested the idea of an aggregate measure of
16   things the City wants. Mrs. Robison had observed how different textures and hues look under night
17   lights.
18
19   Commissioner Luker addressed the notion of having different colors so that nothing is conspicuous.
20   Mr. Crowell stated that Arctic Circle has submitted a design proposal but the approval process is in
21   limbo because of the absence of a revised Design Code.             The prevailing theme is brick.
22   Commissioner Luker asked if outside seating at the Arctic Circle will count toward landscaping.
23   Mr. Crowell said that the applicant will need to show a proposed design in order to determine
24   whether it would be acceptable.
25
26   Mr. Crowell stated that because tilt-up construction is becoming more common, consideration needs
27   to be given to how it could be used in ways that are compatible with design requirements.
28
29   Chair Cragun was amenable to the idea of having 2700 West adopt a brick theme. The issue to be
30   resolved would be the percentage. The key factor was the level of visibility of the wall in relation
31   to the orientation on the property. Concrete Masonry Units (“CMU”) are a popular building

                                                       7
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 21, 2021

1    material that could be considered. Renderings were displayed of buildings with CMU. Mr. Crowell
2    discussed how CMU could be used successfully. Banding also gives variety to walls. Texture is
3    another approach to providing design variation. Mr. Crowell showed photos of how metal can be
4    used along the backsides of buildings.
5
6    Mr. Crowell addressed the issue of determining what constitutes the back of a building and how it
7    would be determined. Builders could be asked to designate the primary wall and the back could be
 8   designated with some flexibility. Mr. Crowell asked if all streets constitute a point of reference for
 9   determining building fronts. Discussion ensued on how to define a major street for orienting the
10   front of a building for guiding design requirements. From a legal perspective, the front of a
11   building could be argued in different ways. Mr. Crowell noted that outside storage has been a point
12   of contention with property owners.
13
14   The discussion returned to how the back of a building would be determined. Limited visibility was
15   identified as a key criterion. If the back of one building faces the back of another building it would
16   be easy to make a determination provided the tandem buildings are built at the same time. Chair
17   Cragun stated that if a building faces a residential area, it could not be deemed as the back of a
18   building. Mr. Crowell showed renderings of buildings that illustrated the challenges of determining
19   the back of a building. One factor that needs to be considered is the fact that some buildings are
20   built in phases, so imposing a requirement prematurely would generate major push-back from
21   developers.
22
23   Mr. Crowell showed some pictures of buildings in Saratoga Springs that are almost all CMU, glass,
24   and stucco. The brick-like materials are CMU. There are a wide variety of design elements that did
25   not involve any use of brick.
26
27   Chair Cragun reopened the public hearing.
28
29   Mac Brubaker submitted an email for Mr. Crowell to read and include the public record.
30   Mr. Brubaker made the following key points:
31
32             The proposed changes are economically very discouraging.

                                                       8
                       DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                       BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                          ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                              Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1      Bluffdale’s citizens placed a high priority on commercial development but the proposed
 2       changes would de-incentivize commercial development.
 3      Interest rates are currently very favorable for developers unless the City imposes
 4       draconian measures that are financially prohibitive.
 5      Requiring an eight-foot wall would be extremely expensive and the topography would
 6       make the wall look even taller. The wall would break up valuable open space.
 7      The requirement to use glass, brick, and mixed-use materials on all four sides of a
 8       building would be cost-prohibitive.
 9      The public restroom and service building in the park across the street from his property
10       do not meet the proposed windows or materials requirements. He believes private
11       builders should not be required to meet a higher standard than the City.
12      The landscaping requirements would be financially problematic.
13      Adjacent rental spaces to help businesses defray the cost of their buildings would suffer
14       limitations to achieve this objective.
15      He wanted to help Bluffdale meet its commercial development aspirations; however, the
16       proposed requirements would pose a serious barrier to achieving that objective.
17      He requested that the wall requirement have flexibility when it is not next to residential
18       properties.
19      He asked that the glass requirements not be applied to portions of sides or rears of
20       buildings that are at least 40 feet away from streets.
21      He asked that the only increase in landscaping requirements to be imposed would come
22       from the Water District.
23      He opined that there are changes that need to be made to the Land Use Table to
24       accommodate commercial operations.
25      Restaurants and retailers need storage for food assembly and other goods delivered to
26       homes.
27      He felt that the prohibition of contractors needed to be changed to actual uses and not
28       licenses.



                                                  9
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1               Outside storage should continue to be prohibited but many contractors are office users
 2                that happen to manage construction and have no outside yards.
 3
 4   Commissioner Walston asked Mr. Crowell to share his insights on Mr. Brubaker’s comments. With
 5   regard to the wall requirement, Mr. Crowell stated the ordinance applies when buffering needs to
 6   occur between commercial and residential properties. The North Star Academy is on property that
 7   is zoned residential. He could not comment on the contours referenced in Mr. Brubaker’s email.
 8   The measurements for the wall could be determined. Mr. Crowell acknowledged that solid walls
 9   could be expensive but there were options for the materials used. A wall between residential and
10   commercial was determined to be important. Mr. Crowell commented that the 40-foot visibility
11   comment by Mr. Brubaker was open to discussion.
12
13   With regard to the park, Mr. Crowell stated that it is a Salt Lake County facility and not a Bluffdale
14   City facility. It was developed several years ago and meets the ordinances that were in place at that
15   time. Mr. Crowell did not know how to address Mr. Brubaker’s comment about rentals. It was
16   important to ensure that the rental fits within the Land Use Table.
17
18   Mr. Crowell next addressed the landscaping disincentive. The Code already specifies 20%. There
19   are new requirements for enhancing water conservation and a percentage of landscaping in parking
20   areas.   The landscaping requirements were largely unchanged.          The requirements for water
21   efficiency will be largely out of the City’s control. Water rates will have an impact on the water
22   requirements that are imposed.
23
24   Mr. Crowell explained that there were no other new themes enumerated in Mr. Brubaker’s email.
25   Referencing the survey conducted by the General Plan consultants, he opined that the citizens’
26   response to commercial development actually referred to a grocery store. He acknowledged that
27   other commercial development is important. To that end, the City is trying to provide incentives for
28   development in industrial parks.
29




                                                       10
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                               ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, April 21, 2021

1    With regard to 2700 West, Mr. Crowell had received feedback from people who have said that the
2    development taking place there was not what they had expected. It was noted that staff had been
3    contacted with ideas for the property along 2700 West.
4
5    Mr. Crowell suggested that the Planning Commission consider the buffer and the way walls are
 6   measured. They should also consider whether a solid wall should separate a business from a
 7   residential area. Separating schools might be an exception since they are located in a residential
 8   zone but are not residences. Context was determined to be an important factor to consider.
 9
10   Mr. Crowell stated that the discussion should determine what constitutes the front and what would
11   be deemed as “visible.” Chair Cragun stated that wall materials and landscaping are key issues to
12   address. Mr. Crowell added that context and creativity are also important considerations. Chair
13   Cragun stated that if people are going to see all four sides of a building, all four need to be
14   attractive. There could be more flexibility for walls with minimal public exposure.
15
16   Chair Cragun opined that 2700 West ought to have a brick theme. Using the proposed Arctic Circle
17   as a frame of reference would be a good place to start renegotiating the percentages of required
18   building materials.
19
20   Commissioner Walston revisited the visibility issue and felt there was a gradation of visibility. As a
21   result, using the designations of “back” and “front” might be too dichotomous. Mr. Crowell stated
22   that the gradation thresholds would have to be defined. Commissioner Walston agreed that the
23   requirements set for 2700 West should apply to other entryways into Bluffdale.
24
25   Timing issues were discussed. Chair Cragun stated that landscaping is a major sticking point so it
26   might not be viable to make a recommendation at the next meeting. Mr. Crowell stated that the
27   longer the process takes, the greater the risk the delay poses to the City because the current
28   standards would be applied rather than the new ones. Ways to expedite the process were identified.
29   With regard to landscaping, Chair Cragun hoped to see more pictures to illustrate the options.
30
31   Mr. Crowell suggested that the Planning Commission Members visit the Jordan Valley Water
32   Conservancy District’s Garden Park in West Jordan where there are several examples of plants that
                                                      11
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                ELECTRONIC MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, April 21, 2021

 1   require less water. Mr. Crowell stated landscaping is challenging because the Water Conservancy
 2   District will raise rates if the landscaping does not meet their conservation requirements.
 3
 4   Mr. Crowell noted that the longer the document is delayed, the more likely the developers will be to
 5   submit site plan proposals on the basis of the current City Ordinance. If the document is not
 6   presented to the City Council by next week, the City’s ability to apply the Model Ordinance will
 7   expire. Mr. Crowell urged the Planning Commission to forward the matter to City Council as soon
 8   as possible. Chair Cragun left the public hearing open.
 9
10   Debbie Cragun moved to table the matter to the next meeting to give staff time to work on the
11   list of items identified by Mr. Crowell. Steve Walston seconded the motion. Vote on motion:
12   Kory Luker-Aye, Steve Walston-Aye, Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
13
14   Discussion Item
15
16   4.     Planning Commission Business (Planning Session for Upcoming Items, Follow up, etc.)
17
18   Mr. Crowell reported that the General Plan continues to be a priority. He asked the Planning
19   Commission to consider what constitutes a gateway in Bluffdale. They should also address what
20   Redwood Road should look like in areas where there are older homes and the area of 14600 South.
21
22   Commissioner Luker asked about the status of the hotel. Mr. Crowell stated that it is still in the
23   conceptual stage. Progress was being made on the Bringhurst Station buildings.
24
25   5.     Adjournment.
26
27   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 8:30 p.m.
28
29
30
31   __________________________________
32   Tiffini Shinsel, Development Coordinator
33
34   Approved: _________________________




                                                       12
•
•


•
•

•
•
•
•
•
                                      BLUFFDALE CITY
                                     ORDINANCE 2021-06

        WHEREAS,

        WHEREAS,

        WHEREAS,

        WHEREAS,

       NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of Bluffdale City, in the State of
Utah, as follows:


     SECTION 1:        AMENDMENT “11.150 SITE PLANS AND DESIGN
REQUIREMENTS” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                        AMEN DMEN T

11.150 SITE PLANS AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS



      SECTION 2:           AMENDMENT “11.90.020.040 Lot Width” of the Bluffdale
Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                        AMEN DMEN T

11.90.020.040 Lot Width

There shall be no minimum width requirement in the GC-1 zone., except that any parcel
smaller in width than the average of the parcels on that block shall be reviewed and approved
by the city council. If the city council finds that the width is inefficient or undesirable, the city
council may require that the massing, uses and other design characteristics be compatible with
surrounding uses. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)



       SECTION 3:            AMENDMENT “11.90.020.050 Lot Frontage” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                        AMEN DMEN T

11.90.020.050 Lot Frontage



                                                Page 1
There shall be no minimum frontage requirement in the GC-1 zone., except that any parcel
with less frontage than the average of the parcels on that block shall be reviewed and approved
by the city council. If the city council finds that the frontage is inefficient or undesirable, the
city council may require that the massing, uses and other design characteristics may be
compatible with surrounding uses. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)



       SECTION 4:           AMENDMENT “11.90.020.070 Projections Into Setbacks” of
the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                       AMEN DMEN T

11.90.020.070 Projections Into Setbacks

     A. Permitted: The following structures may be erected on or projected into any required
        setback:
              1. Fences and walls in conformance with all applicable City ordinances and
                 resolutions.
              2. Appropriate landscaping.
              3. Necessary appurtenances for utility service.
     B. Setback Areas: The following structures may be erected on or projected into any
        required front or rear setback not more than four feet (4'), and into a side setback not
        more than two feet (2'):
              1. Cornices, eaves, sills, buttresses or other similar architectural features.
              2. Awnings, decks and planter boxes.
     C. No projections are allowed into a required land use buffer. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-
        2000)



       SECTION 5:            AMENDMENT “11.90.020.080 Building Height
Requirements” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                       AMEN DMEN T

11.90.020.080 Building Height Requirements

A primary building or structure may not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height, nor be lower
than ten feet (10') in height. , unless reviewed and approved by the Fire Chief and the City
Council. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)




                                              Page 2
       SECTION 6:            AMENDMENT “11.20.020 General Definitions” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                       AMEN DMEN T

11.20.020 General Definitions

The following definitions are specific to this title. If there is occasion to need interpretation of
any word or phrase not listed below, the Zoning Administrator shall provide the interpretation.

ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A subordinate and secondary building or
structure to the primary building/structure/use on the site.

ACCESSORY OUTSIDE STORAGE: Temporary storage of equipment, supplies, and
materials to support the approved use on the property. Does not include items such as
inoperable vehicles, equipment or other not maintained items.

ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION: A land use decision based on the existing City ordinances.
Such decisions by the Land Use Authority are an administrative act, even if the Land Use
Authority is the legislative body.

AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS: Includes floricultural, horticultural, viticulture, forestry, nut,
dairy, livestock, poultry and any farm products which are produced on the same property at
which they are sold.

AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT FACILITIES: Facilities, products or services, including, but
not limited to, the following:

     A. Storage of agricultural products;
     B. Meat cutting and packaging;
     C. Tree sales;
     D. Fur farms;
     E. Boarding of animals.

AGRICULTURE: Use of land for primarily farming and related purposes such as pastures,
farms, dairies, horticulture, animal husbandry, and crop production, but not the keeping or
raising of domestic pets, nor any agricultural industry or business such as meat, fruit, or other
food packing and/or processing plants, fur farms, livestock feeding operations, or animal
hospitals.

APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of dwelling, multi-family.

APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person, board, commission, agency, or other body designated
by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use application or a variance.




                                               Page 3
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY:

     A. A residential facility, licensed by the State of Utah, with a homelike setting that
        provides an array of coordinated supportive personal and healthcare services, available
        twenty four (24) hours per day, to residents who have been assessed under Utah
        Department of Health or the Utah Department of Human Services rules to need any of
        these services and who have a service plan based on the assessment, which may
        include:
              1. Specified services of intermittent nursing care;
              2. Administration of medication; and
              3. Support services promoting resident's independence and self-sufficiency.
     B. An assisted living facility does not include a residential facility for persons with a
        disability or an adult daycare provided in conjunction with a residential facility for
        elderly persons or a residential facility for persons with a disability.

AUTOMOBILE AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SALES: An establishment engaged in
the retail sale or wholesale from the premises of motorized vehicles, along with incidental
service or maintenance. Typical uses include new and used automobile and truck sales, boat
sales, recreational vehicle sales, and motorcycle sales.

AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE: An establishment providing motor vehicle repair or maintenance
services within completely enclosed buildings, including paint and body shops or other general
vehicle repair services which have associated storage, overnight or otherwise, of vehicles,
equipment, supplies, parts, or inventory in an enclosed area outside of the building.

BANK OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: An organization involved in deposit banking,
finance, investment, mortgages, trusts, and the like, but excluding uses specifically classified in
another definition herein. Typical uses include commercial banks, credit unions, finance or
mortgage companies, and savings institutions.

BAR: An establishment which allows for the storage, sale, service and on-premises
consumption of alcoholic beverages where on-premises prepared food is available for the
customer the entire time the bar is open.

BEE COLONY: A group of bees made up of a queen, drones, and workers.

BRICK: A solid masonry unit of clay or shale, formed into a rectangular prism while plastic
and burned or fired in a kiln.


BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling containing not more than one kitchen where, for
compensation, meals are provided pursuant to previous arrangements on a daily, weekly or
monthly basis, as distinguished from a hotel, cafe or rooming house.

BUILD-TO LINE: The minimum distance a primary structure must be constructed from a
property line measured to the foundation wall of the structure.




                                               Page 4
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind.

BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to that of
the main building.

BUILDING FACE: The visible outer surface of a main exterior wall of a building. The area of
the face of the building shall be the total area of such surface, including the area of doors and
windows that open into a surface.

BUILDING, MAIN: One or more of the principal buildings upon a lot. Garages, carports and
other buildings which are attached to a dwelling or other main building, or which are situated
within ten feet (10') of a main building, shall be considered as a part of the main building.

BUILDING, PUBLIC: A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be operated
by a public agency of the United States of America, of the State of Utah, or any of its
subdivisions.

BUSINESS SERVICES: An establishment completely operating within a building, providing
other businesses with various services including maintenance, repair and service, testing,
rental, etc.; also includes business equipment repair services (except vehicle repair), computer
related services (rental, repair), equipment rental businesses within buildings, film processing
and photo finishing, janitorial and window cleaning services, mailbox services and similar
uses.

CAR WASH: An establishment primarily engaged in cleaning or detailing motor vehicles,
including cars, passenger trucks, recreational vehicles, whether self-service, automatic or by
hand. This definition applies only to car washes that are the primary use of land. A car wash
associated with a gas station is not included in this definition.

CARETAKER: A person who is employed to look after or take charge of goods, property or a
person; a custodian.

CARETAKER'S DWELLING UNIT: A dwelling which is incidental to a primary use and
located on the same site as the principal use that is occupied by an individual or family which
is employed at the site in the capacity of a caretaker or watchman.

CARPORT: A structure not completely enclosed by walls for the shelter of automobiles.

CEMETERY GROUNDS AND FACILITIES: Land used or intended to be used for the
burial of the dead, whether human or animal, and ancillary uses such as administration and
maintenance buildings, funeral homes, mortuaries, crematoriums, mausoleums, and chapels.




                                              Page 5
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT RENTAL OR SALE: An establishment
engaged in the retail sale, wholesale, or rental from the premises of motorized commercial
vehicles, trailers, and equipment, along with incidental service or maintenance. Typical uses
include new or used commercial vehicle and truck sales, moving trailer and truck rental,
construction equipment rental yards and farm equipment and machinery sales and rental.

COMMON AREA: An area designated to serve two (2) or more dwelling units in separate
ownership with convenient access to the area.

COMMUNITY BUILDING: A building in which members of the community can meet for
social, cultural, or recreational activities.

COMPLETE APPLICATION: A land use application is considered submitted and complete
when the applicant provides the application in a form that complies with the requirements of
applicable ordinances and pays all applicable fees. An applicant who has submitted a complete
land use application, including the payment of all application fees, is entitled to substantive
review of the application under the land use regulations in effect on the date that the
application is complete and applicable to the application or to the information shown on the
application.

CONDITIONAL USES: A use which has been specifically permitted by the terms of this title
and which requires special consideration by the Planning Commission before a permit therefor
may be issued. Conditional use means a land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the Municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may not be
compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions are required that
mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.

CONDOMINIUM: The ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit project, together with an
undivided interest in common in the common areas and facilities of the property.

CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A plan or project whereby two (2) or more units, together with
an undivided interest in the common area or facility, are separately offered or proposed to be
offered for sale. This definition shall apply to existing or proposed apartments, commercial or
industrial buildings, or structures. Condominium project shall also mean the property when the
context so requires.

CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING: Final action(s) by the City to physically take or exact private
real property that requires compensation to the owner because of the mandates of the Fifth or
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, or of article I, section 22, of
the Utah Constitution.




                                             Page 6
CONSTRUCTION SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment engaged in the retail or
wholesale sale of materials and services used in the construction of buildings or other
structures, as well as the outdoor storage of construction equipment or materials on lots other
than construction sites. Typical uses include lumberyards, lawn and garden supply stores,
construction equipment sales and rental, electrical, plumbing, air conditioning and heating
supply stores, swimming pool sales, landscaping and property maintenance contractors' offices
and storage yards, construction and trade contractors' offices and storage yards and public
utility corporation storage yards.

CONVENIENCE STORE/GAS STATION: An establishment, not exceeding five thousand
(5,000) square feet of gross floor area, serving a limited market area and engaged in the retail
sale or rental, from the premises, of food, beverages and other frequently or recurrently needed
items for household use, which may include the sale of gasoline and petroleum products. Such
establishment may also include automatic and self-serve car washes which are accessory to the
primary use.

CONVENTION FACILITY: A building or group of buildings that include large meeting
rooms, exhibit areas, or conference rooms designed for conventions, industrial shows, or
similar events.

DATA CENTER: A facility used to house computer systems and associated components, such
as telecommunications and storage systems.

DAYCARE CENTER: See definition of "preschool/daycare center".

DENSITY: The number of dwelling units per acre of land.

DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or use
that creates additional demand and need for public facilities; any change in use of a building or
structure that creates additional demand and need for public facilities; or any change in the use
of land that creates additional demand and need for public facilities.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A contract or agreement between an applicant or property
owner and the City pursuant to the provisions in this Code and used as an implementation
document for developments.

DEVELOPMENT RIGHT: The right held by a fee simple property owner to build on a
legally established parcel of real property. This right is limited by applicable zoning ordinances.




                                              Page 7
DISABLED OR HANDICAP PERSON: A person with a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits one or more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a
record of such an impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment; a person with a
"Disability" under Utah Code 57-21; a person with a "Disability" under 42 USC § 12102(1);
and a person with a "Handicap" under 42 USC § 3602(h). A disabled or handicap person does
not include a person engaged in the current illegal use of, or addiction to, any federally-
controlled substance, as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 USC §
802.

DOCUMENTATION; DECLARATION: The legal instruments required under the provisions
of this title and applicable State law for approval of large scale development.

DORMITORY: A dwelling that primarily provides sleeping and residential quarters to
unrelated people.

DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES: Service of patrons in vehicles from a window adjacent to
a drive aisle or lane.

DWELLING: A building having one or more dwelling units occupied as, or designed or
intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, but not including hotels,
motels, boarding houses or other facilities offering transient lodging facilities.

DWELLING, CONVENTIONAL CONSTRUCTION: A dwelling that is constructed in
compliance with the provisions of the building, mechanical, electrical, plumbing and other
applicable construction codes, standards, rules and regulations as adopted by the City.

DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling containing three (3) or more dwelling units.

DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing only one dwelling unit.

DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling containing only two (2) dwelling units.

DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling designed for or occupied as separate
living quarters which provide sleeping and sanitary facilities and which include one kitchen,
where all rooms are for exclusive use by a single family maintaining a household in the
dwelling unit.

DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY: A second dwelling unit within a single-family dwelling
which is accessory to the single-family dwelling.

EQUESTRIAN FACILITY: A commercial horse facility that may include indoor or outdoor
riding arenas, pens, barns, or stables for the purpose of providing boarding, riding lessons,
shows, and training to the public. Equine veterinary services may be provided as part of an
equestrian facility. This term does not apply to private residential horse facilities.

FAMILY:




                                              Page 8
    A. One person living alone;
    B. Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or factual and
       functional equivalent living together in a single dwelling unit and maintaining a
       common household; or
    C. Not more than four (4) unrelated persons residing together as a single, nonprofit
       housekeeping unit.

FENCE, LIGHT PROOF: A fence that does not allow light to penetrate through the materials
utilized in the construction of the fence.

FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence having a height of at least six feet (6') above grade
which permits vision through not more than ten percent (10%) of each square foot more than
four eight inches (48") above ground.

FINAL PLAT; RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A plat or plats of survey of land within a
subdivision or other large scale development, which has been prepared in accordance with
applicable City standards and/or State Statutes for the purposes of recording in the Office of
the County Recorder.

FISH HATCHERY: An establishment or premises used for the cultivation of fish or other
aquatic or marine life for commercial, recreational or educational purposes.

FLOOD CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct floodwater.

FLOOD, 100-YEAR: A flood, the magnitude of which will probably occur only once in one
hundred (100) years.

FLOOR AREA: The sum of the areas of the several floors of the building, including
basements, mezzanines and penthouses of headroom height (6 feet), measured from the
exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating buildings. The floor area does not
include unoccupied features, such as pipe trenches, exterior trenches or steps, chimneys, roof
overhangs, etc.

FORESTRY OPERATION: Any commercial activity relating to the growing or harvesting of
any forest tree species.

FOSTER CARE HOME: A dwelling unit wherein room, board, care and supervision are
provided by the resident family under the approval and supervision of the State Division of
Social Services or other placement agency licensed by the State to provide for children who
are unrelated to the resident.

FRATERNITY OR SORORITY HOUSE: A dwelling in which the members of a fraternity or
sorority reside.




                                              Page 9
FRONTAGE: The length of the sides along the street or any other principal public
thoroughfare, but not including such length along an alley, watercourse, railroad, street or
thoroughfare with no permitted access.

FUNERAL HOME: An establishment engaged in preparation of funeral services. Uses may
include the preparation of the deceased for burial, for the display of the deceased and/or for
ceremonies or services related thereto. A funeral home may include facilities for embalming
and cremation. It may also include facilities for the storage of caskets, funeral supplies, and
funeral vehicles. A funeral home may also be known as a funeral parlor or a mortuary.

GARAGE, DETACHED: A building which is intended for the storage of personal property.
Occupiable space, as defined by the International Building Code, as adopted, is only allowed
for uses such as a home theater, trophy room, den, recreation room, and other similar uses for
the use of the residents of the main dwelling. This would also allow for the use of such space
as a home occupation business office.

GENERAL PLAN (MASTER PLAN): A document that the City adopts that sets forth
general guidelines for proposed future development of the land within the City.

GRADE OF BUILDING:

     A. For buildings fronting one street only, the elevation of the sidewalk or centerline of
        street, whichever is higher, at right angles to the midpoint of the fronting walls.
     B. For buildings fronting on more than one street, the average of the elevations of the
        sidewalk or centerline of surrounding streets, whichever is higher.

GRADE OF STREET AND DRIVEWAYS: "Grade" shall mean the ratio of vertical distance
to horizontal distance along such a street or driveway expressed in either percentage or degree.

GROUP LIVING ARRANGEMENTS (GLAs): A group living or congregate living
arrangement where groups of more than four (4) unrelated persons live together in a single
dwelling or housekeeping unit, including, but not limited to, assisted living unit, boarding
house, lodging house, nursing home, senior housing, assisted living facility, nursing care
facility, residential facility for the handicapped, dormitory, student housing, fraternity, club,
institutional group, halfway house, convent, monastery, or other similar group living or
congregate living arrangement of unrelated persons. A group living arrangement does not
include clinics, medical or dental; hospital(s) or hospital/clinic.

GUEST: A person staying or receiving services for compensation at a hotel, motel, boarding
house, rooming house or rest home, or similar use.

HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The weighted average vertical distance from the grade to the top of
the outside walls of the building.

HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation conducted within a dwelling and carried on by
persons residing in the dwelling.




                                                Page 10
HOSPITAL: A facility primarily engaged in providing diagnostic services and extensive
medical treatment including surgical and other hospital services. Such establishments have an
organized medical staff, inpatient beds, and equipment and facilities to provide complete or
specialized healthcare. May include accessory retail uses and helipads.

HOTEL: An establishment with or without fixed cooking facilities in individual rooms
offering transient lodging accommodations to the public, and which may provide additional
services such as restaurants and meeting rooms.

HOTEL SUBLICENSE PREMISES: An area, enclosure, or room located within a hotel for
the storage, sale, furnishing, and onpremises consumption of alcoholic beverages which has
been licensed by the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.

HOUSEHOLD PETS: Cats and dogs and other domestic animals ordinarily permitted in the
house and kept for company or pleasure and not for profit. "Household pets" shall not include
chickens, ducks, geese or other domestic farm variety animals, nor any animals which are
capable of inflicting harm or discomfort or endangering the health, safety or welfare of any
person or property.

IDENTICAL PLANS: Building plans submitted to the City that: are clearly marked as
"identical plans"; are substantially identical to building plans that were previously submitted to
and reviewed and approved by the City; and describe a building that:

     A. Is located on land zoned the same as the land on which the building described in the
        previously approved plans is located;
     B. Is subject to the same geological and meteorological conditions and the same law as
        the building described in the previously approved plans;
     C. Has a floor plan identical to the building plan previously submitted to and reviewed
        and approved by the City; and
     D. Does not require any additional engineering or analysis.

IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed under Utah Code 11-36a, Impact Fees Act.

IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: A cash escrow bond or other equivalent
security, acceptable to and required by the City, to guarantee the proper completion of
landscaping or an infrastructure improvement required as a condition precedent to:

     A. Recording a subdivision plat; or
     B. Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, or multifamily project.

IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY: An applicant's unconditional warranty that the applicant's
installed and accepted landscaping or infrastructure improvement:

     A. Complies with the City's written standards for design, materials, and workmanship;
        and
     B. Will not fail in any material respect, as a result of poor workmanship or materials,
        within the improvement warranty period.



                                              Page 11
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY PERIOD: A period:

     A. No later than one year after the City's acceptance of required landscaping; or
     B. No later than one year after the City's acceptance of required infrastructure, unless the
        Municipality:
             1. Determines for good cause that a one-year period would be inadequate to
                protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and
             2. Has substantial evidence, on record of prior poor performance by the
                applicant; or that the area upon which the infrastructure will be constructed
                contains suspect soil and the City has not otherwise required the applicant to
                mitigate the suspect soil.

INFORMATION BROCHURE: A written statement setting forth the organizational structure
of a homeowners' association, and the rights and obligations of the developers, homeowners'
association, lot owners and the City.

INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT: Permanent infrastructure that an applicant must
install:

     A. Pursuant to published installation and inspection specifications for public
        improvements; and
     B. As a condition of:
             1. Recording a subdivision plat; or
             2. Development of a commercial, industrial, mixed use, condominium, or
                multifamily project.

INTERNAL LOT RESTRICTION: A platted note, platted demarcation, or platted designation
that: runs with the land; and creates a restriction that is enclosed within the perimeter of a lot
described on the plat; or designates a development condition that is enclosed within the
perimeter of a lot described on the plat.

JUNKYARD; SALVAGE YARD: A place where scrap, waste and discarded salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled or stored,
including auto wrecking yards, used lumberyards and places or yards for storage of salvaged
house wrecking and structural steel materials and equipment; but not including places where
such uses are conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building or where salvaged
materials are kept incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the premises.

KENNEL: A commercial establishment having three (3) or more dogs or cats for the purpose
of boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire, training for fee or selling.

LAND USE APPLICANT: A property owner, or the property owner's designee, who submits
a land use application regarding the property owner's land.




                                              Page 12
LAND USE APPLICATION: An application that is required by the City and is submitted by
a land use applicant to obtain a land use decision and does not mean an application to enact,
amend, or repeal a land use regulation.

LAND USE AUTHORITY:

    A. A person, board, commission, agency, or body, including the local legislative body,
       designated by the City Council, to act upon a land use application; or
    B. If the City Council has not designated a person, board, commission, agency, or body,
       the City Council acts as the Land Use Authority by default.

LAND USE DECISION: An administrative decision of a Land Use Authority or Appeal
Authority regarding: a land use permit; a land use application; or the enforcement of a land use
regulation, land use permit, or development agreement.

LAND USE PERMIT: A permit issued by a Land Use Authority.

LAND USE PLAN: A plan adopted and maintained by the Planning Commission, which
shows how the land should be used; an element of the General Plan.

LAND USE REGULATION: A legislative decision enacted by ordinance, law, code, map,
resolution, specification, fee, or rule that governs the use or development of land; includes the
adoption or amendment of a zoning map or the text of the Zoning Code; and does not include:
a land use decision of the legislative body acting as the Land Use Authority, even if the
decision is expressed in a resolution or ordinance; or a temporary revision to an engineering
specification that does not materially: increase a land use applicant's cost of development
compared to the existing specification; or impact a land use applicant's use of land.

LANDSCAPING: The use and integration of a combination of planted trees, shrubs, vines,
ground cover, lawns, rocks, foundations, pools, artworks, screens, walls, fences, benches or
surfaced walkways set into an aesthetically pleasing arrangement. However, the use of
structures or surfaced walkways alone, in the absence of planted trees, lawns, etc., shall not
meet the requirements of this title.

LARGE ANIMALS: Cows, horses, sheep, goats, pigs or hogs, and other similar animals for
agricultural or domesticated purposes.

LAUNDRY SERVICES: An establishment providing household laundry and dry cleaning
services with customer drop off and pick up where laundering or cleaning is done on the site.
This use also includes an establishment providing home type washing, drying, and/or ironing
machines for hire or rent to be used by customers on the premises, such as a laundromat.

LEGISLATIVE BODY: The Bluffdale City Council.

LIBRARY: A building or room containing collections of books, periodicals, films, music, and
other media made available for public use.




                                              Page 13
LIQUOR STORE: A retail outlet for the sale of packaged liquor located on premises owned or
leased by the State of Utah.

LOAN CENTER: An establishment involved in providing of loans or consideration to
customers in exchange for personal property, such as property titles or personal checks. Such
services shall include check cashing businesses licensed and/or defined by the State pursuant to
the Check Cashing Registration Act, car title loan businesses, deferred deposit loan businesses,
and businesses of a similar nature offering such services as a primary function. One such
establishment shall be allowed for every twenty thousand (20,000) residents living in the City
of Bluffdale. This term shall not include fully automated stand alone services, such as
automated teller machines, nor those uses defined herein as "bank or financial institution".

LODGING HOUSE: A building containing sleeping rooms that are rented to guests on a daily
or weekly or monthly basis.

LOT AREA: The total land area of a lot or parcel measured on a horizontal plane, reduced by
the area of any of the following:

     A. Public or private street rights-of-way or the right-of-way width of any shared
        driveway, except for an approved lot of record which meets City requirements for that
        determination.

LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets where the
interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°).

LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.

LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot or parcel that divides one lot or parcel from
another or from a street.

LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of the property boundary line in a subdivision
between two (2) adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record.

LOT LINE, FRONT: A lot line separating a lot or parcel from an existing street right-of-way
or, where a new street or street widening is proposed, the proposed street right-of-way line as
shown on the master traffic and transportation plan. For an interior lot, the lot line adjoining the
street; for a corner lot, the lot line adjoining the street the direction to which the dwelling is
facing; for a double frontage lot, a lot line adjoining one of the streets as elected by the City;
for a lot accessed from a private right-of-way or access easement, the easement or right-of-way
line. Lot lines which have been recorded as internal lot restrictions on recorded plats in
accordance with adopted development agreements, special districts, Clustered Residential
Overlays, planned residential developments, or clustered residential developments shall remain
in effect.




                                               Page 14
LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front lot line. In the
case of an irregular, triangular or gore shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be a line within the lot,
parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line, having a length of at least ten
feet (10').

LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.

LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land which:

     A. Complies with all existing area, frontage, width, setback and supplementary
        requirements of the zone in which it is located.
     B. Has frontage on a City street, which street: 1) has been accepted by the City Council
        and has been improved in accordance with City standards and is in use by the public;
        or 2) has frontage on a private right-of-way within an approved large-scale
        development.
     C. Is shown as a separate lot in an approved subdivision plat or large-scale development
        plan, which plat or plan has been approved in accordance with the applicable
        ordinances or which is exempted from compliance with said ordinances.

MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or more sections that: a) in the
traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in
length, or when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or more square feet; and b) is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems.

MANUFACTURING, GENERAL: An establishment engaged in the manufacture of finished
products or parts, predominantly from previously prepared materials, including processing,
fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging, and incidental storage, sales and/or distribution
of such products, but excluding basic industrial processing and manufacturing activities.

MANUFACTURING, LIMITED: An establishment engaged in the limited processing,
fabrication, assembly and/or packaging of products utilizing processes that:

     A. Have no noise, odor, vibration, or other impacts discernible outside a building; and
     B. Do not violate any applicable noise ordinance.

MASTER PLAN: See definition of General Plan (Master Plan).

MEDICAL SERVICE/URGENT CARE CLINIC: An establishment providing therapeutic,
preventive, urgent care, or corrective personal treatment services on an outpatient basis by
physicians, dentists, and other practitioners of the medical or healing arts, as well as the
provision of medical testing and analysis services.

MILL (STEEL AND WOOD, EXCEPT BURNING): A facility used to grind, work, treat, or
shape wood or steel into a manufactured product.



                                                Page 15
MINES, QUARRIES AND GRAVEL PITS: An operation centered around the removal of
sand, gravel, dirt, or other materials by grading or excavating.

MITIGATE: To reduce or lessen the impacts. Mitigate does not mean eliminate.

MOBILE HOME: A dwelling unit which complies with the Mobile Home Building Code as
adopted by the State of Utah, and which is designed to be transported, after fabrication, on its
own wheels or on detachable wheels and which is ready for occupancy as an independent
dwelling unit, except for connection to utilities. The term "mobile home" shall also include any
vehicle meeting the above description which is used for an office, classroom, laboratory,
processing, manufacturing, retail sales or other such use, but shall not include a recreation
vehicle or a mobile appearing house which complies with the City adopted Building,
Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing Codes.

MOBILE HOME PARK: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or more
mobile homes.

MOVIE THEATER: A facility which includes one or more theaters for the presentation of
motion pictures. May also include accessory retail uses and concessions.

MUNICIPAL OFFICES: A room or building where official functions of the City of Bluffdale
or any City department are performed, but not including maintenance or storage facilities or
yards.

MUSEUM: A building or room in which objects of historical, scientific, artistic, or cultural
interest are stored and exhibited.

NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that legally existed before its current land use
designation; and because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does not
conform to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding those regulations,
which govern the use of land.

NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land that legally existed before its current land use
designation; has been maintained continuously since the time the land use ordinance governing
the land changed; and because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes, does
not conform to the regulations that now govern the use of the land.

NURSERY: An establishment for the retail or wholesale sale of plants, flowers, trees, shrubs,
garden plants, bushes, landscaping materials, or similar plantings including materials, tools,
implements, equipment, and packaged substances for the maintenance and care of such
plantings intended for ornamental, garden, or landscaping purposes. Typical uses include
greenhouses, garden centers not in conjunction with another use, permanent tree lots, and
garden supply stores. Typical uses do not include sod farms or storage sites for landscaping
materials.




                                             Page 16
NURSING HOME: An intermediate care/nursing facility or a skilled nursing facility for the
care of adults who due to advance age, disability, or impairment require assistance and/or
supervision by staff. Such facility does not include adult daycare provided in conjunction with
a residential facility for elderly persons or a residential facility for persons with a disability.

OFF SITE: Of or pertaining to the territory outside of the boundaries of a particular project.

OFFICE, GENERAL: A building, room or department where executive, management,
administrative or professional services are provided, except medical services, and excluding the
sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a principal use. Typical uses include real estate
brokers, insurance agencies, credit reporting agencies, property management firms, investment
firms, employment agencies, travel agencies, advertising agencies, secretarial services, data
processing, call centers; Post Offices and express mail offices as an accessory or
complementary use to a professional and business office development, but excluding major
mail processing and distribution; offices for utility bill collection; professional or consulting
services in the fields of law, architecture, design, engineering, accounting and similar
professions; interior decorating consulting services; and business offices of private companies,
utility companies, public agencies, trade associations, unions and nonprofit organizations.

ON SITE: Of or pertaining to the territory within the boundaries of a particular project.

OPEN SPACE: Land which is open from the ground upward and which is not covered by
dwellings or other buildings, or by pavement or other impervious material.

OPEN SPACE EASEMENT: The right or privilege to preserve a specific parcel of land in
open space.

OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION AGREEMENT: An agreement between the City and a
property owner in which the property owner agrees for himself and his successors and assigns
to refrain from constructing dwellings and other buildings on a specific parcel of land for a
specific period of time.

OPEN STORAGE: The storage of materials and goods not within an enclosed structure for
more than seventy two (72) hours. This includes the storage of inoperable vehicles for
automobile-related primary uses.

PARK STRIP: A landscaped area within a public right-of-way, located between the back of
the street curb and the sidewalk or in the absence of the sidewalk, the right-of-way line.

PARKING SPACE: A space, not less than eighteen feet (18') in length and not less than eight
and five-tenths feet (8.5') in width for the parking of a mobile vehicle, exclusive of driveways
and ramps.

PARKS: A playground or other area or open space providing opportunities for active or
passive recreational or leisure activities.




                                               Page 17
PAWNSHOP: An establishment that buys and sells new or used merchandise, and offers loans
in exchange for personal property. This differs from consignment or thrift shops, which do not
offer loans in exchange for personal property.

PERMITTED USE: A use of land, building or structure that is allowed within a zone under
the terms of this title.

PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership, association, trustee or other legal entity.

PERSONAL INSTRUCTION SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the
provision of informational, instructional, personal improvement and similar services of a
nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include art and music schools, driving and computer
instruction, gymnastic and dance studios, handicraft or hobby instruction, health and fitness
studios, massage therapist instruction, martial arts training, and swimming clubs.

PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment providing nonmedical
services to individuals as a primary use. Examples of these uses include barbershops, beauty
salons, day/health spa, hair salons, nail salons, shoe repair shops, tanning salons, tailors and
similar businesses not including tattoo establishments.

PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land that is planned and developed as a
single entity and wherein part of the land facilities are held in common.

PLANTING PLAN: A plan showing the location and dimensions of plants, irrigation
equipment, curbs and other protective features around the edge of the planting beds and the
location and species of plants to be planted.

PORTABLE BUILDING: Any small, compact structure mounted on skids or otherwise
constructed so that it can be readily moved from one location to another without change in
structure or design. Portable buildings shall have no connected utilities with the exception of
power that can be readily disconnected.

PORTABLE HOME: A mobile dwelling unit which is less than four hundred (400) square
feet, but not less than two hundred (200) square feet, in floor area and is permanently attached
to a towable trailer.

PREMISES: A zoning lot, together with buildings and structures located thereon.

PRESCHOOL/DAYCARE CENTER: An establishment, other than an occupied dwelling,
operated by a person or organization qualified by the State, which provides daycare, protection
or supervision and/or preschool instruction.

PRIMARY: The main use or structure on a parcel. Accessory uses are not to be defined as
primary uses.

PRINTING SHOPS: The production of books, magazines, newspapers and other printed
matter, as well as publishing, engraving and photoengraving.



                                              Page 18
PRIVATE HOBBY GARAGE DEVELOPMENT: A development consisting of individual
condominiumized personal hobby garage units for non-retail use. Each development must
contain no more than sixty (60) hobby garage units and each unit must be a minimum of one
thousand (1,000) square feet and cannot be subdivided into smaller units. Subject to additional
supplementary zoning standards in section 11-16-27 of this title.

PROPERTY LINE (Also Referred To As LOT LINE): A line of record bounding a lot or
parcel that divides one lot or parcel from another or from a street, private right-of-way, or
shared driveway.

PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.

PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public, and may or may not
include public input, under Utah Code 52-4, Open and Public Meetings Act.

PUBLIC USES: A facility or use, exclusive of public utility facilities, owned or operated
exclusively by a public entity, having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general
welfare. Public uses include such uses and facilities as libraries, community buildings, schools,
fire stations, police stations, etc.

PYGMY GOATS: Pygmy goats include dwarf and pygmy breed goats as well as miniature
goats (a standard goat bred to a dwarf or pygmy goat).

RECEPTION CENTER: A facility rented for private social gatherings.

RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT (INDOOR): A commercial recreational land use
conducted entirely within a building, including arcade, arena, athletic and health clubs,
bowling alley, community center, gymnasium, pool or billiard hall, skating rink, swimming
pool, tennis court or similar indoor facility. Related indoor uses may include a retail area for the
sale or rental of equipment and a snack bar.

RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT (OUTDOOR): An area or facility that offers
entertainment or recreation outside. This use may include, but not be limited to, a golf driving
range, baseball batting cages, riding arenas, tennis facilities, water sports facilities, cycling
facilities, and miniature golf, and may include, as accessory uses, associated eating and
drinking areas, retail sales areas and staff offices.

RECREATION VEHICLE: A vehicle used or maintained primarily as a temporary dwelling
for travel, vacation or recreation purposes; having a width of not more than eight feet (8') and a
length of not more than forty feet (40'), and which can be driven or pulled upon the highway
without a special permit.

RECREATION VEHICLE COURT: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or
more vacation vehicles or camper units for a short period of time (less than 30 days).




                                               Page 19
REPAIR SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in providing repair services to
individuals and households rather than firms, but excluding automotive, vehicular and
equipment services uses. Typical uses include appliance repair shops, computer and other
electronic equipment repair, furniture repair and upholstery shops, watch or jewelry repair
shops, and musical instrument repair shops.

REQUIRED YARD: The yard resulting from the application of the minimum setback
requirements within the zone.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT LABORATORIES: An establishment engaged in
industrial, medical, or scientific inquiries.

RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A building or other structure which is
incidental to and which is constructed on the same zoning lot as the dwelling for the exclusive
use of the residents of such dwelling, including, but not limited to, a detached garage, pergolas,
tennis courts and private greenhouses.

RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE HANDICAPPED: Any facility that provides, or
seeks to provide, housing or treatment to five (5) or more persons with a handicap.

REST HOME: A dwelling for the care and keeping of elderly or infirm people affected with
infirmities or chronic illness. To qualify, said dwelling unit must be approved to operate by the
State Division of Social Services or other State agency.

RESTAURANT: A facility where food and drink is prepared and served to the public for on
site consumption (dine in), takeout, or delivery service. A restaurant may include a drive-
through.

RETAIL, GENERAL: An establishment that rents or sells goods to the public but excluding
uses specifically classified in another definition herein. Typical uses include apparel stores,
antique shops, art and hobby supply stores, bicycle shops, bookstores, clothing rental stores,
department stores, discount stores, drugstores, electronic appliance stores, florists, food stores,
furniture and appliance stores, gift and novelty shops, glass and mirror shops, hardware stores,
home improvement centers, jewelry stores, medical supply stores, music stores, optical retail
sales, paint stores, pet stores, photocopying and blueprinting shops, photography supply stores,
record, tape and video stores, sporting goods stores, toy stores and variety stores.

RETIREMENT CENTER: See definition of "nursing home".

SALVAGE YARD: See definition of junkyard; salvage yard.

SCHOOL: A building or group of buildings housing a public or private school serving at least
two (2) of any of the grades K through 12, and does not exclusively include any privately
owned or run preschool for children, but which may include a preschool as an accessory or
secondary use to the school.




                                              Page 20
SETBACK: The shortest distance between the lot line and the outside surface of the
foundation, wall or main frame of the building.

SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES: See title 3, chapter 5, "Sexually Oriented
Businesses", of this Code.

SIGNS: See Chapter 11.220 for additional definitions pertaining to signs and sign permit
administration.

SIGN, ELECTRONIC DISPLAY (EDS): Any non-appurtenant advertising structure, or
portion thereof, that displays electronic images, graphics or pictures, with or without textual
information. Such a non-appurtenant advertising structure has the capability of being changed
or altered by electronic means on a fixed display screen composed of a series of lights,
including light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, plasma displays, light bulbs, or other
illumination devices within the display area where the message is displayed. Electronic display
signs include computer programmable, microprocessor controlled electronic or digital displays.

SIGN, NON-APPURTENANT: Any sign which advertises products, services or business
establishments which are not located, conducted, manufactured or sold upon the same premises
upon which the sign is erected.

SIGN, NON-APPURTENANT ADVERTISING STRUCTURE (BILLBOARD): A non-
appurtenant sign, commonly referred to as a billboard, that is mounted or otherwise affixed to a
pylon or other support structure.

SIGN, NONACCESSORY; BILLBOARD: A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than on the
premises, and only incidentally on the premises, if at all.

SIGN, NONCONFORMING: Any sign or non-appurtenant advertising structure which was
lawfully erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the purview of this
chapter, and any amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations
and restrictions of this chapter.

SLOPE: The average grade of the surface of land expressed either in percentage or in degrees.

SNOW SHACK/SHAVE ICE STAND: A seasonal business selling ice-based desserts which
may operate between May 1 and September 30 and shall follow all standards and regulations
as set forth by the Salt Lake County Health Department.

STORAGE FACILITY: A building which is intended for the storage of personal property as
an accessory use to a permitted use. Occupiable space, as defined by the International Building
Code, as adopted, is only allowed for uses such as a home theater, trophy room, den, recreation
room, and other similar uses for the use of the residents of the main dwelling. This would also
allow for the use of such space as a home occupation business office.




                                             Page 21
STORAGE UNITS: A storage facility of a commercial nature containing independent, fully
enclosed bays which are leased to persons exclusively for storage of their household goods or
personal property. Where permitted, may include a caretaker dwelling no larger than one
thousand (1,000) square feet.

STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and the ceiling next
above it.

STREET: A public or private right-of-way, including avenues, highways, boulevards,
parkways, roads, lanes, walks, alleys, viaducts, subways, tunnels, bridges, public easements,
shared private driveways and other ways, that provides access to adjoining property.

STREET, MAJOR: A road that has been designated on the City master plan as a collector,
arterial or other principal thoroughfare as distinguished from a minor street.

STREET, MINOR: Any dedicated street serving as the principal means of access to property,
which street is shown on the major street plan as a principal thoroughfare.

STREET, PRIVATE: A right-of-way or shared private driveway which has been reserved by
dedication unto the subdivider, lot owners, or homeowners' association to be used as a private
access to serve property and complying with the adopted street, private right-of-way, or private
shared driveway cross section standards of the City. All private streets shall be approved by the
City and maintained by the subdivider or other private entity.

STREET, PUBLIC: A roadway that has been designated as a Federal or State highway, or
which has been designated as a City street.

STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires a fixed location on or in the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground and which imposes an
impervious material on or above the ground; definition includes "building".

SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two (2)
or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon
any and all other plans, terms, and conditions. "Subdivision" includes: the division or
development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy, map,
plat, or other recorded instrument; and except as provided in Utah Code § 10-9A-103(57)(c),
divisions of land for residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for
commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.




                                              Page 22
"Subdivision" does not include: a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of unsubdivided
agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor the parcel remaining from the
division or partition violates an applicable land use ordinance; a recorded agreement between
owners of adjoining unsubdivided properties adjusting their mutual boundary if: no new lot is
created; and the adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances; a recorded
document, executed by the owner of record: revising the legal description of more than one
contiguous unsubdivided parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all such
parcels of property; or joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property that
has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate applicable land use ordinances; mutual
boundary if: no new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment; and the
adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance; a bona fide division or partition
of land by deed or other instrument where the Land Use Authority expressly approves in
writing the division in anticipation of further land use approvals on the parcel or parcels; or, a
parcel boundary adjustment. The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a subdivision under Utah Code § 10-
9A-103(57) as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the unsubdivided parcel to the
City's subdivision ordinance.

SUBSTANTIAL CONSTRUCTION OR DEVELOPMENT: All grading, excavation,
construction, grubbing, mining, or other development activity which disturbs or changes the
natural vegetation, grade, or any existing structure, or the act of adding an addition to an
existing structure, or the erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property.

SWIMMING POOL: A portable or permanent structure above or below grade, designed to
hold water eighteen inches (18") deep or greater and/or one hundred (100) square feet or
greater surface area and which will be designed or used for swimming, wading or immersion
purposes by individuals, used or intended to be used solely by the owner, lessee or tenant
thereof and his family and by friends invited to use it without payment of any fees, except for
approved home occupation.

TATTOO ESTABLISHMENT: Any facility where tattooing is performed or any business
engaged in tattooing, except for permanent cosmetics.

TEMPORARY DWELLING: A recreational vehicle or portable home that is mobile and non-
permanent in nature which may be connected to utilities and temporarily occupied during the
construction of a new detached single family home.

TEMPORARY USES: Uses which are proposed to exist for a relatively short period of time
and are not permanent in nature.

TENDER: An offer or proposal made for acceptance.

TIME AND TEMPERATURE DEVICE: Any mechanism that displays the time and/or
temperature, but does not display any commercial advertising or identification.




                                               Page 23
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette; chewing tobacco; any
substitute for a tobacco product, including flavoring or additives to tobacco; and tobacco
paraphernalia.

TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-8-41.6, a commercial
establishment in which the sale of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty five percent
(35%) of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment; food and beverage products,
excluding gasoline sales, is less than forty five percent (45%) of the total annual gross receipts
for the establishment; and the establishment is not licensed as a pharmacy.

TRADE OR TECHNICAL SCHOOLS: An establishment, for profit or not, conducting a
course of instruction, training, or retraining to prepare individuals to follow an occupation or
trade offering regularly scheduled instruction in technical, commercial or trade skills, such as,
but not limited to, business, real estate, building and construction trades, electronics, computer
programming and technology, automotive and aircraft mechanics and technology, and similar
types of instruction.

TRAILS: A designated path which may be paved or unpaved, intended to be used by a variety
of users (excluding motorized vehicles) for transportation or recreational purposes.

UNNECESSARY HARDSHIP: A general restriction placed upon a lot with respect to setback
or area where, by reason of an exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape or topography of
such lot, a literal enforcement of the general restrictions would result in an unfairness to the
owner compared to the owner of other lots in the same zone and which literal enforcement
would be unnecessary in order to achieve the intent of the zone.

VARIANCE: A reduction of a frontage, setback, area or improvement requirements to a level
which is less than that which is specifically set forth in this title.

VETERINARY SERVICE: An establishment providing medical care and treatment for
animals, which may include accessory grooming or boarding services.

WHOLESALE AND WAREHOUSING: An establishment that is primarily engaged in the
storage and sale of goods to customers or other businesses for resale, as well as activities
involving significant movement and storage of products or equipment. Uses include major
distribution centers, frozen food lockers, moving and storage firms, and warehousing facilities.

YARD: The open space area on a lot or parcel, except for permitted protections and
landscaping, encompassing the territory between the outer wall of the building and the closest
opposite property line and extending the full width or depth, as appropriate, of the lot or parcel.

ZONING DISTRICT: An area identified on the official zoning map to which a uniform set of
regulations applies as set forth herein, which districts are co-terminus with, and which are
designed to implement the City of Bluffdale General Plan.

ZONING MAP, OFFICIAL: The map adopted by the City Council depicting the geographic
scope of the City's land use designations. (Ord. 2018-24, 9-26-2018)



                                               Page 24
       SECTION 7:            AMENDMENT “11.90.020.120 Project Plan Approval” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.90.020.120 ProjectSite Plan Approval Required

    A. Any request for project site plan approval in the GC-1 Zone is subject to any and all
       applicable City resolutions and ordinances, including the subdivision ordinance,
       design guidelines and standard specifications, and the City General Plan.Projects in the
       GC-1 Zone will be reviewed and approved in accordance with chapter 15 of this title.
       codes and adopted standards. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)



       SECTION 8:            AMENDMENT “11.90.020.130 Other Requirements” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.90.020.130 Other Requirements

The following additional requirements are in addition to the requirements found in this article,
the general provisions or supplementary provisions of this title, or any other applicable
resolution or ordinanceapply to development in the GC-1 zone:

Signs: Signs are allowed in the GC-1 Zone in accordance with chapter 22 of this title. (Ord.
10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

    A. Landscaping: Each lot or parcel shall be completely landscaped, except those areas
       used for buildings or parking. A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the total area of
       the lot or parcel shall be landscaped. Individual lots or parcels located in a
       development consisting of a landscaped common area may contain less than twenty
       percent (20%) landscaping so long as twenty percent (20%) of the total developed
       project area is landscaped at any time during the phasing of development pursuant to
       an approved phasing plan. All landscaping shall comply with the landscaping and
       design requirements in section 11-15-511.150.050 of this title. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-22-
       2015)
    B. Trash, Junk And Other Debris: No trash, used materials, stored construction materials,
       excess inventory, unsightly storage of any kind, or non-licensed or abandoned vehicles
       shall be stored in an open area. All such materials shall be enclosed in a building. or, if
       deemed appropriate by the City, by a sight obscuring fence.
    C. Design Guidelines for Community Gateways: In addition to the general design
       guidelines for all site plans and buildings found in Chapter 11.150 of the BCC, the



                                              Page 25
following additional requirements apply to all GC-1 zoned properties located adjacent
to 2700 West, 13900 S, 14000 South, and Redwood Road as follows:
     1. Buildings fronting directly on 2700 West, 14000 South, and Redwood Road -
        including corner lots - shall not exceed 25 feet in height. Ornamental features,
        such as decorative roof elements, arches, or entry features may be allowed up
        to 30 feet in height in these areas.
              a. Second stories may be allowed - up to the maximum height allowed
                 in the zone - when the second story is developed into office space,
                 general retail, or restaurant use as a full story.
     2. Buildings on parcels which do not have any frontage on 2700 West, 14000
        South, and Redwood Road may utilize the full maximum height allowance in
        the GC-1 zone.
     3. The maximum building size for buildings directly fronting along 2700 West,
        14000 South, and Redwood Road is 20,000 square feet, except that single
        user retail buildings, which are not subdivided into smaller condominium units
        or leasable spaces, such as stand-alone grocery stores, pharmacies, hardware
        stores, clothing stores, or substantially similar single user retail buildings, may
        be allowed up to 40,000 square feet.
     4. In addition to City design requirements for windows, transparency and glazing
        found in Chapter 11.150 of the BCC, primary building elevations along 2700
        West, 14000 South, 13900 South, and Redwood Road shall have a minimum
        of forty percent (40%) transparency or window glazing within the first nine
        (9) feet of the structure; above that, the remaining facade area shall have a
        minimum of 15% windows or glazing. Other facades in the GC-1 zone shall
        have a minimum fifteen percent (15%) window requirement, which can
        include the use of clerestory windows where high ceilings exist. Mirrored
        glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor. Spandrel glass or faux
        windows may be utilized to meet this requirement where not feasible due to
        building structural design limitations to be transparent. Where spandrel glass
        or faux windows are not feasible due to architectural or structural limitations,
        an applicant may apply for a deviation from strict compliance pursuant to
        BCC 11.150.060(E).
              a. Glass garage doors, including opaque glass, may be used to calculate
                 and qualify for this requirement.
              b. Where a facade is not visible from any public street or highway, based
                 on a site specific visual analysis of before and post construction
                 conditions, submitted by the applicant and reviewed by Staff, no
                 minimum window percentage is required. However, provision of
                 natural light into the building is strongly encouraged.
     5. The term brick, when used in this Title and Chapter, is as defined as brick in
        11.20 of the BCC, which is a kiln-fired product. Brick shall not be painted.
     6. Brick shall be utilized as a primary visible exterior material in building
        construction which fronts 2700 West and Redwood Road and the street sides
        of corner lots on 13900 South, 14000 South, and Porter Rockwell Boulevard.
        Brick or thin brick veneers applied may qualify, and shall be constructed with




                                      Page 26
    a minimum of fifty percent (50%) brick on each street facing façade in these
    areas, including canopy supports for gas station pump islands. Windows shall
    be excluded from the calculation of exterior building material requirements.
    Manufactured (not kiln-fired), Nichiha patterned brick composite material, or
    imprinted dry-vit, eifs, or similar stucco type, patterned or stenciled as brick do
    not meet the definition of brick.
 7. Along 14000 South, on buildings which are not located on corner lots on
    2700 West, and in other areas and facades within the GC-1 zone not
    specifically identified in this section, brick materials shall make up a minimum
    of 25% of each facade. Brick shall be utilized as wainscot, window lintels and
    sills, quoins, columns, decorative features, and/or emphasizing building
    entrances.
           a. When utilized as an exterior material, concrete masonry units (CMU)
              must be colored and feature decorative or architectural finishes such
              as honed, scored, offset, split faced, or exposed aggregate. Gray
              CMU block is not an acceptable finished material and shall not be
              permitted on any finished building elevation with the exception of
              minimal foundation exposure. CMU shall not be painted.
           b. When CMU is utilized as the primary exterior material, brick may be
              reduced to a secondary material required to be placed on 10% of the
              exterior surfaces of the facades.
           c. Pre-engineered buildings, constructed of insulated metal panels
              (IMP's) - not pre-engineered corrugated metal buildings - shall not
              expose any metal panels which do not have architectural finishes,
              such as embossing, striation, wood grain, and other textured finishes,
              and shall comply with all other architectural standards in this chapter
              and Title. Paint only is not considered an architectural finish for
              IMP's.
           d. Where a facade is not visible from any public street or highway, based
              on a site specific visual analysis of before and post construction
              conditions, submitted by the applicant and reviewed by Staff, no
              minimum brick percentage is required on that facade.
 8. Additional secondary building materials may include: brick, stone,
    fiber/cement composite siding, architectural metal panels with reveals, CMU,
    exposed and patterned concrete, wood or similar material in composition and
    of a complementary hue and shade to the brick. A maximum of two (2) accent
    colors may be allowed for secondary materials. Stucco/EIFS/Dry-Vit type
    systems may be used to accent building design and for wall signage areas in a
    percentage not to exceed 10% of any one building façade.
 9. Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to the brick or
    CMU included in the primary or secondary façade material and shall generally
    be subtle, subdued, low reflectance, neutral, or earth tones. White is not
    allowed as a primary building color.
10. Brick, rock, CMU, and stone elements of a building shall not be painted to
    create compliance with the color palette of the site.




                                  Page 27
11. Four-sided architectural design is required. The design of a building shall be
    considered on all sides of the building with each facade being required to meet
    the terms of this section and Title.
12. Overhead and garage doors, truck bays, loading areas, and truck bays shall
    not face 2700 West, 13900 South, 14000 South, Redwood Road, Porter
    Rockwell Boulevard, or Bangerter Highway and shall have architectural
    treatment or painting which includes colors complimentary to the building
    design (not white) and which include glass and windows. Overhead and
    garage doors and truck bays shall be substantially screened from view from
    public streets and adjacent residential areas through the use of architectural
    concrete block walls, concrete panel walls, sight obscuring landscaped berms,
    and enhanced landscaping materials and plant types, such as clustered
    plantings, additional evergreen trees, and installation of materials of larger
    stature.
13. Architectural variations and relief in building walls and rooflines is required
    every 50 feet. Variations should imply an undulation in wall surface or
    additional architectural elements that break up the large surface into smaller
    sections.
14. Buildings shall have a pronounced relationship to the public street and any
    public spaces.
15. Building entrances shall orient toward the streets and shall be accessed from a
    public sidewalk. Where a public sidewalk is not adjacent, the site plan shall
    clearly delineate a safe pedestrian walkway from the closest public sidewalk to
    the building entrance. The entrance shall be designed to be clearly visible, and
    functional.
16. Building Placement: Building placement is integral to the site design and the
    overall effect any development has on surrounding properties. Building
    placement shall be carefully considered as part of the overall development
    review.
          a. All buildings shall be located with the main facade facing the
             principal street to which it has frontage, except that tandem buildings
             with an internal street layout and parking may be constructed
             perpendicular to 2700 West. In this case, the building facade on 2700
             West and the internal street shall be considered primary facades.
          b. Buildings located on corner lots shall orient main facades to each
             street and give architectural treatment to each consistent with this
             Chapter.
          c. Buildings located on corner lots should include a prominent
             architectural feature of greater height or emphasis at the corner where
             the two (2) public streets meet.
          d. Buildings should be located as close to the front property line as
             possible considering site, use, parking, landscaping requirements, and
             other constraints or requirements.
          e. Main entrances shall be oriented toward the street rather than parking




                                 Page 28
                     where feasible.
        17. The following are encouraged brick features for all commercial buildings
            identified in this section:
                  a. Decorative brick quoins
                  b. Brick columns
                  c. Brick accent walls or wainscot
        18. Design shall encourage comfortable and safe pedestrian use, including
            landscaping, seating areas, walkways, and lighting.
        19. Street trees with an emphasis on deciduous shade providing species, rather
            than ornamental, shall be placed in all parkstrips by developer in spacing
            recommended for the individual species. Where parkstrips do not exist, shade
            tree species shall be placed as close to the sidewalk as practicable to provide a
            street tree appearance.
        20. Lighting should be designed to minimize the number of poles used within the
            parking area with preferred methods being building mounted lights or bollard
            type lighting. Pedestrian pathways shall be illuminated using bollard lighting,
            when lit separately from other approved site or building lighting.
        21. Outdoor amenities are required for every development on a site with a
            combined building floor area totaling thirty thousand (30,000) square feet or
            greater. Outdoor amenities, which can be designed within required
            landscaping plans are designed for employees and customers. Amenities shall
            at least create outside seating areas, and may include plazas or other focal
            points that are inviting to site patrons. These amenities shall be located near
            focal points and areas where employees may congregate within the
            development where they will be convenient and comfortable for users.
        22. The City Council may require specific design guidelines be employed in the
            project if it can be reasonably shown that the materials, colors or elevations of
            the buildings could have a significant impact on the existing or future
            atmosphere of the area, and to improve compatibility. The design guidelines
            may include, but are not limited to, architectural controls, colors, materials,
            building mass, innovative design of buildings and access, and any other
            features deemed appropriate by the City Council.
D. Large Buildings: Any building larger than forty thousand (40,000) square feet in the
   GC-1 Zone shall be designed to have main entrances on at least two (2) prominently
   visible sides of the building, preferably front and back. This requirement is intended to
   produce a more attractive building on all sides, not just the front, and to improve traffic
   flow.
E. Pollution: No dust, odor, smoke, vibration, intermittent light, glare or noise shall be
   emitted which is discernible beyond the premises, except for normal traffic
   movements. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)




                                         Page 29
       SECTION 9:            AMENDMENT “11.120.030 Parking Spaces Required” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.120.030 Parking Spaces Required

Off street parking shall be provided as follows for all new buildings and structures, or
enlargement of any existing buildings or structures. Should the required parking stalls as
calculated using the following standards end in a fraction, the standard shall be rounded up to
the next whole number.

TABLE A

Amusement centers, recreation
centers, reception centers, health 1 parking space for every 200 square feet of floor space.
clubs and similar uses
                                    4 parking spaces per service bay or 1 parking space for each
Automobile repair facilities
                                    800 feet of floor space, whichever is greater.
Bars, liquor stores or taverns      1 space for every 200 square feet of floor space.
                                    2 parking spaces for tenants and 1 space for each
Bed and breakfast, or inn
                                    guestroom.
Business office                     1 parking space for each 300 square feet of floor area.
                                    2 parking spaces, plus at least 3 stacking spaces per
Car wash
                                    washing bay.
Churches                            1 parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area.
                                    1 parking space per 6 people based on the maximum
Daycare center
                                    allowable occupancy.
                                    1 parking space for every 200 square feet of floor space.
Gas stations/convenience stores     Pumping areas are not to be included in the parking
                                    calculation.
Government buildings                1 parking space for every 400 square feet of floor space.
Grocery stores, drugstores,
                                    1 parking space per 200 square feet of floor space.
convenience stores
Hospitals                           1 parking space for each 400 square feet of floor space.
                                    2 parking spaces, plus 1 parking space for each sleeping
Hotel/motel                         unit.If the hotel/motel has conference rooms, the City may
                                    require additional off street parking.




                                             Page 30
                                  1 parking space for every 10,000 square feet of floor space,
Industrial manufacturing          plus parking for office uses, consistent with the requirement
                                  for business office in this section.
                                  1 parking space for every 400 square feet of floor space,
Manufacturing                     plus parking for office uses, consistent with business office
                                  in this section.
Mortuaries                        1 parking space for each 100 square feet of floor space.
Movie theaters                    1 parking space for every 4 seats.
Nursing home or convalescent      1 parking space for each employee and 1 space for each 5
center                            beds.
Professional offices, medical and
                                  1 parking space for every 200 square feet of floor space.
dental offices
Professional services,
barbershops, beauty shops, travel 1 parking space for every 200 square feet of floor space.
agencies
Residential dwellings:
                                  2 parking spaces per dwelling unit enclosed in garage. 20
Single-family/two-family
                                  foot minimum driveway required.
Single-family on shared           2 parking spaces per dwelling unit enclosed in garage.
driveway (auto court)             Guest parking: 1 guest parking space per 3 dwelling units.
                                  2 parking spaces per dwelling unit enclosed in garage. 20
Multi-family/condominium/
                                  foot minimum driveway required. Guest parking: 1 guest
townhome with a driveway
                                  parking space per 4 dwelling units.
Multi-family/condominium/         2 parking spaces per dwelling unit enclosed in garage.
townhome without a driveway       Guest parking: 1 guest parking space per 3 dwelling units.
                                  2 parking spaces per 1 or 2 bedroom units. 2.5 parking
Apartments
                                  spaces per 3 or more bedroom units.
                                  1 space for each 4 seats, plus 3 stacking spaces for
Restaurants
                                  restaurants with drive-up windows.
Retail sales, furniture,
                                  1 space for each 600 square feet of floor space.
appliances, hardware
Schools:
Elementary                        2 parking spaces for each classroom.
                                  1 parking space for each employee and 1 space for every 4
Secondary, higher education
                                  students (calculated at capacity of the facility).
                                  1 parking space for every 200 units with a minimum of 4
Storage units




                                            Page 31
                                    required.
                                    1 parking space for every 10,000 square feet of floor space
Warehouse                           with a minimum of 5 spaces, including required handicap
                                    spaces.

If a use not indicated above is proposed, the amount of off street parking may be determined
by the City CouncilLand Use Authority following a recommendation from staff, based on a
professionally prepared parking analysis submitted by the applicant. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-
2000; amd. Ord. 2001-04, 3-13-2001; Ord. 2010-02, 4-27-2010; Ord. 2014-04, 2-25-2014;
Ord. 2016-07, 5-25-2016; Ord. 2018-24, 9-26-2018)



       SECTION 10:            AMENDMENT “11.120.050 General Provisions” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.120.050 General Provisions

The following general provisions apply to all off street parking requirements of this chapter:

    A. Parking Allotment:
            1. Location: For all residential dwelling units, parking facilities shall be provided
               on the same lot as the use for which the parking facilities are required, except
               for approved common or guest parking facilities.
            2. Guest Parking: Provide parking spaces as identified in section 11-12-3, table A
               of this chapter. Parking spaces shall be scattered throughout the project, so as
               to minimize the walking distance to the dwelling units. This requirement may
               be modified by the land use authority if the applicant can show that the design
               of the project makes this requirement unnecessary.
            3. Public Street Parking: Parking on public streets shall not be allowed to satisfy
               the off street parking or guest parking requirements for any residential
               dwelling unit.
            4. Driveways: All residential units providing a driveway shall be a minimum of
               twenty feet (20') in length.
            5. Other Uses: For all other uses, including commercial and industrial uses,
               required parking shall be located on the same lot or on an abutting lot. Off
               street parking shall not be located within twenty feet (20') of the front property
               line off a public street. In no case shall required parking be located across a
               public street without written approval of the city council.
            6. Easement: If parking is located on a lot or parcel under different ownership, a
               perpetual easement must be recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County
               recorder prior to final approval.
    B. Lighting: Any lights provided or required to illuminate a parking area shall be



                                                Page 32
       arranged in a manner that will reflect light away from adjacent properties.
    C. Joint Use Of Lot Or Facility: The city councilLand Use Authority may approve the
       joint use of a parking lot or facility; provided that, the applicant can show that conflict
       between the different users can be effectively eliminated, based on a professionally
       prepared parking analysis. For instance, willing parties such as a church and a
       commercial business may share parking facilities if typical heavy use parking times
       allow. Any arrangement to share parking must be recorded in the office of the Salt
       Lake County recorder.
    D. Commercial Or Industrial Zones; Agreements: In commercial or industrial zones, the
       owners of several businesses may be allowed to work together to provide off street
       parking in a lot or structure. Participants must be able to adequately show agreements
       to the city councilCity for long term maintenance and ownership.
    E. Construction Plans Submitted: Construction plans for any private lot or structure, or
       the expansion of any private lot or structure, shall be submitted to the city for site plan
       review and comment and shall be approved by the city councilLand Use Authority. A
       parking lot or structure may be approved as part of the project site plan approval. (Ord.
       2016-07, 5-25-2016)



       SECTION 11:            AMENDMENT “11.120.060 Design And Construction
Standards” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.120.060 Design And Construction Standards

All parking lots or structures shall satisfy the following minimum standards for design of
parking stalls and construction standards:

    A. Surfacing: All parking lots and parking structures shall be hard surfaced with asphalt
       or concrete. The materials shall be approved by the city engineer meet adopted City
       standards and be capable of handling the anticipated size and weight of vehicles,
       including public safety vehicles.
    B. Curb Or Border: Each parking lot shall be surrounded by a concrete curb, or other
       border approved by the city engineerwhich meets adopted City standards, to ensure
       the life of the surface and to limit the access to approved ingress and egress.
    C. Dimensions: All parking spaces shall have minimum dimensions of eight and one-half
       feet by eighteen feet (981/2'x18').
    D. Backing Space: Backing space in parking areas shall have a minimum depth of twenty
       four feet (24').
    E. Stall Angle: Parking stalls designed at less than a ninety degree (90°) angle shall be
       allowed for one-way traffic only.
    F. Avoidance Of Backing Onto Public Street: Parking shall be designed to avoid backing
       onto a public street. If an applicant is unable to do so effectively, the city councilLand




                                             Page 33
       Use Authority may approve parking that backs onto a public street, as recommended
       by the City Engineer.
    G. Subgrade Parking: Subgrade parking shall be reviewed for access and safety and must
       be approved by the City Council Land Use Authority. following recommendations
       from the staff.
    H. Structure Location: A parking structure shall not be located within thirty feet (30') of
       any property line, or in any clear view area required by this title. (Ord. 2005-15, 7-12-
       2005)



      SECTION 12:            AMENDMENT “11.120.070 Landscaping” of the Bluffdale
Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                     AMEN DMEN T

11.120.070 Landscaping

    A. RParking lots must be landscaped in accordance with the requirements found in BCC
       11.150.050(A)(10).
    B. Parking Area Landscaping: Parking areas shall be landscaped at a rate of at least
       fifteen (15) square feet of landscaping per required off street parking stall. Said
       landscaping is to be located within the boundaries of the parking lot. Landscaping
       areas located along the perimeter of a parking lot may not be included toward
       satisfying this requirement.Materials: The landscaping shall consist of ground cover,
       trees, and plant materials in accordance with section 11-15-5 of this title. Interior
       parking lot landscaping areas shall be dispersed through the parking lot. Landscaped
       islands shall be required at the end of parking rows. The landscaping shall include a
       concrete curb border to separate the plants from the parking lot to protect the planting
       area.Exemptions: In commercial and industrial zones, hard surfaced area used as
       operational yard areas for trucks, trailers and other incidental vehicles, other than
       passenger automobiles and light trucks, and which are not parking lots for employees,
       clients, and customers, shall be exempt from parking lot interior landscaping
       requirements. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-22-2015)



       SECTION 13:            AMENDMENT “11.150.010 Purpose And Intent” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                     AMEN DMEN T

11.150.010 Purpose, Scope, And Intent

    A. The purpose of this chapter is to define the requirements, approval process and appeals




                                             Page 34
   process for permitted commercial, industrial, manufacturing, research and development
   projects, institutional, and other non-single family residential site plans. Site plans are
   divided into two (2) categories - those with minor potential detrimental effects, called
   "minor", and those with major anticipated detrimental effects, called "major". Site plan
   review is an administrative process with minor site plans eligible for administrative
   review and approval processed by the Zoning Administrator as the Land Use
   Authority or designee and major site plans processedreviewed by staff, and approved
   by the Planning Commission as the Land Use Authority. It is the intention of this
   chapter to set standards and provide an efficient, yet thorough development review to
   allow the applicant to obtain approval of a building permit in a timely manner.
B. The purposes of these architectural, engineering, and site plan approval requirements
   are to assure compliance with this chapter and related chapters in this title and find:.
         1. That higher quality site and building designs will assist in increasing or
            maintaining value to the commercial community of Bluffdale City and attract
            businesses which positively contribute to the overall quality of life in Bluffdale
            City .
         2. That quality long lasting materials are required for all buildings in order to
            contribute to the aesthetics of the community over the long term. Permanence
            in design and construction will add to and assist in maintaining the overall
            value and sustainability of the community.
         3. That Bluffdale City welcomes a variety of businesses, including local and
            national retailers, for whom branding has become an important aspect of
            developing a successful and competitive business. While Bluffdale City
            acknowledges this fact, the design standards and guidelines enumerated in this
            chapter are intended to help and encourage development of imaginative and
            unique design solutions which meet these branding needs, while at the same
            time preserving Bluffdale City's community identity and community design
            objectives.
         4. That the provisions in this chapter are meant to supplement the objectives of
            other chapters in this title which also impose certain design standards or
            requirements that are zone specific.
         5. These requirements are intended to improve the quality and compatibility of
            development, particularly with regard to building design, site design, and
            compatibility with surrounding neighborhoods. These criteria apply to all
            applicable projects and are the minimum standards.
         6. That these design standards are intended to ensure quality development and
            permanence in design. The implementation of these standards ensures that the
            goals and values of the community are reflected in each applicable
            development and contribute positively to the overall built environment.
         7. That these standards promote the health, safety and welfare of city residents
            by establishing minimum standards for the preservation, installation and
            continued maintenance of landscaping and buffering.
         8. That these standards can assist in protecting existing desirable and significant
            vegetation and trees, as practicable.
         9. That these standards promote water efficiency by encouraging landscape




                                         Page 35
                design in accordance with Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District water
                efficiency standards.
           10. That these standards enhance the value and appearance of property by
                buffering land uses.
           11. That these standards may assist in the reduction of air, noise, and water
                pollution.
           12. That increased emphasis on landscaping design and maintenance may
                improve environmental conditions by providing air purification, oxygen
                regeneration, groundwater recharge and decreased stormwater runoff, noise
                and glare.
           13. That these standards improve the aesthetic appearance of all development by
                establishing minimum landscaping, buffering, and site design standards.
    C. Except as may be specifically provided elsewhere in this title, or applicable
       development agreements, the standards of this chapter shall apply to all new
       development and to expansions and modifications of existing development. All
       landscaping, buffering and site design features required by this chapter and previous
       regulations shall be continuously maintained according to the standards herein.
        (Ord. 2018-05, 3-14-2018)




       SECTION 14:            AMENDMENT “11.150.020 Relationship To Other
Sections” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                    AMEN DMEN T

11.150.020 Relationship To Other Sections

Each commercial, industrial, manufacturing, research, non-single family residential, or
institutional development project, reviewed under this chapter is also subject to the
requirements of the zone in which the proposed project is located and all other applicable
ordinances and regulations, including any applicable development agreements. (Ord. 2018-05,
3-14-2018)



      SECTION 15:             AMENDMENT “11.150.030 Application Requirements And
Approval Process” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                    AMEN DMEN T

11.150.030 Application Requirements And Approval Process




                                            Page 36
A. Application: The applicant is encouraged to arrange a pre-application meeting with the
   City staff prior to submitting a formal site plan application. The applicant for a site plan
   review shall submit a completed application form and a site plan with the required
   information and plans listed in subsection B of this section. The applicant shall also
   pay a fee in an amount established by the City's consolidated fee schedule.
B. Required Maps And Drawings: Maps and drawings shall be prepared and drawn to a
   standard engineering scale large enough to show details clearly with dimensions
   thereof and submitted in 'PDF' format. Said maps and drawings shall be stamped by a
   registered architect, landscape architect, or engineer in accordance with the laws of the
   State. The following shall be shown on said maps and drawings as a minimum:
         1. Site Plan Requirements: In addition see section 11.150.050, "General
            Requirements", of this chapter:
                  a. A vicinity map showing site orientation and location in relation to
                      streets and arterial roads.
                  b. Statement of building use, occupancy, area tabulations, parking and
                      landscaping tabulations.
                  c. The location of all proposed and existing structures on the subject
                      property and within fifty feet (50') on immediately adjoining
                      properties to show that light and air are preserved, and to show that
                      the development will not impose significant detrimental effects.
                  d. Location and types of landscaping and/or fencing and screening
                      within yards and setback areas, including proposed sprinkling and
                      irrigation systems in compliance with section 11-15-5 11.150.050of
                      this chapter. Landscape plans shall include a plant materials list and
                      detail of installation, including the sprinkler and irrigation plan.
                  e. Location/size and system design of existing and proposed utilities
                      (i.e., power, water, sewer, gas, telephone, cable, storm drains) and
                      other public infrastructure improvements (i.e., curb, gutter, sidewalk,
                      streets) together with existing easements and rights-of-way.
                  f. Design of ingress and egress to provide a functional on-site traffic
                      flow and to prevent interference with traffic on adjacent streets along
                      with a traffic study to assess the traffic impacts of the development, as
                      per subsection 11-15-7A11.150.070(A) of this chapter.
                  g. Off street parking areas including parking space striping, landscaping,
                      parking tabulations, plans for snow removal and storage, and loading
                      facilities shall comply with the standards as set forth in chapter 12 of
                      this title, including provisions for pedestrians and the disabled. A
                      parking demand study as per section 11-15-711.150.070 of this
                      chapter may be required by the Zoning Administrator if the
                      development has unique characteristics that are contrary to the
                      standards found in chapter 12 of this title.
                  h. Existing and proposed contours at one foot (1') intervals and spot
                      elevations drawn to a maximum scale of 1"=40'.
                   i. Drainage report as per the requirements included in title 8, chapter 6
                      of this Code.




                                          Page 37
                 j. Building elevations and sections, including the location of all
                    proposed signs.
               k. Diagrams showing typical road or access cross-sections drawn to a
                   scale no greater than 1"=10'.
                l. Utility plans (sewer, water, irrigation, electric, gas, communication).
               m. Lighting plans including location, height, and shielding to direct light
                   downward and away from neighboring properties as per subsection
                   11.150.060(F)-15-6F of this chapter.
               n. Maps showing areas of substantial earth moving and grading with an
                   erosion control plan.
               o. Description of master sign program, pursuant to the requirements of
                   11.220.050 A.
               p. A materials board containing a sampling of the proposed materials and
                   their colors. No photos shall be permitted.
                    (Ord 2020-18, 8/26/2020)
C. Review/Approval Process:
        1. Types Of Review:
                a. Minor site plans: Are defined as having less than fifty (50) parking
                   spaces and/or less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of gross
                   floor space:

                   Any proposed commercial, industrial, manufacturing, institutional,
                   non-single family residential or research and development building or
                   site plan that does not require more than fifty (50) parking spaces in
                   accordance with chapter 12 of this title and/or does not contain more
                   than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of gross floor space
                   shallmay be approved administratively by the Zoning Administrator
                   or designee, acting as the Land Use Authority. Approval shall be in
                   accordance with all of the laws, ordinances and resolutions of the
                   City, the State and the United States.

                    Site plans determined to create significant detrimental effects on the
                    zone/area in which it is located, by traffic, parking, access or
                    circulation, or applications which request deviations from strict
                    compliance as allowed by the Chapter, can, by a determination of the
                    Zoning Administrator, become "major" site plans, and administered
                    through that review process with the Planning Commission as Land
                    Use Authority.
                 b. Major site plans: Are defined as site plans with fifty (50) or more
                    parking spaces and/or greater than fifteen thousand (15,000) square
                    feet of gross floor space or having significant detrimental effects as
                    determined by the Zoning Administrator:

                   On major commercial, industrial, manufacturing, institutional, or
                   research and development projects, the Zoning Administrator or



                                        Page 38
                         designee will provide the application information to the Planning
                         Commission, at their regular meetings, regarding the proposed site
                         plan, building locations and, if known, types of businesses. The
                         Planning Commission, acting as the Land Use Authority, in a public
                         meeting, shall make a decision of approval as submitted or approval
                         with modifications based on compliance with City ordinances. Failure
                         to adhere to City ordinances will halt processing of the application.
                         (Ord. 2018-05, 3-14-2018)



       SECTION 16:            AMENDMENT “11.150.040 Parcel Improvements” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.150.040 Parcel Improvements

Each parcel or land use application approved in accordance with this chapter shall satisfy all
applicable requirements of this title, the subdivision ordinance, as well as any applicable
requirements of the design guidelines and standard specifications of the City, including any
approved development agreements. (Ord. 2018-05, 3-14-2018)



       SECTION 17:            AMENDMENT “11.150.050 General Requirements” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                      AMEN DMEN T

11.150.050 General Requirements and Landscaping

    A. Landscaping Plan Required: All areas not covered by approved buildings, structures,
       parking, drive aisles, and roadways, must be completely landscaped and maintained
       using an automatic irrigation system. Landscaping shall be used as a tool to enhance
       and beautify the site, and the building's architecture and design. A complete
       landscaping plan is required to be submitted with the site plan application and shall be
       sealed by a landscape architect licensed to practice in the state of Utah.
       considered part of the application. Each landscaping plan shall include the types and
       sizes of all planting materials along with plans for an automatic irrigation system. All
       landscaping plans shall meet or exceed the following standards:
             1. General: Trees and plants used in landscape design pursuant to this chapter
                shall, to the greatest extent possible, be:
                       a. Drought tolerant;
                       b. Water efficient;



                                             Page 39
         c. Appropriate for the setting in which they are to be planted;
         d. Have non-invasive growth habits;
         e. Have low maintenance characteristics and provide high quality
             appearance; and
          f. Be commercially available.
2. Plant Quality: Plants installed pursuant to this chapter shall conform to or
   exceed the plant quality standards of the most recent edition of "American
   Standard For Nursery Stock" (ANSI Z60.1), published by the American
   Horticulture Industry Association.
3. Artificial Plants: No artificial plants or vegetation shall be used to meet any
   standards of this chapter.
4. Ground Treatment: The ground area within required landscape areas shall
   receive landscape treatment and present a finished appearance and reasonably
   complete coverage upon planting. Areas not planted with trees, shrubs,
   ground cover, perennials, or bedding plants may be sodded, except as set forth
   for in this subsection. Sodded lawn areas shall be sodded with a species
   suitable as permanent lawns in the city. Sod shall not exceed 20% of non-
   residential site plans, pursuant to adopted Jordan Valley Water Conservancy
   District (JVWCD) efficiency standards.
5. Tree Diameter and Height:
         a. For the purpose of this subsection, "caliper" means a trunk diameter
             measurement for nursery grown trees taken six inches (6") above the
             ground up to and including four inch (4") caliper size. If the caliper at
             six inches (6") above the ground exceeds four inches (4"), the caliper
             shall be measured at twelve inches (12") above the ground.
         b. Shade and deciduous trees planted to satisfy the standards of this
             chapter shall have a minimum caliper of two inches (2").
         c. Ornamental trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall
             have a minimum height of six feet (6'). Ornamental trees shall be a
             species that has flowers, colored foliage, or a unique growth habit or
             other distinguishing characteristic that adds variety to the overall
             landscape plan.
         d. Evergreen trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall
             have a minimum height of eight feet (8').
6. TQuantities:
         a. There shall be a minimum of one evergreen no less than eight feet (8')
             in height or deciduous tree with no less than two inches (2") caliper
             for every fourfive hundred (4500) square feet of land not covered by
             an approved building or parking.
         b. There shall be a minimum of one (1) 5-gallon or larger shrub for
             every two hundred (200) square feet of land not covered by an
             approved building or parking.
         c. Deciduous And Evergreen Shrubs: Shrubs required as part of a land
             use buffer or adjacent to parking lots in perimeter plantings shall have
             a minimum height of eighteen inches (18") at the time of planting.




                                 Page 40
            Shrubs in other areas may be a minimum 5-gallon shrub.
         d. Annuals, biennials and perennials, decorative stone or similar
            materials shall be used in planting beds and may be used as an
            alternative to grasses. Ground covers and bedding plants may be used
            together with mulch to provide complete coverage of bare ground.
            Where ground cover is not used, planting beds shall be mulched with
            bark chips, decorative stone, or similar materials. Mulch or decorative
            stone shall not be used by itself as a substitute for required
            landscaping. Mulch shall be installed and maintained at a minimum
            depth of three inches (3") on all planted areas except where ground
            cover plants are fully established. Mulch may be approved as a
            permanent ground treatment in landscape designs where ground cover
            or sod is impractical. Rock mulch with an accompanying weed barrier
            may be used in a limited way when appropriate to a design concept
            and as a ground treatment in areas where drainage is a problem;
            provided, that the use of rock adjacent to buildings shall be
            minimized. Dirt, weeds and similar materials are not considered
            acceptable ground cover. Weeds, wild grass, garbage and other
            distracting materials shall be eliminated from planting areas on a
            regular basis.
         e. Ground cover may be planted in lieu of sod. Ground cover shall be of
            a size and spacing to provide a minimum of fifty percent (50%)
            coverage after the first full growing season and complete coverage at
            maturity. Edging shall be provided for all ground cover.
         f. Vegetative ground cover shall be utilized for at least eighty percent
            (80%) of a development site's frontage along any public right-of-way
            not including sidewalks, driveways, and entry points. Percentage is
            calculated based on the plant coverage at maturity.
7. Landscaping shall be used to enhance the site as well as buffer it from
   surrounding uses. An irrigated landscaped setback with a minimum depth of
   ten feet (10') is required adjacent to residential uses and/or residential zones
   with medium sized trees (see section 7-4-3 of this Code) planted at a
   maximum interval of thirty feet (30'), and shall comply with all required land
   use buffer standards.
8. Vertical Landscaping: All areas adjacent to buildings shall have vertical
   landscaping (trees, shrubs, bushes, etc.) planted in a minimum five foot (5')
   deep planting bed except where entries and other necessary paving preclude it.
9. Water Efficientwise Landscaping: The use of water efficient landscape
   practices to minimize the need for supplemental watering is required.
   Landscape plans shall reflect the following conservation techniques, which are
   intended to comply with Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District (JVWCD)
   standards:
         a. Using plant materials with comparatively low moisture
            requirements;Selecting plants on the basis of specific slope, aspect,
            soil and microclimate conditions;Using native and adapted plant



                               Page 41
  species;Minimizing the amount of irrigated turf area;Planting and
  designing slopes to minimize runoff;Separating irrigation zones
  according to plant water requirements and using drip/trickle irrigation
  systems to conserve water;Emphasizing soil improvement by
  conserving topsoil, deeply loosening soil, and incorporating organic
  matter and amendments based on soil tests; andUsing mulch in
  planting areas to reduce weed growth, promote soil cooling, and
  reduce evaporation.

b. Water efficient design definitions per JVWCD:
       (1) Activity Zones: Portions of the landscape designed for
           recreation or function, such as storage areas, fire pits,
           vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.
       (2) Active Recreation Areas: Areas of the landscape dedicated to
           active play where Lawn may be used as the playing surface
           (ex. sports fields and play areas).
       (3) Central Open Shape: An unobstructed area that functions as
           the focal point of Localscapes and is designed in a shape that
           is geometric in nature.
       (4) Gathering Areas: Portions of the landscape that are dedicated
           to congregating, such as patios, gazebos, decks, and other
           seating areas.
       (5) Hardscape: Durable landscape materials, such as concrete,
           wood, pavers, stone, or compacted inorganic mulch.
       (6) Lawn: Ground that is covered with grass or turf that is
           regularly mowed.
       (7) Localscapes®: A landscaping approach designed to create
           locally adapted and sustainable landscapes through a basic 5-
           step approach (central open shape, gathering areas, activity
           zones, connecting pathways, and planting beds).
       (8) Mulch: Any material such as rock, bark, compost, wood
           chips or other materials left loose and applied to the soil.
       (9) Park Strip: A typically narrow landscaped area located
           between the back-of-curb and sidewalk.
     (10) Paths: Designed routes between landscape areas and features.
     (11) Planting Bed: Areas of the landscape that consist of plants,
           such as trees, ornamental grasses, shrubs, perennials, and
           other regionally appropriate plants.
     (12) Total Landscaped Area: Improved areas of the property that
           incorporate all of the completed features of the landscape.
           The landscape area does not include footprints of buildings or
           structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated
           areas intentionally left undeveloped.
c. Water efficient Landscaping Requirements:
       (1) All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant




                       Page 42
                    material to achieve the highest water efficiency. Drip
                    irrigation or bubblers shall be used except in Lawn areas.
                    Drip irrigation systems shall be equipped with a pressure
                    regulator, filter, flush-end assembly, and any other appropriate
                    components.
                (2) Each irrigation valve shall irrigate landscaping with similar
                    site, slope and soil conditions, and plant materials with similar
                    watering needs. Lawn and planting beds shall be irrigated on
                    separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and
                    sprinklers shall be placed on separate irrigation valves.
                (3) Landscaped areas shall be provided with a WaterSense
                    labeled smart irrigation controller which automatically adjusts
                    the frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in response
                    to changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be
                    equipped with automatic rain delay or rain shut-off
                    capabilities.
                (4) At least three (3) inches of mulch, permeable to air and water,
                    shall be used in planting beds to control weeds and improve
                    the appearance of the landscaping.
                (5) At maturity, landscapes are recommended to have enough
                    plant material (perennials and shrubs) to create at least 50%
                    living plant cover at maturity at the ground plane, not
                    including tree canopies.
                (6) Lawn shall not be installed in parkstrips less than eight feet in
                    width, paths, or on slopes greater than 25% or 4:1 grade, nor
                    be less than 8 feet wide at its narrowest point in other
                    applications. To the extent reasonably practicable, lawn shall
                    be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,
                    etc.).
                (7) In commercial, industrial, institutional, and multi-family
                    development common area landscapes, lawn areas shall not
                    exceed 20% of the total landscaped area, outside of active
                    recreation areas.
                (8) Certain special purpose landscape areas (e.g. stormwater
                    management areas, etc.) may receive exceptions from the
                    slope limitations and other elements of the landscaping
                    requirements and may request a deviation from strict
                    compliance.
                (9) These outdoor standards are not intended to be in conflict
                    with other landscaping requirements as defined by Utah law,
                    including stormwater retention requirements and low-impact
                    development guidelines. Notwithstanding these outdoor
                    standards, whenever any requirement may be in conflict with
                    Utah law, such conflicting requirements shall not apply.
10. Parking Lots: Any parking lot designed to provide ten (10) or more parking



                                 Page 43
spaces or three thousand five hundred (3,500) shall provide landscaping as
follows:
         When lots are provided on a multiuse site, the amount shall be
      a. determined based on the predominant use served by the parking
         spaces.

     b. Total parking lot area shall be measured along the perimeter of the lot,
        including all parking spaces, accessways, and landscaped islands
        within the perimeter and at the corners of the lot. Total parking lot
        area shall not include loading and service areas, but shall include
        customer service drive-up areas and accessways jointly used by
        parking lot and service traffic. Minimum percentage of parking lot
        required to be in landscaping is as follows:
             (1) Multiple-family residential sites: Ten percent (10%) of total
                 parking lot area.
             (2) Office and commercial sites: Seven percent (7%) of total
                 parking lot area.
             (3) Industrial or warehouse sites: Five percent (5%) of total
                 parking lot area.
             (4) Materials and Design: Parking lot islands shall be at least five
                 feet (5') wide and one hundred (100) square feet in area and
                 dispersed throughout the parking lot. A minimum of one tree
                 shall be planted per three hundred (300) square feet of overall
                 internal landscaped area, with at least one shade tree planted
                 in each island. The remainder of the island shall be
                 landscaped with additional shrubs, ground cover, or turf, and
                 shall include an appropriate irrigation system. Plants and trees
                 may be grouped in order to create larger landscaped area.
                 Plantings should:
                     (A) Anticipate foot traffic patterns;
                      (B) Be used to discourage foot traffic where dictated by
                           safety concerns;
                      (C) Not impair adequate visibility for the safety of
                           pedestrians and vehicles;
                     (D) The landscaping shall include a concrete curb border
                           to separate the plants from the parking lot to protect
                           the planting area.
                      (E) Landscape islands shall allow for storm drainage to
                           enter the island, if the drainage plan design can
                           reasonably accommodate directing the flow to the
                           islands.
                      (F) For parking lots adjacent to a street, a screen wall 2.5
                           feet to three feet (3') in height or a landscaped berm
                           of the same height shall be constructed.
             (5) Location: Islands shall be located in the following priority:



                             Page 44
                              (A) To define major drives and accessways;
                              (B) To delineate ends of parking rows;
                              (C) At aisle intersections; and
                              (D) Within parking rows.
                      (6) Exemptions: In heavy commercial and industrial zones, hard
                          surfaced area used as operational yard areas for trucks, trailers
                          and other incidental vehicles, other than passenger
                          automobiles and delivery trucks, and which are not parking
                          lots for employees, clients, and customers, shall be exempt
                          from parking lot interior landscaping requirements, as long as
                          the overall site meets all applicable landscape percentage and
                          other requirements of this Title.
     11. Tree and Vegetation Protection: Development shall be designed to preserve
         existing trees and vegetation to the greatest extent possible and shall
         incorporate existing significant stands of trees as well as individual trees.
         Existing trees and vegetation that are to be preserved shall be identified on site
         plans and shall be protected from all construction activities, including
         earthwork operations, movement and storage of equipment and materials and
         dumping of toxic materials. A minimum protection zone shall be established
         by installing temporary fencing at or beyond the drip line of the vegetation to
         be preserved. Protective fencing shall be maintained throughout the
         construction period.
     12. Park Strip Landscaping. All park strips shall be landscaped pursuant to
         applicable requirements of the BCC and shall include shade providing
         deciduous tree species, not ornamental varieties, where feasible. Sod is not
         allowed on parktrips less than eight feet wide, pursuant to water efficiency
         standards.
     13. Perimeter Landscaping. Plantings as specified in this section and
         accompanying tables shall be provided around the perimeter of each
         development site which requires site plan approval, except single-family lots,
         based on the orientation of property and the classification of the roads adjacent
         to the site. Perimeter plantings may be located anywhere between the property
         line and adjacent pavement or structure, in a landscaped area of the minimum
         horizontal depth designated. However, the minimum number of shade trees
         along street frontages should be located within fifteen feet (15') of the right of
         way or as close to the right of way as site features allow. The minimum depth
         of the perimeter landscaped area along front, rear and interior lot lines shall be
         ten feet (10'). In instances where the minimum building setback is allowed to
         be zero or reduced below 10 feet (10’) per this title, no perimeter landscaping
         is required between a building and the front property line in order to
         encourage building presence in the streetscape. Where the requirements of a
         land use buffer along the same property line exceed those of the perimeter
         plantings, the land use buffer requirements shall supersede.
B.



                                      Page 45
Table 1 Perimeter Plantings Along Street Frontages

       Per 100 Linear
                              Freeway         Arterial         Collector         Local
    A. Feet
                                            2 shade trees; 2 shade trees;
         Adjacent to                        1 ornamental 1 ornamental
         Building or Open     2 Shade Trees tree; 16       tree; 12              2 shade trees
         Area                               shrubs; 100 sq shrubs; 75 sq
                                            ft beds1       ft beds
                              As above plus: As above          As above
                                                                                 As above
         Adjacent to          3' shrubs or   plus: 3' shrubs   plus: 3' shrubs
                                                                                 plus: 3' shrubs
                              berm for       or berm for       or berm for
         parking lot2                                                            or berm for
                              continuous     continuous        continuous
                                                                                 75% screening
                              screening      screening         screening

         Adjacent to service As above plus: As above           As above          As above
         areas (loading                      plus:             plus:             plus:
                              evergreen
         docks, outside                      evergreen         evergreen         evergreen
                              trees, shurbs,
         storage, generators, and/or berm    trees, shrubs,    trees, shrubs,    trees, shrubs,
         and trash                           and/or berm       and/or berm       and/or berm
                              for 100%
                                             for 75%           for 75%           for 50%
         compactors)3         screening
                                             screening         screening         screening



        Notes: 1. Decorative planting bed with flowers, other color, small shrubs, and non-turf
        ground cover. 2. A 3 foot high decorative wall, compatible with the design of the main
        building, may be used in lieu of berms or shrubs for parking lot screening. 3. Service
        area screening shall be designed to meet the above criteria after 5 years of normal
        growth.

Table 2. Perimeter Plantings Along Interior Lot Lines




                                            Page 46
Per 100
Linear Side                                              Rear
Feet
 Adjacen
                                                         1 shade tree
 t to     1 shade tree
 building
Adjacen
t to
        1 shade tree, 9 shrubs                           1 shade tree 9 shrubs
parking
lot
Adjacen As above, plus:Evergreen trees and               As above, plus: Evergreen trees and
t to    shrubs that at maturity will screen from         shrubs that at maturity will screen from
service view 50% of the service area                     view 50% of the service area
area

Notes: 1. Perimeter plantings may be reduced or deleted when adjacent to a service area,
nonpublic area, or area with substantially obscured view from multiple vantage points. 2.
Perimeter plantings not required when buildable area abuts a lot line, pursuant to all other
applicable requirements.

     A.       1. 14. Installation, Irrigation, Maintenance, and Replacement.
                       a. Any required landscaping shall be installed, maintained, irrigated and
                          replaced in accordance with the following standards:
                               (1) Installation: All landscaping and buffering shall be installed
                                    according to sound nursery practices and water efficiency
                                    standards in a manner designed to encourage vigorous
                                    growth.
                               (2) Irrigation: Landscape areas shall be irrigated as necessary to
                                    maintain required plant materials in good and healthy
                                    condition, in accordance with water efficiency standards.
                               (3) Maintenance: Landowners and their successors in interest
                                    shall be jointly and severally responsible for all of the
                                    following:
                                        (A) Regular maintenance of all landscape areas, including
                                             park strips, in good condition and in a way that
                                             presents a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. All
                                             landscaping shall be maintained free from disease,
                                             pests, weeds and litter. This maintenance shall
                                             include weeding, watering, fertilizing, pruning,
                                             mowing, edging, mulching or other maintenance, in
                                             accordance with acceptable horticultural practices.
                                         (B) The repair or replacement of landscape structures
                                             (e.g., walls, fences) to a structurally sound condition




                                               Page 47
                                       and original appearance.
                                   (C) Perpetual maintenance to prohibit the reestablishment
                                       of undesirable and harmful species within landscape
                                       and preservation areas.
                                   (D) Regular maintenance, repair or replacement of any
                                       plant material, screening or buffering required by this
                                       chapter in conjunction with approved plans. Any
                                       landscaping required to be planted or preserved by
                                       this chapter shall be replaced with the largest
                                       available equivalent vegetation.
                                   (E) The city may require that any dead trees, shrubs and
                                       plants be replaced within the current or next planting
                                       season.
          2. 15. Substitution of Plant Materials. The land use authority may approve the
             installation of comparable substitute plant species or materials to satisfy the
             requirements of an approved landscape plan when the approved plants and
             landscape materials are not available at the time that installation is to occur or
             when other unforeseen conditions prevent the use of the exact materials
             shown on the approved landscape plan. The land use authority may not
             reduce the number of plants required. Any significant change to landscaping
             plans previously approved by the land use authority shall be subject to review
             and approval of the land use authority.
          3. 16. Temporary Suspension of Landscaping Installation. The installation of
             landscaping required by this chapter may be temporarily suspended, in
             individual cases, by the zoning administrator during periods of adverse
             weather conditions or when plants and landscape materials are not available. If
             the landscape standards of this chapter are suspended, the developer shall
             enter into an escrow assurance (cash escrow deposit) agreement with the city
             that will cover the cost of installation and determine a date to be completed by.
B. Fences and Walls: Each applicant shall be required to furnish and install fences when
   the Land Use Authority determines that a hazardous condition to the public or abutting
   properties or uses may exist or where the proposed project abuts residential parcels and
   when required as a land use buffer. The fences shall meet the standards found in this
   chapter and be architecturally compatible with the buildings and other improvements
   within the surrounding area, and shall be noted as to height (maximum 8 feet), color,
   and material on the site plan. Chainlink fencing is prohibited unless located within the
   Sand and Gravel (SG-1) Zone. Where chainlink fencing is approved, it shall be dark
   vinyl coated. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until required wall andthe
   fence improvements have been duly installed or bonded for in accordance with this
   Title.
          1. Parking lots adjacent to residential zones shall include a light proof solidfence
             or wall as described in this Chapter with a maximum height of ten eight feet
             (810'), pursuant to Land Use Buffer requirements.
          2. The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
                    a. Fences required by State law to surround or enclose public utility




                                          Page 48
                     installations, hazardous areas, public schools or other public buildings.
                   b. Temporary construction fences that are installed to protect the public
                       from injury during construction or to maintain security for the
                       development which is under construction. Temporary construction
                       fences must be removed as soon as construction is finished. A permit
                       will be required before installation.
         3. All site plan related fences and walls shall be constructed of substantial
             materials and the design and construction shall be consistent with the quality
             of buildings and other improvements within the surrounding area. It shall be
             unlawful to erect or to maintain any barbed wire, concertina or razor wire, or
             electric fence along or adjacent to any public street in conjunction with a site
             plan approval.
C. Land Use Buffers. Land use buffers shall be provided along the side and rear property
   lines of commercial, institutional, multi-family, and industrial properties to enhance
   community appearance and to protect residents, neighboring property owners, and
   visitors from the traffic, noise, glare, trash, activity, vibration, odor, visual disorder and
   other adverse or harmful effects typically associated with such land uses.
         1. Land Use Buffer Requirements: The amount of landscaping and fencing
             required for a land use buffer shall be as follows:
                   a. A landscape buffer of twenty feet (20') shall be provided between all
                       commercial and office uses when adjacent to a residential zone and
                       when a multi-family use is adjacent to a single-family zone.
                   b. A landscape buffer of thirty feet (30') shall be provided between
                       industrial uses and residential uses or zones.
                   c. Trees within the buffer area shall described in this Title shall be
                       planted at one tree per four hundred (400) square feet of buffer area.
                             (1) Trees may be grouped.
                             (2) At least one buffer tree shall be planted between commercial,
                                 office, institutional, multi-family and industrial uses and each
                                 single-family residential lot. Trees shall be arranged to
                                 provide linear coverage between commercial, office,
                                 institutional, and industrial uses and adjacent residential units.
                   d. The rest of the buffer area shall consist of ground covers, shrubs and
                       planting beds, consistent with this Chapter.
                   e. A minimum eight (8’), tall, solid sight-obscuring constructed of
                       masonry, precast concrete, or lightweight precast fiber reinforced
                       concrete wall shall be used between abutting commercial, industrial,
                       institutional, office, and multi-family residential land uses and
                       residential zones. Except for required footings or foundations, the wall
                       shall extend from the adjacent finish grade of the property upward to
                       the required height. Any gaps in the bottom of the fence panel and the
                       adjacent finish grade of the property may not exceed four inches (4”).
                       Such gaps are not counted toward the required height of the fence.
                       The height of fences shall be reduced in clear view triangle areas or




                                           Page 49
           where they may impact sight visibility with a driveway as specified in
           this Title.
2. Exemptions: No land use buffer shall be required between land uses located in
   the same zone or where a commercial zone abuts an existing institutional use,
   such as a school, church, or municipal facility.
3. Reductions:
         a. The Land Use Authority may reduce land use buffer requirements
            based on the impact of specific uses, building orientations,
            topographic features, or other unique characteristics of adjoining uses.
            A reduced buffer shall consist of a minimum ten foot (10') wide
            landscape buffer and an eight foot (8') tall, solid sight obscuring wall
            which is in compliance with all required specifications of BCC
            Section above.
                 (1) Where a project that requires a land use buffer is separated
                      from an adjacent residential zone or residential development
                      by a canal, public park or trail, or similar permanent or
                      dedicated open space, those features may be considered a
                      horizontal land use buffer which justifies a reduced buffer that
                      is a minimum ten foot (10') wide.
        b. The Land Use Authority may approve additional deviations to
            landscape buffer requirements if all of the following criteria are met:
                 (1) Physical site features or existing building locations preclude
                      strict compliance. In this case an alternative landscaping
                      scheme shall be provided which meets or exceeds the intent
                      of the code.
                 (2) Additional landscaping shall be added to the overall site to
                      compensate for any approved reduction in buffer area widths,
                      up to the amount of trees required for the original buffer
                      width.
                 (3) An eight foot (8') tall, solid sight-obscuring wall has been
                      provided.
                 (4) In no case shall a landscape buffer be less than five feet (5') in
                      width.
4. Relationship To Other Requirements: When the requirements of a land use
   buffer exceed those of other requirements along a property line, the land use
   buffer requirements shall apply.
         a. Existing Buffer Vegetation And Trees: Retention of existing plant
            material is strongly encouraged in land use buffers. Existing trees and
            vegetative ground cover should be retained where possible by
            avoiding scraping, grading, sodding and other construction activity
            within the land use buffer. Where land use buffer standards call for
            additional trees or shrubs to be installed in an existing landscaped
            area, it should be done in a manner which minimizes disturbance to
            existing plants. In determining whether existing trees and vegetation




                                 Page 50
                    qualify as satisfying a land use buffer standards, the Land Use
                    Authority shall consider the following factors:
                        (1) The type and quality of the vegetation being preserved;
                        (2) The effectiveness of the visual screening that will be
                             provided;

                          (3) The extent to which the proposed buffer makes use of
                               existing topography and vegetation; and
                          (4) The ability and availability to relocate existing, healthy, non-
                               invasive, drought tolerant vegetation that would otherwise be
                               removed from the site to a land use buffer.
         5. Compatibility Of Plantings: Supplemental buffer plantings shall be compatible
            with any existing vegetation within the buffer area.
         6. Development Within Land Use Buffers: Land use buffers may contain
            nonmotorized trails. In no event shall structures or uses, such as, but not
            limited to, play fields, stables, swimming pools, golf courses, tennis courts,
            parking lots and vehicular use areas, equipment storage and other open
            storage, or buildings be permitted within land use buffers.
D. Parking Lots: Any parking lot designed to provide ten (10) or more parking spaces
   shall provide landscaping according to the requirements in section 11-12-7 of this title.
E. Deviations From Strict Compliance With Landscaping Requirements: Because site
   conditions and development constraints vary greatly among sites, the Land Use
   Authority may approve landscape plans that deviate from the requirements of this
   chapter. Such a deviation may include the use of water efficient materials in lieu of
   otherwise required materials.
         1. Proposed Deviation: Any proposed deviation from the requirements of this
            chapter shall be:
                  a. Clearly identified on the proposed landscape plan; and
                  b. Accompanied by a written description of the proposed deviation
                     showing how the purpose and intent of this chapter will be met by the
                     proposed plan.
         2. Findings Required: The Land Use Authority may authorize a landscape plan
            deviation only if it finds the deviation:
                  a. Is consistent with the purpose of this section, this Title, and any
                     applicable City standard. Master Plan;
                  b. Reflects a design that conforms to the requirements of this section to
                     the greatest extent possible and offers alternative methods for
                     addressing the landscape requirement for which a deviation is being
                     requested. Alternative methods may include additional fencing or
                     walls, berming and plant material in excess of what would otherwise
                     be required;
                     ;
                  c. Will not adversely affect sight distance or otherwise diminish public
                     safety;
                  d. Is justified by unusual site constraints; and




                                          Page 51
                     e. Is of high quality and integrates aesthetically with the design of the
                        primary buildings on site and established streetscape.
                     f. Complies with all land use buffer requirements. (Ord. 2018-05, 3-14-
                        2018)




       SECTION 18:            AMENDMENT “11.150.060 Design Standards” of the
Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                    AMEN DMEN T

11.150.060 Design Standards

    A. Adopted Design Standards: All buildings and developments shall satisfy the adopted
       design standards for the zone in which the building or development is located and the
       following criteria:.




                                            Page 52
         1. Arrangement: All elements of site development shall be arranged to create a
            safe, functional, convenient, healthful, durable and attractive living
            environment for residents, tenants, workers and occupants of properties. All
            sloped areas shall be stabilized against erosion by living or rock/paving
            landscaping or other appropriate means as determined by the city, both during
            and following development.
         2. Buildings: Buildings shall be located to ensure the provision of adequate open
            space for outdoor living areas, facilities, services and amenities and to provide
            natural indoor light, air and privacy.
         3. All buildings, other structures, and parking lots shall be located to integrate
            with the natural topography and to minimize deep cuts and fills, excessive
            foundation wall depth, unnecessary steps, use of vertical retaining walls, and
            steep access gradients.
         4. Circulation: Safe and convenient pedestrian and vehicular circulation shall be
            provided.
         5. Climate: Extreme temperature, sunlight, wind and other climatic factors should
            be mitigated by appropriate site layout and design, including placement of
            landscaping.
         6. Grading: Site grading shall be designed and implemented to:
                   a. Retain desirable major vegetation whenever practicable;
                  b. Make use of existing natural drainageways;
                   c. Minimize increased runoff and erosion; and
                  d. Buffer objectionable noise and views.
         7. Integration: Landscaping design should be integrated with building and site
            design. Consideration should be given to planting types, growth rates, canopy
            sizes and required maintenance in relationship to building location, sightlines
            and underground/aboveground utilities.
         8. Landscape plans shall conform to the visual obstruction and clearview
            requirements found within the BCC.
         9. All areas not approved as impervious surface area, parking, walkways, and
            buildings on a development site shall be devoted to landscaping.
       10. Landscaping shall be integrated into the design, placement, and enhancement
            of pedestrian plazas, sitting areas, walkways, flagpoles, and signs. This may
            be accomplished by giving special attention to any plantings immediately
            adjacent to pedestrian areas and walkways. This landscaping shall not
            overgrow or impede pedestrian areas but rather allow for detail and aesthetics
            more amenable to pedestrians.
B. Context: All building designs shall consider surrounding or nearby buildings and
   developments and implement design solutions which are sensitive to those nearby
   buildings, neighborhoods, and developments. The review of this requirement shall be
   based on the following:
         1. The buildings reflect the character of surrounding development through use of
            similar and compatible features;
         2. The buildings demonstrate imaginative design; and
         3. Where proposed building designs closely copy or mirror surrounding




                                         Page 53
         development, the buildings shall vary in colors, materials, or architectural
         elements.
C. Commercial: For commercial Non-residential buildings and sites:
      1. Windows: Windows shall make up at least fiftyforty percent (450%) of first
         floor street-facing facades. For buildings over three (3) stories, top floors shall
         have architectural differentiation from the other floors in the building.
         Mirrored glass shall not be allowed on the ground floor. On buildings which
         are constructed with single story high ceiling construction, this requirement
         shall be measured within the first nine feet (9') of the structure. Above the first
         nine feet and on non street facing facades, windows shall make up at least
         10% of the facades.
                a. If it is determined through a site specific visual analysis submitted by
                    the applicant, which includes post construction conditions, that a
                    facade on the interior of a site is not visible from any public right of
                    way, no minimum window percentage is required. However,
                    provision of natural light into building spaces is strongly encouraged.
      2. Corner Lots: Corner lots are deemed to have two (2) front yards with only one
         building entrance required facing the principal street to which it has frontage,
         shall orient main facades to each street, give detailed architectural treatment to
         each facade..
      3. Landscaping: Landscaping along the street shall comply with this chapter,
         chapter 12 of this title, and the zone in which the use is proposedall applicable
         provisions in the BCC, adopted standards and water efficiency requirements.
         An irrigated landscaped setback with a minimum depth of ten feet (10') is
         required adjacent to residential uses with medium sized (see section 7-4-3 of
         this Code) trees planted with a maximum of thirty foot (30') centers. Such
         areas shall be fenced with a light proof fence with a maximum height of eight
         feet (8').
                a. Landscaped areas and solid walls shall be used to decrease noise
                    levels and separate loading and service bays from customer parking
                    where possible. Service and loading bays (automotive, service, tire,
                    etc.) should be oriented away from neighboring residential areas and
                    major public streets and screened from view with solid walls and
                    landscaping. The general public should be restricted from accessing
                    such areas when possible.
      4. Signage: Signage for commercial or office uses is defined in chapter 22 of this
         title.
      5. Parking And Circulation:
                a. Developments which shall include an analysis of the proposed
                    development's impact on the current and future transportation system,
                    and methods to control traffic (such as signage, turn lanes, medians,
                    and traffic signals). The content of such analysis should follow
                    guidelines established by the city.
                b. Major internal circulation roadways that provide access from the
                    public right of way or between buildings on the same site shall be



                                        Page 54
           separated from parking areas using curb and gutter and a combination
           of any of the following methods:
                (1) Landscaping;
                (2) Pedestrian walkways; or
                (3) Lighting.
        c. Pedestrian walkways shall have a minimum five foot (5') wide free
           travel width. Where deadmen or parking stops are not used to keep
           vehicles off the walkway, one foot (1') shall be added to the walkway
           for vehicle overhang in addition to the five foot (5') wide free travel
           width. Additionally, where other encroachments into the walkway
           exist, widths of the walkways shall be increased to ensure the five
           foot (5') wide free travel width.
        d. Cross access for automobiles and pedestrians to future and existing
           commercial developments shall be legally provided during site
           planning and construction, and in perpetuity.
6.
7. Garbage And Recycling: The development shall be designed to accommodate
   and efficiently manage the collection, storage, and removal of garbage so as to
   minimize detrimental effects of the collection, storage, and removal on any
   residence within the development or abutting neighborhoods. If dumpster or
   trash receptacle enclosures are provided for the development, no refuse
   dumpster or dumpster enclosure structure shall be located closer than ten feet
   (10') to any perimeter property line. Enclosure structures must have a
   minimum of four (4) sides that reflect shall be constructed of masonry walls no
   less than six feet (6') in height of the same or compatibleor emulate the
   materials and in accordance with the , design, architecture, and quality of the
   overall development. Enclosures shall provide complete visual screening of
   the receptacle and be screened through the use of landscaping or incorporation
   into the building architecture. . All developments are encouraged to provide
   recycling services.
8. Building Materials: Exterior materials shall be of a durable or resilient nature
   such as brick (as defined in BCC 11.20), stone, stucco ceramic tile, concrete
   masonry units (CMU) prefinished composite or pre-finished architectural
   metal panels, composite materials, architectural pre-cast concrete, , or other
   materials of similar quality, hardiness, and low maintenance characteristics,
   which meet the City requirements for composition and percentage of primary
   and secondary materials, shall be used. No single material is allowed to
   exceed fifty percent (50%) on street-facing facades, unless required by other
   adopted City guidelines. Other materials may be considered for soffits, or as
   an accent or architectural feature. Minimum twenty (20) year guarantee,
   architectural shingles and/or other longer lasting roof materials are required.
   For commercial buildings unfinished/plain concrete block shall not be
   permitted. Vinyl and aluminum lap siding, shall not be permitted as a primary
   exterior surface. Pre-engineered metal buildings shall have anprimary




                               Page 55
architectural treatment of stone, brick, composite siding, stucco, or another
similar material, or as indicated below. Pre-engineered corrugated metal
buildings may only be allowed in the SG-1 Zone and for approved livestock
arenas, stables, and barns in the R-1-43 Zone.
      a. When utilized, CMU must be colored and feature decorative or
         architectural finishes such as honed, scored, offset, split face, or
         exposed aggregate. Gray CMU block is not an acceptable finished
         building material and shall not be permitted on any finished building
         elevation with the exception of minimal foundation exposure.
      b. Brick, rock, concrete masonry units and stone elements of a building
         shall not be painted to create compliance with the color palette of the
         site.
      c. Each building face shall have a minimum of two (2) durable primary
         materials as listed above. At least seventy five percent (75%) of each
         building's face shall be in primary materials.
      d. No single material is allowed to exceed 50% on street facing facades
         unless required by other specific design standards in this Title.
         However, when brick is used as a primary material, it may be utilized
         up to one hundred percent (100%) of the facade material, in which
         case, no secondary primary material shall be required.
      e. Doors, glass and roofing materials shall not be included in the
         calculations of primary and secondary materials.
      f. Secondary materials may include stucco; EIFS, including specialty
         finishes; metal, excluding corrugated sheet metal; exposed concrete;
         vinyl; shake shingles or wood siding. Materials such as awnings,
         wood timbers and other similar features will be considered accent and
         not figured into the totals of secondary materials; stone, fiber/cement
         composite siding, metal and metal panels, concrete masonry units,
         exposed and patterned concrete, wood or similar material in
         composition and of a complementary hue and shade to the brick. A
         maximum of two (2) accent colors may be allowed for secondary
         materials, in addition to primary material. Stucco type systems may be
         used in a percentage not to exceed 25% of any one building façade,
         and shall include breaks and/or other features to show relief.
      g. Pre-engineered buildings, constructed of insulated metal panels
         (IMP's) - not pre-engineered corrugated metal buildings - shall not
         expose any metal panels which do not have architectural finishes,
         such as embossing, striation, wood grain, and other textured finishes,
         and shall comply with all other architectural standards in this chapter
         and Title. Paint only is not considered an architectural finish for
         IMP's.


     h. Exposed tilt-up concrete. Variation in materials along the base and
        near the entrances of concrete tilt-ups is required, in addition to other




                             Page 56
            requirements in this Chapter.
          i.
          j. Facades shall present multiple finishes.
 9.

10. Building RelieFacade Articulationf: All commercial buildings shall provide
    variation in the facade, especially in the use of materials and relief, to avoid
    monotonous design. Relief is defined as foundation jogs or recesses in the
    front vertical planein of the facade over one foot (1'), ,window variation,
    cantilevered spaces, color variations, etc. Buildings designed with completely
    flat facades and monotone color or finish schemes are not permitted. A
    minimum of two (2) colors per elevation shall be required. Color utilization
    should be sensitive to existing development within the vicinity and the natural
    landscape in which the project is situated.

    More than three (3) colors are discouraged for front facades. All buildings
    shall demonstrate articulation of all facades.
          a. Horizontal and vertical facade variations shall occur at least every
             forty feet (40') or along a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the
             horizontal length of buildings with facades one hundred feet (100') or
             greater, as applicable, based on length of building. This shall be
             accomplished by using methods such as:
                  (1) Variation in the vertical surface plane, that may include pop
                      outs, bays, columns, and recesses shall be at least four inches
                      (4");
                  (2) Variation in the horizontal plane shall be at least one foot (1")
                  (3) Variation in the surface pattern such as arches, banding, and
                      paneling; or
                  (4) Distinguished treatment of windows, doors, and eaves that
                      may include molding or framing.
          b. Facades greater than 100 feet in length shall include major relief
             features in the vertical surface plane of at least 20 feet (20') wide,
             which are greater than four inches (4").
          c. Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to the
             brick included in the primary façade material and shall generally be
             subtle, subdued, low reflectance, neutral, or earth tones.
          d. Reveals and joinery are not considered relief.
11. Height And Roofline: All buildings shall vary rooflines in order to add
    architectural interest and avoid the appearance or sense of monotonous
    roofline expanses. All buildings shall:
          a. Provide roofline and parapet variations where there are long,
             continuous, and undisturbed rooflines fifty feet (50') or greater;
          b. Use similar materials and colors on the back of false fronts, parapets,
             cornices, or other parts of the building which extend beyond the




                                  Page 57
             roofline or main building so that the building appears cohesive from
             all views; and
          c. Provide for screening of mechanical equipment and systems that need
             to be mounted on the roof. Any minimal portion of these pieces of
             equipment that may not be fully shielded shall be painted a color
             which is compatible with the roofing or parapet materials.

12. Massing: Buildings shall have a composition which clearly relates to
    surrounding buildings, as well as the overall scale of the built environment in
    nearby residential or commercial neighborhoods. Proper massing reduces the
    impact of the massive bulk created by large buildings that may not otherwise
    relate in scale to surrounding development. Vertical articulation, horizontal
    articulation, and multi-planed roof and awning designs should be used to
    mitigate the impact that may occur on surrounding development and the
    overall landscape.
13. Pedestrian Considerations: Buildings designed at the human scale effectively
    relate to pedestrians and create inviting and hospitable commercial districts
    that encourage pedestrian activity and social interaction. All buildings shall
    consider pedestrians as an integral part of the design. Additionally, buildings
    that contain more than one story or that are above twenty feet (20') in height
    shall provide a clearly articulated and more detailed base that relates to
    pedestrians. Measures shall be taken to ensure adequate access and safety for
    pedestrians on the site.
          a. Pedestrian access from the public right of way through the site to main
              entrances shall be provided. These walkways shall be constructed of
              different materials than the roadway or parking area, and provide for
              clearly defined crossings where there are points of conflict with
              automobiles.
          b. Similar pedestrian access from public transit stations and stops into the
              site and to each building entrance shall be provided.
          c. Differing roadway materials within parking lots shall be used directly
              in front of entrances to slow motorists and create a safer environment
              for pedestrians.
          d. Pedestrian drop off locations when incorporated within overall
              circulation patterns shall be convenient and safe for pedestrians.
          e. Benches, pedestrian scaled lighting, bike racks, and other pedestrian
              amenities shall be placed appropriately throughout the site.
14. Bicycle Parking.
          a. Bicycle parking shall be provided at a ratio of one (1) space for every
              twenty (20) automobile Parking Spaces. There shall be no fewer than
              two (2) and no more than thirty (30) bicycle parking spaces.
          b. Bicycle parking shall not be located where it will obstruct pedestrian
              movement and circulation. It shall be located at a maximum distance
              of one-hundred (100) feet of a central Building Entrance or at least as
              close as the closest automobile space, excluding handicapped Parking




                                 Page 58
              Spaces.
           c. All bicycle racks, lockers, or other facilities shall be securely anchored
              to the ground or to the structure.
           d. Businesses which are solely auto-oriented including automobile sales
              and car washes shall be excluded from the bicycle parking
              requirements.
15. Signs: Signs located on any building facade shall be compatible with the
    building's overall design. As an integral design element, signs shall be
    compatible with the style of the buildings in terms of location, scale, color, and
    lettering.
           a. The locations for signs on a building's facade shall be planned for as
              part of the building's overall design.
           b. Signs located on facades should integrate similar or complementary
              materials as the building.

16. Windows: Windows are key to the overall design of a building and the
    relationship between the exterior and interior. The majority of windows shall
    relate to the scale of the person.
           a. Windows should be at eye level when possible and provide for
              transparency into the building.
          b. Where buildings are adjacent to pedestrian walkways, transparent
              windows shall be used to relate the scale of the building and the
              building's interior to pedestrians. Where transparent windows may not
              be desirable or possible due to building design or structural concerns,
              tinted windows, false windows, spandrel glass or glass block shall be
              used.
                   (1) Window awnings are an effective way to add detail and
                       variation to a building, emphasize pedestrian scale windows,
                       and create an exciting and inviting environment. When
                       placing awnings:
                           (A) Quality materials shall be used which are durable and
                                are able to withstand extremes in the weather;
                           (B) Colors should be complementary to the color of the
                                building on which the awning is located; and
                           (C) Styles should be compatible with the architectural
                                features and overall architecture of the building on
                                which the awning is located.
17. Roof Mounted Heating And Air Conditioning: Roof mounted heating and air
    conditioning shall be concealed on all sides by elements that are an integral
    part of the building design and which are equal to or greater in height than the
    mechanical equipment.
    screened from a pedestrian point of view from the edge of the right-of-way.
18. Building Entrances: All building entrances shall be clearly articulated to
    indicate a transition from the exterior to the interior of the building. Every
    main entrance shall have a special emphasis when compared to the other




                                  Page 59
            portions of the building. This shall be accomplished through any combination
            of the following:
                  a. A prominent architectural feature that is unique to the overall building
                     design;
                  b. Complementary yet differing building materials or colors;
                  c. Increased use of windows or glass;
                  d. Pedestrian amenities that may include patios, porches, special paving
                      treatments, seating areas, or awnings; or
                  e. Increased landscaping.
                   f. For commercial buildings the entrance shall face the adjacent street.
                      On corner lots, only one street frontage needs to serve as the entrance.
        19. Ground Mounted Utility Boxes, Meters And Mechanical Equipment: Ground
            mounted utility boxes, meters, and mechanical equipment shall be screened
            from off site view by landscaping or other architectural elements compatible in
            material and color with the primary structure. Screening requirements may be
            waived in rear and rear side yard locations when adjacent to other service or
            mechanical areas, or when not subject to primary views from off site.
        20. Outside storage areas: Where allowed by the underlying zone, approved
            outdoor storage areas shall be fully screened from view using the a solid
            masonry wall, compatible in colors and materials to the building, a minimum
            of eight feet in height (8'). Enclosures shall also be surrounded by landscaping
            to further minimize their visual impact. The general public shall be restricted
            from accessing such areas.

        21. Shopping cart corrals are highly visible and needed to keep development sites
            safe and orderly. Corrals shall be located in fixed positions and be made of the
            same as or complimentary material to the building. Shopping corrals shall also
            contain some similar architectural or design features as the building.
        22. Generators and other large auxiliary equipment shall be placed at locations
            where they will be least intrusive in terms of noise, appearance, and odors,
            particularly for occupants of neighboring properties. Site plans should also
            consider public utilities equipment placement and communicate early in the
            planning process with the various public utility providers about potential utility
            equipment placement on the site.
                   a. Equipment should be kept low to the ground.
                   b. Exhaust systems shall not protrude above the equipment.
                   c. Walls, landscaping, and other screening shall be used.
        23. Security: Security of the site shall be strongly considered in any site design. To
            maximize safety and crime deterrence, site development should take into
            account features which maximize surveillance ability, access control,
            territoriality, and property maintenance.

D. Parking Lots: For parking lots with over ten (10) spaces, landscape islands shall
   include at least one tree (2 inch caliper), and allow for storm drainage to enter the




                                         Page 60
   island, if the drainage plan design can reasonably accommodate directing the flow to
   the islands. For parking lots adjacent to a street, a screen wall 2.5 feet to three feet (3')
   in height or a landscaped berm of the same height shall be constructed.
E. D. Transitional Development Standards For Uses Abutting Residential Zones: The
   purpose of this subsection is to provide standards for transitional areas between
   abutting lots zoned for dissimilar uses so that potential negative effects are mitigated.
         1. Landscaping Along Property Line; Setback: Where a lot in any multiple-
             family residential, business, commercial or industrial zone abuts a single-
             family residential or agricultural zone, or where a business, commercial or
             industrial zone abuts a lot in a multiple-family residential zone, a minimum
             landscaped yard at least ten feet (10') wide, including medium sized (see
             section 7-4-3 of this Code) trees on a maximum of thirty foot (30') centers,
             shall be provided on such lot along the property line where the lot abuts one or
             more of the aforementioned lots, unless a lesser setback is approved in
             accordance with section 11-16-24 of this title. Building setback in such areas
             shall be at least one foot (1') for each two feet (2') of building height.
             Buildings over twenty feet (20') high shall be set back at least ten feet (10').All
             landscaping and setbacks shall met the standards of the underlying zone and
             all required land use buffer and perimeter landscaping standards.

         2. Minimum Side Yard Setback On Corner Lot: Where the side yard of a
            commercial or multiple-family residential corner lot abuts the same street as
            the front yard of an adjoining residential property facing the same street, the
            minimum side yard setback on the corner lot shall be twenty feet (20') from
            the street right-of-way line.All setbacks shall meet the standards of the
            underlying zone and all required land use buffer and perimeter landscaping
            standards.
         3. Landscaped Front Yard: Where a lot front yard in any multiple-family
            residential, business, commercial or industrial zone abuts a lotfront yard in any
            single-family residential or agricultural zone or where a business, commercial
            or industrial zone abuts a lot in a multiplefamily residential zone, there shall be
            provided a landscaped front yard on such lot equal to the residential zone
            requirement on the abutting property. Where the developing property abuts a
            residentially zoned lot, which is planned in the land use element of the
            General Plan as a non-residential use, the landscaped front yard requirement
            may be reduced to that required in the underlying zone.
         4. Screening Parking Lot Areas: Any multiple-family residential, business,
            institutional, commercial or industrial parking lot consisting of four (4) or more
            spaces and that portion of the driveway back of the building line shall be
            screened from the street and from adjoining properties in the abutting
            residential or agricultural zone by either a landscaped berm with trees and
            shrubs, two feet (2') high at the crown, a hedgerow at least three feet (3') high
            at maturity, or a masonry wall not less than three feet (3') high in the front
            yard, and not more than eight feet (8') high located back of the building line.
         5. Lighting: All building and parking lot lighting shall comply with the outdoor




                                          Page 61
           lighting regulations of subsection F of this section.
        6. Pollution: Notwithstanding a permitted or conditional use provision to the
           contrary, a use that involves open storage of merchandise or equipment, trade
           or industry that is noxious or offensive by reason of the emission of odor,
           smoke, gas, vibration, or noise shall be set back one hundred feet (100') from
           property line abutting a residential or agricultural zone.
        7. Overhead Doors: No overhead/bay doors shall be permitted in the wall of a
           building which faces a residential or agricultural zone if said wall is closer
           than twenty five feet (25') to the property line.
        8. Mechanical Equipment: All mechanical equipment (i.e., air conditioners, fans,
           pumps, etc.) shall be located within a building or on a roof with parapet walls.
           Any mechanical equipment located on the outside of a building within twenty
           five feet (25') of the nearest residential zone shall have a visual/noise barrier
           (masonry wall/landscaping) that completely surrounds the equipment and
           extends at least one foot (1') above the equipment. Noise from mechanical
           equipment shall not exceed levels defined in the noise ordinance.
         9. Loading And Delivery Areas: No loading dock or delivery pick up area shall
            be located within fifty feet (50') of a residential dwelling. These areas shall be
            screened from public view with a sixeight foot (86') masonry wall.
       10. Trash Containers: No trash container shall be located closer than ten feet (10')
            from the side property line of a lot in a residential or agricultural zone.
       11. Required Wall; Noncompatible Uses: For proposed non-single family
            residential projects abutting an established commercial or industrial use or
            proposed commercial or industrial projects abutting an established residential
            use a masonry, precast concrete, or lightweight precast fiber reinforced
            concrete wall of a minimum height of eight feet (8’) shall be installed on all
            property lines abutting a noncompatible use, unless exempted in the land use
            buffer requirements in this Chapter.. It shall be the responsibility of the newest
            incoming development to install the required wall. Where there is a difference
            in the grade of the properties on either side of the required wall the height shall
            be measured from the property with the highest grade or in such a way that
            provides the greatest possible visual screening.
F. (E) Deviations from Design Standards: In the event an applicant formally requests a
   deviation from the development or design standards of this chapter and has submitted a
   project that contains features and excellence in design above and beyond those
   required, the the planning commission Land Use Authority shall have the discretion to
   amend some or all of the architectural design standards as long as such deviation is
   consistent with the purpose and intent of the policies and development standards
   pertaining to the applicable zoning district as described in this Title and makes
   adequate findings on the record.
         1. Deviation Criteria: The Land Use Authority shall take into consideration at
            least three (3) of the following criteria in considering a deviation of
            architectural design standards:
                   a. That the application of the particular design standard in question is
                      infeasible or impractical due to adopted building and fire codes or



                                         Page 62
                     structural design requirements.
                  b. That the standard in question is replaced with a suitable feature and
                     design proposal that can be found to address the same architectural
                     objective.
                  c. That additional landscaping or architectural site features are utilized to
                     replace or shield from view the standard in question.
                  d. The variations are consistent with the purpose of this chapter and any
                     applicable master plan or ordinance.
                  e. That the deviation for the project is required to create a consistent and
                     compatible design in cases which involve redeveloped buildings,
                     additions to existing buildings, minor structures added to a site, or
                     new buildings within a previously approved phased project, which
                     was originally developed under differing ordinance requirements.
                  f. Significant additional landscape plant material is provided more than
                      the minimum required, including additional planting beds, plants, trees
                      or a combination thereof.
                  g. The building design is a specific architectural style, such as
                      contemporary or modern, which utilizes facade materials differently
                      than prescribed in the applicable subsection of this chapter and is
                      designed by a licensed architect.
                  h. The amount of primary materials used for a facade is at least ten
                      percent (10%) greater than the minimum required amount.
                   i. Request Responsibility: The applicant shall demonstrate to the Land
                      Use Authority that deviating from strict compliance to the standards of
                      this chapter will meet the goals of the Land Use Ordinance by:
                           (1) Providing a written description and analysis of the specific
                               development standards to be lessened or modified and how
                               that standard will be mitigated or replaced. The analysis shall
                               be written by a licensed design professional, such as an
                               architect, engineer or landscape architect;
                           (2) Providing a written justification as to how the deviation meets
                               the required findings of this subsection.
                           (3) Findings Required: The Land Use Authority may approve
                               deviations from the development standards listed in this
                               chapter only if it finds, based upon a finding of facts as stated
                               in subsection B of this section, that the deviation is in the
                               benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the city and the
                               project and substantially complies with the objectives of the
                               Land Use Ordinance.
G. (F) Outdoor Lighting Standards: The purpose of this subsection is to regulate the
   placement, orientation, distribution patterns and fixture types of outdoor lighting
   installed as part of a site plan. It is the intent of the City to encourage lighting that
   provides safety, utility and security while preventing glare on public ways, protecting
   the enjoyment of private property rights, conserving energy resources and reducing




                                          Page 63
atmospheric light pollution.
     1. Design: Carefully planned lighting schemes shall have the effect of creating
        safe environments for pedestrians and motorists. Lighting shall also be
        considered an integral design element which adds to the overall site plan and
        building design.
              a. Lighting schemes should include coordinating parking, wall, and
                 pedestrian scaled fixtures which complement building architecture and
                 site features.
              b. Sensitively placed low light landscape lighting that highlights a site's
                 desirable features is encouraged.
     2. Outdoor Lighting Plan: If a proposed development, involves the installation or
        alteration of outdoor lighting fixtures, an outdoor lighting plan shall be
        submitted and shall include the following information:
              a. A site plan drawn to a scale of one inch (1") equaling no more than
                 twenty feet (20'), showing the location, height, manufacturer, model,
                 lamp type, lumens, output and wattage of each outdoor lighting
                 fixture in relationship to buildings, streets and parking areas. The City
                 encourages yellow tint LED type site lighting.
              b. A photometric plan showing the levels of illumination, in foot-
                 candles, that would result at ground level from the lighting
                 installation.
              c. A certification that the lighting fixtures to be installed are fully
                 shielded, cutoff type fixtures that will not allow light dispersion or
                 direct glare to shine above a ninety degree (90°) horizontal plane from
                 the base of the fixture.
              d. A certification that the exterior lighting will comply with the
                 maintained horizontal illuminance recommendations of the
                 Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
     3. General Requirements:
              a. All commercial outdoor lighting shall be turned off after business
                 hours, except for essential security lighting. All exterior lighting shall
                 be fully shielded and directed downward to prevent off-site glare.
              b. Lighting of signs, buildings and displays shall be directed downward.
                 Uplighting shall be prohibited; provided, that in landscaped areas, low
                 level uplighting may be allowed if approved by the Zoning
                 Administrator.
              c. Electrical service to outdoor lighting fixtures shall be underground
                 unless fixtures are mounted directly on utility poles.
     4. Exemptions: The following types of outdoor lighting shall be exempt from the
        provision of this subsection:
              a. Holiday lighting during the months of November, December and
                 January. Seasonal decorations do not have to be shielded; provided,
                 that they do not have a brightness of more than 0.1 foot-candles at the
                 property line on which they are installed.
              b. Temporary lighting, including, but not limited to, circuses, fairs,



                                      Page 64
           carnivals and civic uses, for a period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar
           days, unless specified differently in an approved temporary use
           permit.
        c. Lighting associated with agricultural operations.
        d. Construction or emergency lighting; provided, that such lighting is
           temporary and is discontinued immediately upon the completion of
           the construction work or abatement of the emergency circumstances
           necessitating such lighting.
        e. Roadway lighting.
5. Parking Lot Lighting:
        a. Parking lots should be illuminated adequately for security and safety,
           but such illumination shall be controlled to prevent glare and avoid
           decreasing the visibility of neighboring properties.
        b. Parking lot lighting shall be installed at a maximum height of twenty
           feet (20') in residential zones and twenty feet (20') in commercial,
           office and industrial zones. Height shall be measured from the ground
           surface being illuminated to the bottom of the lighting fixture. Parking
           lot lighting shall not be located in any required setback.
        c. Parking lot lighting fixtures shall include "cutoff" and/or shielded
           fixtures and the maximum initial lumens generated by each fixture
           shall not exceed two hundred (200) (equivalent to a 150 watt
           incandescent bulb). The height of such lighting fixtures shall not
           exceed twenty feet (20').
        d. Parking lot lighting shall be designed so the minimum illumination at
           grade level is between two-tenths (0.2) and threetenths (0.3) in
           residential zones and between three-tenths (0.3) and five-tenths (0.5)
           foot-candles in commercial, office and industrial zones. Parking lot
           lighting shall not exceed three-tenths (0.3) at the property line in
           commercial office and industrial zones, and two-tenths (0.2) when
           adjacent to a residential use or zone. The ratio of average parking lot
           illumination to minimum parking lot illumination shall not exceed four
           to one (4:1).
6. Lighting Of Gasoline Station/Convenience Store Canopies:
        a. Gasoline station and convenience store canopies shall provide
           adequate lighting for customers.
        b. Lighting fixtures in the ceiling of canopies shall be fully recessed in
           the canopy.
        c. Light fixtures shall not be mounted on the top or fascia of such
           canopies.
        d. The fascia of such canopies shall not be illuminated, except for
           approved signage.
        e. Areas around gasoline pump islands and under canopies shall have a
           minimum illumination at grade level between one foot-candle and five
           and one-half (5 1/2) foot-candles. The ratio of average illumination to




                                Page 65
            the minimum illumination at grade in the areas around the gasoline
            pumps shall not exceed four to one (4:1).
7. Lighting Of Exterior Sales/Display Areas: The following provisions apply to
   businesses such as automobile, heavy equipment and recreational vehicle
   dealerships and other businesses, such as material stores, which rely on
   outdoor display of merchandise:
         a. Areas designed for parking or passive display of merchandise shall be
            lighted in accordance with the standards for parking lots in subsection
            F4 of this section.
        b. Light fixtures shall be shielded, cutoff type fixtures located, mounted
            and aimed so that direct light is not cast onto adjoining streets or
            properties.
         c. Light fixtures shall be installed at a height not to exceed twenty feet
            (20').
        d. Exterior display/sales areas shall be designed so that the minimum
            illumination at grade level is between one footcandle and five (5) foot-
            candles. The ratio of average display/sales area lighting to minimum
            display/sales area lighting shall not exceed four to one (4:1).
8. Lighting Of Outdoor Sports Or Performance Facilities:
        a. The lighting plans to be submitted with the development plan shall be
           prepared by a qualified lighting designer, experienced in lighting such
           facilities. The plan shall demonstrate that the location, selection and
           aiming of the lighting fixtures will focus light on the playing or
           performing areas, minimize glare and visibility from neighboring
           areas, minimize night sky illumination, and promote energy efficiency.
        b. A dual lighting system shall be provided. The primary system shall be
           adequate for the sports or performing event. The primary system shall
           be shut off within forty five (45) minutes of the conclusion of the
           event. The secondary system shall be designed to facilitate the exiting
           of patrons, clean up and maintenance.
9. Security Lighting: Adequate lighting shall be provided to protect persons and
   property and to allow for the proper functioning of surveillance equipment as
   provided in this subsection:
        a. A security lighting plan shall utilize shielded fixtures. Floodlights shall
           not be permitted.
        b. Vertical features, such as walls of a building, may be illuminated for
           security to a maximum height of eight feet (8') above grade.
        c. Security lighting poles shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in height in
           residential zones and twenty feet (20') in commercial, office and
           industrial zones.
        d. Security lights intended to illuminate a perimeter, such as a fence line,
           shall be allowed only if regulated by a motion detection system that
           triggers the lighting when an intruder moves to within five feet (5') of
           the perimeter.
        e. The average horizontal grade level or vertical surface illumination of



                                 Page 66
             security lighting in residential zones shall not exceed one-half (1/2)
             foot-candle. The average horizontal grade level illumination of
             security lighting in commercial, office and industrial zones shall not
             exceed one and one-half (1 1/2) foot-candles.
10. Lighting Of Building Facades:
          a. Lighting of building facades is not allowed, except for approved
             security lighting. Government buildings, church buildings, and
             historic buildings listed on a City or State approved historic register
             shall be exempt from this requirement. When allowed, lighted facades
             shall not exceed an illumination of five (5) foot-candles on a vertical
             surface.
11. Illumination Of Signage:
          a. Externally illuminated signs shall be served by light fixtures that are
             shielded and directed downward. The average level of illumination on
             the sign face shall not exceed three (3) foot-candles and the ratio of
             average to minimum illumination shall not exceed two to one (2:1).
         b. Internally illuminated signs shall be designed with light lettering or
            symbols on a darker background. If fluorescent lighting tubes are
            utilized, they shall be spaced on at least twelve inch (12") centers and
            be mounted at least three and one-half inches (3 1/2") from the sign
            face. (Ord. 2018-05, 3-14-2018)




                                 Page 67
      SECTION 19:             AMENDMENT “11.150.080 Assurances For Completion Of
Improvements” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                    AMEN DMEN T

11.150.080 Assurances For Completion Of Improvements

    A. Completion Of Installation: Landscaping, sprinkling systems, walls, fences and/or
       screening structures, walks, parking areas and other on and required off-site
       improvements shall be installed in accordance with the approved site plan and
       construction drawings prior to issuance of any occupancy permit. If the installation of
       any of these improvements cannot be completed due to weather or other circumstances
       beyond the control of the applicant/owner or developer, a conditional certificate of
       occupancy shallmay be issued if a performance security and deferral agreement is
       signed by the applicant/owner or developer which shall guarantee completion of all
       unfinished improvements, in a form approved by the City.
    B. Performance Security And Deferral Agreement: The performance security and deferral
       agreement shall consist of:
            1. A signed statement by the applicant/owner or developer that such
                improvements, identified by plans displaying the portions of the approved
                project improvements that are not complete, will be completed by the earliest
                possible date, not to exceed nine (9) months, to be determined by mutual
                agreement between the applicant/owner or developer, the Zoning
                Administrator and/or City Engineer. An extension beyond this date may be
                granted if the applicant/owner or developer contacts the City fourteen (14)
                calendar days prior to the original completion date, the Zoning Administrator
                and/or City Engineer agree to such an extension, and the agreement is
                amended.
            2. A performance security, in favor of the City and in an amount equal to one
                hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of installation of the unfinished
                improvements, is received in a form as approved by the City. The performance
                security shall be refunded upon inspection and acceptance of the
                improvements by the City.
            3. The provisions of this section may be superseded by a development
                agreement, an adopted phasing plan, or the State Construction Code.
            4. A signed agreement by the applicant/owner or developer that the bond will be
                forfeited to the City in the event the improvements are not installed by the
                agreed date, including a statement the City will have the right to take legal
                action to compel the completion of such improvements and a statement that
                the applicant/owner or developer will not allow the building to be occupied
                prior to the completion of such improvements.




                                           Page 68
    C. Phased Development: Installation of landscaping with each phase of a multiphase
       development shall be permitted, provided that all landscaping required for each phase
       is installed concurrently with each phase. At no point shall the amount of installed
       landscaping go below the required percentage for the developed portion of the parcel
       or project. Partial releases of such bonds may occur by request of the applicant/owner
       or developer and after inspection and acceptance by the City. (Ord. 2018-05, 3-14-
       2018)



       SECTION 20:            AMENDMENT “11.90.020.060 Setback And Build-To
Requirements” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is hereby amended as follows:


                                     AMEN DMEN T

11.90.020.060 Setback And Build-To Requirements

The following minimum setback and build-to requirements shall apply in the GC-1 zone. Each
setback is measured from the property line of the lot or parcel.

    A. Front Setback: Each lot or parcel in the GC-1 zone shall have a minimum front
       setback of ten feet (10'), and a minimum build-to line of fifty feet (50')..
    B. Side Setback; Corner Lot; Driveway Access; Accessory Buildings:
            1. There is no side setback in the GC-1 zone; provided, that each building
               satisfies the building code in effect at the time of approval and issuance of a
               certificate of occupancy, except those structures constructed adjacent to
               residentially zoned areas. The side setback for structures constructed adjacent
               to residentially zoned areas shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') unless
               approved in accordance with section 11-16-24 of this title.
            2. Each corner lot or parcel in the GC-1 Zone shall have a minimum setback on
               all areas of road frontage of twenty feet (20').
            3. Each side setback, when used for access to a garage, carport or parking area
               shall have a minimum setback of twenty feet (20') and shall be hard surfaced.
            4. The side setback for any permitted accessory building shall have a minimum
               side setback of fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2014-04, 2-25-2014)
    C. Rear Setback; Accessory Buildings:
            1. Each lot or parcel in the GC-1 Zone shall have a minimum rear setback of
               twenty feet (20') unless it can be clearly demonstrated that a structure could be
               placed nearer the property line without causing a negative impact on adjacent
               property owners.
            2. An accessory building may be located within fifteen feet (15') of the rear
               property line. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)




                                             Page 69
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
_______________________________.

                                    AYE         NAY       ABSENT        ABSTAIN
Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Crockett
Councilmember Gaston
Councilmember Hales
Councilmember Kallas

P residing O fficer                             Attest



Derk P. Timothy, Mayor, Bluffdale               Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
City                                            Bluffdale City




                                      Page 70
