                                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                                     MEETING AGENDA
                                                  Wednesday, April 5, 2023


Notice is hereby given that the Bluffdale City Planning Commission will hold a public meeting on
Wednesday, April 5, 2023, at 6:00 p.m., or as soon thereafter as possible at the Bluffdale City Hall, 2222
West 14400 South, Bluffdale, Utah. This meeting may also be broadcast live to the public on the City’s
website www.bluffdale.com. Notice is further given that access to this meeting by Commission members
may be by electronic means via telephone conference call.

PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING 6:00 PM
   1. Roll Call.
   2. Invocation/Thought/Reading and Pledge of Allegiance.
   3. Approval of Planning Commission meeting minutes from March 15, 2023.
   4. Election of Planning Commission Chair and Vice Chair.

LEGISLATIVE ITEMS:

    5. PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION AND RECOMMENDATION on proposed text amendments to
       the Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinances regarding accessory dwelling units, Bluffdale City Code
       (BCC) Chapter 11.340 and associated definitions in BCC 11.20, City of Bluffdale, Applicant
       (Application 2022-49) – Staff Presenter, Grant Crowell.

DISCUSSION ITEMS:

    6. Planning Commission Business (planning session for upcoming items, follow up, etc.).

    7. Adjournment.



                                                                              Dated: March 31, 2023



                                                                              Grant Crowell, AICP
                                                                              Community and Economic Development Director




   In compliance with the American Disabilities Act, individuals needing assistance or other services or accommodation for this meeting should contact
                                 Bluffdale City at least 24 hours in advance of this meeting at (801)254-2200. TTY 7-1-1.
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   Present:
 2
 3   Members:        Debbie Cragun, Chair
 4                   Kory Luker (arrived late)
 5                   Ulises Flynn
 6                   Tina Griffis
 7                   Michael Kraupp
 8                   Erik Swanson
 9
10   Staff:          Grant Crowell, Community and Economic Development Director
11                   Jennifer Robison, Senior City Planner
12                   Ellen Oakman, Associate City Planner
13                   Mark Reid, City Manager
14                   Shane Paddock, Public Works Director
15                   Tiffini Shinsel, Community Development Coordinator
16                   Courtney Armstrong, AV Technician
17
18   Public:         Scott Holmes
19
20   Chair Debbie Cragun called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
21
22   PLANNING COMMISSION BUSINESS MEETING
23
24   1.       Roll Call.
25
26   All members of the Planning Commission were present.
27
28   2.       Invocation/Thought/Reading and Pledge of Allegiance.
29
30   City Manager, Mark Reid offered the invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.
31
32   3.       Approval of the Planning Commission Meeting Minutes from January 4 and January
33            18, 2023, and December 7, 2022, as Revised.
34
35   Ulises Flynn moved to APPROVE the Planning Commission Meeting minutes from January 4
36   and 18, 2023, and December 7, 2022, as revised. Tina Griffis seconded the motion. Vote on
37   motion: Ulises Flynn-Aye; Tina Griffis-Aye; Erik Swanson-Aye; Michael Kraupp-Abstained;
38   Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously with one abstention. Kory Luker was
39   not present for the vote.
40



                                                     1
                              DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                              BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                       MEETING MINUTES
                                     Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   ADMINISTRATIVE ITEMS
 2
 3   4.      CONSIDERATION AND VOTE on a Proposed Site Plan for the City of Bluffdale Public
 4           Works Complex located on 7.42 Acres located at 3301 West 13800 South, City of
 5           Bluffdale, Applicant. (Application 2023-01) – Staff Presenter, Grant Crowell.
 6
 7   Chair Cragun reported that the above agenda item would not include a public hearing. The Planning
 8   Commission would be making the final decision on this application.
 9
10   Community and Economic Development Director, Grant Crowell, presented the staff report and
11   stated that it is an amazing project being proposed by the City of Bluffdale. Currently, Bluffdale City
12   has a small Public Works facility on Redwood Road north of the cemetery. The City outgrew that
13   facility many years ago and a significant amount of time has been spent identifying a location and
14   saving up for a new Public Works Complex. The proposed location is on the edge of the City
15   boundary. It is in the R-1-43 residential zone, where public uses are allowed as a permitted use. The
16   site plan specifies that 13800 South, a minor collector road, is north of the subject property, and
17   Asherwoods Cove, a private road, is to the east of the subject property. That road will not be utilized
18   as an access point for the subject property to minimize any impact on that road.
19
20   Mr. Crowell next presented the site layout. There is a large L-shaped main building, along with some
21   accessory structures for salt storage, a vac truck, bulk materials, and places for vehicles. There is also
22   a retention basin, parking area, fencing surrounding the 7.42-acre site, and open and secured areas.
23   The main building will be 34,737 square feet in size and the auxiliary buildings will be up to 11,324
24   square feet in size. There will be a lot of open yard area, concrete, and road base. The maximum
25   allowable coverage in the zone is 30% with the current site plan being well under that. There will be
26   parking for staff, the public, and training participants. There will also be an operations area and stalls
27   for large vehicles on the site.
28
29   Mr. Crowell reviewed the architecture for the main building and noted that the architect was present
30   to answer any questions. The main building will primarily consist of CMU block construction,
31   architectural metal panels and accents, glazing, and windows focused on the public-facing areas. The
32   design is intended to be durable and have the needed longevity for such an important municipal


                                                         2
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 15, 2023

1    facility. No stucco or Exterior Insulation and Finish System (“EIFS”) was planned as part of the
 2   proposed design. There were also elements included that were reminiscent of City Hall.
 3
 4   The facility will be very functional with bay doors to allow for large trucks, skylights, and aesthetical
 5   appeal from the street. He reviewed the elevations for the areas facing the public on the west, east,
 6   and south. He reviewed the design proposed for the building that would be used for salt storage. It
 7   will be on the southwest portion of the site against the canal. Some of the buildings will not be
 8   completely enclosed such as the facility for the vac truck.
 9
10   Most of the site will be protected by an eight-foot concrete wall for security. The public side will
11   have open steel fencing to provide visibility without compromising security. Landscaping is focused
12   on the parking lot, frontage area, street trees, and low water use. The middle of the site will not have
13   landscaping because it would be too impractical with large trucks coming and going from the site.
14   The Lighting Plan was designed to minimize light pollution in the surrounding areas.
15
16   Mr. Crowell reported that the Engineering Department did a lot of the civil work, including a review
17   of the Traffic Study prepared by Hales Engineering, which was included in the meeting packet. Hales
18   Engineering’s judgment was that there would not be any significant traffic impacts as a result of the
19   proposed facility. The drainage plan was found to meet City Code.
20
21   In response to Commissioner Kraupp’s question regarding funding of the facility, Mr. Reid reported
22   that the proposed facility will house two of the three departments in Public Works consisting of the
23   Water and Streets Departments. The Parks Department will remain in the current Parks Building on
24   the Rodeo grounds. The Water Department will pay for half of the building, which is a non-General
25   Fund or Enterprise Fund. The City will bond for the rest of the building. The City is looking to make
26   a down payment of $5 million to reduce the amount to be financed. Mr. Reid reported that when the
27   Utah Department of Transportation (“UDOT”) took over Porter Rockwell Boulevard they indicated
28   that they would give Bluffdale the difference between what the City paid for a local road and what
29   the City actually paid for the road that was built to UDOT’s standard. The refund amounted to
30   approximately $7 million. About $5 million of the refund will be committed to this project. The



                                                        3
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   project itself will cost $15 to $16 million. The bond that was submitted will not exceed $16 million.
 2   Consequently, the anticipated bond will be for approximately $11 million.
 3
 4   In response to Commissioner Kraupp’s question regarding the project timing, Mr. Reid indicated that
 5   work would begin as soon as possible. Mr. Reid reported that there had been some debate about
 6   whether City Hall or the Public Works Building should be built first. It was ultimately decided that
 7   City Hall would be constructed first. He explained that a Public Works facility should be built on at
 8   least seven acres and the current Public Works facility is on just under two acres. Public hearings for
 9   the facility were conducted two years ago. The design shows the canal on one side, Bangerter
10   Highway on the north, and a road on the east. One home touches the subject property in the rear.
11   Two years ago, those residents were amenable to the proposed facility. The goal of the design was
12   to have a minimal impact on the area.
13
14   The Project Architect, Scott Holmes, gave his business address as 577 South 200 East in Salt Lake
15   City. Mr. Holmes reiterated that the proposed design included shared design themes with the City
16   Hall and Fire Station 92 on the east side of the City. A particular focus of the design was to ensure a
17   minimal impact on the surrounding area. He confirmed that public hearings have taken place with
18   particular emphasis on the neighbors nearby to garner their support and address concerns. Frontage,
19   beautification, and setbacks were designed to soften the transition from the residential to the proposed
20   project. Mr. Holmes showed what the view of the site would be from Asherwoods Cove to confirm
21   their effort to soften the transition from the adjacent neighborhood to the proposed project. The
22   surrounding landscaping will buffer the noise and light emanating from the site. The appearance of
23   the buildings will be similar to City Hall and the Fire Station. Mr. Holmes presented a rendering of
24   fleet maintenance bays, which will be placed behind a secured fence.
25
26   In response to a question raised by Chair Cragun, it was confirmed that 13800 South will be the only
27   access to the subject property. It was noted that certain parts of the site will be secured.
28
29   Mr. Holmes confirmed that the surrounding walls will be consistent with what was shown presented.
30   Mr. Crowell added that the R-1-43 Zone requires 10-foot setbacks from the accessory building to the
31   property line. Because the proposed site is in the R-1-43 Zone, the same buffer requirements imposed

                                                         4
                               DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                               BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                        MEETING MINUTES
                                      Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   in commercial zones do not apply. However, it is typical for an eight-foot wall to separate commercial
 2   from residential sites.
 3
 4   Public Works Director, Shane Paddock reported that an Open House took place about two years ago
 5   to share the vision of the project with the public. The subject property has been the first choice for
 6   this facility. Fliers were delivered to every home in Asherwood and Palisades with 25 to 30 residents
 7   attending the Open House. He specifically met with residents who live on the south side of the subject
 8   property. At that time, they were amenable to the City’s plans for the property. The eight-foot wall
 9   on the property line would buffer the facility from the adjacent neighborhood. There are also areas
10   on the site plan that describes the anticipated paving that will occur. Bulk materials to be stored on
11   the site would include sand and gravel, salt, road base mix, cold mulch material, and other materials
12   commonly used by the Public Works Department.
13
14   Mr. Paddock clarified that truck traffic to bring bulk materials will be sporadic and infrequent. The
15   most frequent delivery would be for the salt storage beginning in late October and continuing for as
16   long as dictated by the weather. Those deliveries will typically take place during the day. The current
17   work hours are from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., and there are no weekend work hours. The Division of
18   Water Quality has shut down maintenance in the City. Currently, the City is not allowed to use the
19   vac truck for storm drain maintenance or mainline breaks. They are also not allowed to sweep the
20   roads or clean storm drains because the City does not have the facility to handle the materials. The
21   current salt storage site is inadequate and will likely be shut down. It was stressed that the City is in
22   great need of the new facility.
23
24   The timing of the construction of the facility would be about 1.5 years. In the meantime, the City will
25   be able to function but not to the degree it needs to because there is the potential for fines to be
26   imposed for the City not complying with the regulations imposed by the Division of Water Quality.
27   Mr. Paddock reported that to date the Parks Department has been able to meet its needs at its current
28   location. The Public Works Department is approximately 25 employees short of where it should be
29   to meet the City’s maintenance needs. He felt that the new facility would make it easier to resolve
30   that employee shortage.
31
                                                        5
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   Commissioner Swanson thanked. Paddock for his due diligence in addressing the concerns of the
 2   neighbors.
 3
 4   Chair Cragun commented that although there was no public hearing conducted tonight, she received
 5   an email from someone asking if the developer plans to fence off the existing homes that will be torn
 6   down. Mr. Paddock responded that the area will be fenced before construction begins and the homes
 7   will be razed before starting the project.
 8
 9   Mr. Holmes reported that the vehicular flow design was intended to minimize any backups. It will
10   consequently reduce the noise created by trucks backing in and out. There will be security perimeter
11   fencing with fabric to limit the visibility of the construction taking place. The goal was to limit the
12   impact on the neighbors and roadway access during construction.
13
14   Ulises Flynn moved to APPROVE the Site Plan Application 2023-01, for the City of Bluffdale
15   Public Works Complex, as submitted, based on the following:
16
17   Findings:
18
19          1.      That all requirements of the City Codes and adopted ordinances are met as
20                  applicable to a public use in the R-1-43 zone.
21
22          2.      That the site design has adhered to the City’s site plan design and landscaping
23                  requirements to the extent practicable, based on the unique use and operational
24                  requirements.
25
26   Erik Swanson seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ulises Flynn-Aye, Erik Swanson-Aye,
27   Tina Griffis-Aye, Kory Luker-Aye, Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
28   Alternate Planning Commissioner, Michael Kraupp did not participate in the vote.
29




                                                       6
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   LEGISLATIVE ITEMS
 2
 3   5.     PUBLIC HEARING, CONSIDERATION, AND RECOMMENDATION on Proposed
 4          Text Amendments to the Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinances Regarding Accessory
 5          Dwelling Units, Bluffdale City Code (“BCC”) Chapter 11.340 and Associated Definitions
 6          in the BCC 11.20, City of Bluffdale, Applicant. (Application 2022-49) – Staff Presenter,
 7          Grant Crowell.
 8
 9   Chair Cragun reported that the public hearing for the above item remained open from the previous
10   meeting. The Planning Commission was asked to forward a recommendation to the City Council.
11
12   Mr. Crowell thanked the Planning Commission for their feedback from the previous meeting. He
13   made changes to the proposed text amendments based on that feedback. Mayor Hall expressed deep
14   appreciation for the thoughtful consideration the Planning Commission gave to the proposed text
15   amendments. Pending concerns were design standards and the maximum and minimum size of
16   Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (DADU). Other concerns pertained to whether paved parking
17   should be required.
18
19   Mr. Crowell reported that he asked the City Attorney to review the draft, as well. Mr. Crowell
20   provided a brief overview of the changes made to the document. One question that was addressed
21   with the City Attorney was whether a homeowner could have both an Internal Accessory Dwelling
22   Unit (IADU) and a DADU. The legal opinion was that a homeowner could have both provided they
23   have adequate parking designated for the residents of both.
24
25   Chair Cragun asked that the document be reviewed from beginning to end.
26
27   Mr. Crowell presented the Definitions Section and reported that there are two types of Accessory
28   Dwelling Units (“ADU”) consisting of IADUs and DADUs. Mr. Crowell clarified that if an
29   individual wants to have a legal ADU the homeowner must occupy one of the units. Chair Cragun
30   asked why the ADU has to be a long-term rental unit. She gave an example of a person building a
31   DADU and allowing a family member to live in it rent-free. Mr. Crowell stated that he could allay
32   that concern by specifying rental or occupancy.
33


                                                       7
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   Commissioner Luker asked why the 30-day requirement was included in both the IADU and DADU
 2   definitions and not just consolidated by specifying the requirement for all ADUs. Mr. Crowell
 3   indicated that that would be an option. He did not object to redundancies when rules are being
 4   articulated. The 30-day requirement could be applied to ADUs, IADUs, and DADUs.
 5
 6   Mr. Crowell next reviewed the Scope Section. Commissioner Kraupp asked Mr. Crowell to explain
 7   the thought behind setting the square footage and the percentage level requirements. Mr. Crowell
 8   stated that the current City Ordinance does not have a 6,000-square-foot limitation for IADUs. The
 9   requirement stipulates anywhere a parking space can be placed. State Code specifies that ADUs do
10   not have to be allowed on lots smaller than 6,000 square feet. Beyond that minimum lot size
11   requirement, ADUs must be allowed. Mr. Crowell opted to emulate the State Code. There are parts
12   of Independence that could have lot sizes that are smaller than 6,000 square feet. The main concern
13   at the State and City levels is the provision of an off-street parking space for an ADU. The 10,000-
14   square-foot minimum requirement for DADUs was based on a discussion he had with the City
15   Council.
16
17   Commissioner Flynn considered the minimum requirements to be overly permissive, especially for
18   Independence, where the lots are small and cars are abundant, which makes parking challenging. Mr.
19   Crowell explained that the requirement cannot be more stringent than State Code. As a result, the
20   IADU requirement cannot change the minimum lot size requirement to anything greater than 6,000
21   square feet. Therefore, the proposed text amendment would be less permissive than what the City is
22   currently allowing for IADUs. The State is currently not addressing DADUs. Mr. Crowell noted that
23   paragraph A would be less permissive than the current norm. Paragraph B has no guidance from
24   State Code.
25
26   Chair Cragun asked if it was still the intent to use the R-1-43 Zone as the starting point for DADUs,
27   as discussed at the previous meeting. Mr. Crowell explained that that requirement would eliminate
28   Spring View Farms and Parry Farms, which are the primary neighborhoods with 10,000-square-foot
29   lots and other areas that are zoned R-1-10. Chair Cragun noted that Spring View Farms and Parry
30   Farms have Homeowners Associations (“HOA”), so they may have Codes, Covenants, and
31   Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) in place that prohibit DADUs. Mr. Crowell stated that the Planning
                                                      8
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                            BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   Commission will forward a recommendation to the City Council who will make the final decision.
 2   The consensus of the Commission was to support Paragraph A, as proposed. Paragraph B could be
 3   higher. Commissioner Luker felt that 10,000 square feet would be an appropriate lot size for a
 4   DADU. Commissioner Flynn felt that R-1-43 should still be the starting point.
 5
 6   Chair Cragun remarked that State mandates should not be the only consideration. She felt that
 7   Bluffdale needs to do its part to address the affordable housing problem. She also thought a lot about
 8   people’s property rights as she reviewed the draft. She was leaning toward not limiting personal
 9   property rights if the parking stipulation can be met. Commissioner Flynn did not want to exacerbate
10   the problem where overcrowding is already an issue. Chair Cragun commented that a query needed
11   to be made to determine how many 6,000 and 10,000-square-foot lots will be able to accommodate
12   an off-street parking space for an ADU.
13
14   Mr. Crowell stated that since there is a lack of consensus on certain aspects of the proposed text
15   amendments, the motion would need to address where there is and is no consensus. Commissioner
16   Flynn had no issues with the IADU but he had definite concerns with DADUs. Commissioner Griffis
17   was a firm believer in property rights and did not want to infringe on personal property rights. She
18   suggested that lot configurations and the protection of privacy be considered.
19
20   Mr. Crowell next addressed the Approval Process, which is an administrative matter. He explained
21   that to make an ADU legal, an application must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator and a
22   permit issued. During that process, a Building Permit must be obtained to ensure compliance with
23   the Building Code. The applicant must also confirm that they occupy one of the units. With regard
24   to Paragraph B, Mr. Crowell explained that a Land Use Permit runs with the land and the notice is
25   posted on the property record that is maintained by the City. The City Council does not want to
26   require an annual permitting process although some cities do have that requirement. A similar
27   requirement would be onerous and require more staff than the City has currently.
28
29   In response to Chair Cragun’s question about current non-conforming individuals as it pertains to
30   Paragraph E. Mr. Crowell stated that that issue is addressed later in the document. Some non-
31   conforming instances will have to be grandfathered into the new Code. With regard to the last

                                                       9
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1   sentence in Paragraph E, Mr. Crowell stated that it was the applicable Building Code when the ADU
 2   was first created and not necessarily the current Building Code. Mr. Crowell added that in the case
 3   of non-conforming ADUs, the main concern would be the assurance that the ADU is a safe, habitable
 4   place.
 5
 6   Mr. Crowell next addressed General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards. In particular, only one
 7   IADU is allowed in a home. An ADU cannot be in a mobile home or where there is an inadequate
 8   septic system. ADUs cannot have separate utility meters to prevent the splitting of lots. A property
 9   owner can allow a family member to stay in an ADU for free but it must not be used as an Airbnb.
10
11   Chair Cragun asked what other cities do with their percentage allowance ADUs. Mr. Crowell offered
12   to research that question. He noted that some lots in Bluffdale are very large.
13
14   Commissioner Luker asked if the suggested minimum of 400 square feet would fit in the size category
15   of the document. It was noted that there is no minimum size requirement for an IADU because it
16   might make it impossible for a homeowner to create a basement apartment as an IADU.
17
18   Mr. Crowell explained that Paragraph I specifies that the homeowner must live on the property where
19   an ADU is located. Paragraph I includes exceptions to that requirement. The homeowner can live in
20   the larger or smaller dwelling unit. Commissioner Kraupp asked how compliance would be enforced,
21   particularly in a scenario where the property owner has sold the property and vacated the primary
22   residence but the renter still lives in the ADU. Mr. Crowell stated that Code Enforcement has to wait
23   until there is a complaint before verifying non-compliance. Prosecution of code violation takes place
24   in a criminal court, so the City must have clearly defensible evidence to present in court. The City is
25   considering the implementation of a Civil Court that would allow for a lesser evidentiary standard.
26   Unless there is an issue, the City will never hear about it.
27
28   Commissioner Kraupp said that the language needs to be changed to accommodate the fact that a
29   person selling their property needs flexibility to move out before the sale closes but not evict the
30   renter.   Mr. Crowell stated that an ADU, by definition, must have the areas needed to live
31   independently such as a private entrance, bathroom, kitchen area, living area, and sleeping area. Mr.


                                                        10
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 15, 2023

1    Crowell explained that the obvious, observable problem is the lack of parking. Taking non-
2    compliance to a criminal court would require significant time and expense. There was discussion
3    regarding the potential problems associated with having a minimum lot size of less than 400 square
4    feet.
5
6    Mr. Crowell explained that although Paragraph K does not allow a property owner to have both an
7    IADU and a DADU, it would be difficult to tell someone that if they are going to build a DADU on
8    their property, they may not rent out their current IADU. It was clarified that this is a zoning issue.
9    Mr. Crowell indicated that he would need to revise Paragraph K which states that property cannot
10   contain both a DADU and an IADU. If the parking requirement is met, that should be sufficient.
11
12   Paragraph L addresses parking. The parking provided for residents of ADUs must be an all-weather
13   surface rolled with compacted road base, asphalt, or concrete. Chair Cragun considered these options
14   to be reasonable. Mr. Crowell emphasized that ADU parking must be off-street. Commissioner
15   Flynn addressed the number of parking places that might be needed to allow for off-street parking.
16   There was discussion regarding the merits of basing the number of parking stalls on the number of
17   bedrooms. The current requirement for IADUs is one parking place.
18
19   Paragraph Q regarding addressing was an issue because it might give the impression of splitting a lot
20   and make it confusing to sort out the mail for the residents of the primary dwelling and the ADU.
21   The consensus was to allow the use of unit numbers. The Post Office would also likely be supportive
22   of the use of separate mailboxes.
23
24   Paragraph R was not seen as a problem in terms of allowing an ADU to run with the land.
25
26   Commissioner Flynn thought it might be prudent to pause the discussion and table the matter to the
27   next Planning Commission Meeting. A consensus of the Commission agreed.
28
29   Ulises Flynn moved to TABLE discussion of the proposed text amendments to the Bluffdale
30   City Land Use Ordinances regarding Accessory Dwelling Units, Bluffdale City Code (“BCC”)
31   Chapter 11.340 and Associated Definitions in the BCC 11.20, and leave the public hearing open.
32   Erik Swanson seconded the motion. Vote on motion: Ulises Flynn-Aye, Erik Swanson-Aye,

                                                       11
                            DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 15, 2023

1    Tina Griffis-Aye, Kory Luker-Aye, Debbie Cragun-Aye. The motion passed unanimously.
2    Alternate Planning Commissioner, Michael Kraupp, did not participate in the vote.
3
4    Mr. Crowell invited the Planning Commissioners to ask any questions they may have before the next
5    meeting.
 6
 7   DISCUSSION ITEMS
 8
 9   6.     Planning Commissioner Business
10
11   Mr. Crowell reported a meeting is scheduled for April 5 to continue the discussion on the text
12   amendments. There will be time to conduct Planning Commission training as well. He asked the
13   Planning Commissioners to tell him what they would like to learn about traffic studies. Chair Cragun
14   stated that the detail was not needed but there is a common perception among residents that traffic
15   will be negatively impacted while the Traffic Study results were to the contrary. She wanted to learn
16   how to deal with the two sides of that debate. Mr. Crowell explained that all of the studies are based
17   on metrics that are established elements of the industry standards for traffic study analyses. He noted
18   that people will seldom be pacified by the methodology of traffic studies if they disagree with the
19   findings.
20
21   Mr. Crowell reported that the March 22 City Council meeting would tentatively be canceled.
22
23   In response to Commissioner Swanson’s question regarding Planning Commission elections for Chair
24   and Vice Chair, Mr. Crowell stated that that should be happening soon.
25
26   In response to Commissioner Swanson’s question regarding the 2023 Utah legislative session,
27   Mr. Crowell reported that there were a few changes. Staff would be getting some training. Bluffdale
28   was ahead of the curve since a law was passed that would allow elected bodies to not be the approval
29   authority for subdivision plats. He assumed the Governor would sign the bill into law. Previously,
30   the City Council was the approval authority.
31
32   Changes were also made to some noticing requirements. Some laws passed that deal with the number
33   of submittal reviews can take place on a proposal.


                                                       12
                             DRAFT – FOR DISCUSSION PURPOSES ONLY

                             BLUFFDALE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
                                      MEETING MINUTES
                                    Wednesday, March 15, 2023

 1
 2   Mr. Crowell reported that the Utah League of Cities and Towns (“ULCT”) has some open training
 3   for Legislative Updates on April 5 and a Housing Training on March 29. The training is free and
 4   can be accessed via Zoom.
 5
 6   Mr. Crowell reported that the Grand Opening of the new restaurant went well. It took two years and
 7   three months from the first phone call to the City to the Grand Opening.
 8
 9   In response to Commissioner Flynn’s question regarding the Holiday Oil status, Mr. Crowell reported
10   that it is coming along. The owners are determined to get it done in spite of the hurdles that have
11   impeded progress. In addition, a site plan for a 7-Eleven on Porter Rockwell and Redwood Road has
12   been approved.
13
14   Mr. Crowell reported that there are a lot of projects in the queue but financing needs to be determined.
15
16   7.     Adjournment.
17
18   The Planning Commission Meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.
19
20
21
22   __________________________________
23   Tiffini Shinsel, Community Development Coordinator
24
25   Approved: _________________________




                                                       13
MEMORANDUM

TO:             Planning Commission
FROM:           Grant Crowell
DATE:           30 March 2023
SUBJECT:        Accessory Dwelling Units Updates

At the Planning Commission meeting on March 15, 2023, the Commission went through the first
portion of the ordinance amendments in detail. We left off on section 11/240.050. Some follow-up
items were requested and some modifications were made to the updated and attached draft. These
items are:

    •   Added “or occupancy” to the definitions of I-ADU and D-ADU so that it doesn’t necessarily
        have to be rented (could be gifted, family usage, traded for services, etc.), and the same
        phrasing to the base definition for all ADUs
    •   Added a 90 day exception for occupancy during ownership changes
    •   Fixed formatting and incomplete sentences in 11.440.040(L) and (N)

Things discussed in detail but not modified:
    • Threshold for lot size which allows ADUs to be located upon
           o Some other examples across the state did not prove consistent, for example:
                   ▪ Erda has no small zoning districts, so D-ADUs are allowed on ½ acre lots, max
                       size 1500 square feet
                   ▪ Tooele minimum lot size for D-ADU is 8,500 square feet, for I-ADUs is 6,000
                       square feet, min size 800 sf, max 1200 sf
                   ▪ Weber County appears to allow D-ADUs in most zones, including those less than
                       20,000 sf, which has some modified standards for lot coverage; min size 400,
                       max 2000, unless it takes up entire basement
                   ▪ Ivins has guest houses or casitas, but appears to restricts rental of them
                   ▪ Many rural areas I looked up seem to have out of date codes and hindered the
                       research
                   ▪ My finding is it is all across the board, many places allow them by right, some
                       have clear policy goals in mind, density, size, and appearance
Exhibit A –
City of Bluffdale
Draft Text Amendments to Accessory Dwelling Unit Land Use Regulations found in Bluffdale City
Code – 3/30/23

11.20.020 Definitions
Add New Definitions:
…

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A habitable living unit added to, created within, or detached from
a primary dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental or
occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED (D-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit, located in a permanent
structure with a permanent foundation, detached from a primary dwelling for the purpose of offering
a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL (I-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit created:
        A. Within a primary dwelling;
         B. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
is created; and
C. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty (30) consecutive days or
longer.
PRIMARY DWELLING: A single family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary
residence of the owner of record.
…

UPDATE EXISTING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE FOR ALL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
(repeal and replace existing ADU Code in its entirety)

11.340 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
11.340.010 Purpose
11.340.020 Scope
11.340.030 Approval Process
11.340.040 General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards
11.340.050 D-ADU Development Standards
11.340.060 I-ADU Standards
11.340.070 Recorded Notice
11.340.080 Nonconforming Units
11.340.090 Violations

11.340.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter and any rules, regulations, standards and specifications adopted pursuant
hereto are to:


                                                   1
    A. Permit property owners within certain residential zones to establish an accessory dwelling unit
       (ADU) within a single-family dwelling or accessory building subject to regulations set forth
       herein.
    B. Accommodate such housing in certain single-family residential zones with minimal impacts on
       the neighborhood in terms of traffic, noise, parking, congestion and compatible scale and
       appearance of residential buildings.
    C. Prevent the proliferation of rental dwellings, absentee ownership, property disinvestment,
       Building Code violations and associated decline in quality of single-family residential zones.
    D. Set forth standardized terms and standards for accessory dwelling units and procedures for
       review and approval of the same.

11.340.020 Scope

The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all ADUs within the City.

    A. Internal ADUs (I-ADUs) shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts, mixed
       use zones, and special district zones within single family dwellings on parcels greater than 6,000
       square feet.
    B. Detached ADUs (D-ADUs) shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts,
       mixed use zones, and special district zones on individual lots or parcels 10,000 square feet or
       greater in size that contain no more than one single-family dwelling.

11.340.030 Approval Process

    A. All property owners desiring to establish an ADU must apply for, and obtain, approval prior to
       utilizing the accessory dwelling unit, using forms provided by the Planning Department.
    B. An ADU shall not be rented or leased or offered for rent or lease unless the owner of record
       possesses a valid ADU permit.
    C. Applications for ADUs shall be reviewed and approved by the designated Land Use Authority in
       accordance with subsection 11.030.090(I) of this title. The applicant and/or any person
       adversely affected by a decision of the Land Use Authority regarding the proposed ADU may
       appeal such decision to the Appeal Authority, as designated in subsection 11.030.090(I)of this
       title, by filing written notice of appeal with the Planning Department within ten (10) calendar
       days from the date of such decision.
    D. An ADU Permit issued by the Zoning Administrator shall be required for the development and
       use of any ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and standards of this chapter as
       applicable to the specific type of ADU are met.
    E. Building Permit required. All applicants for ADU approval shall obtain a building permit for
       construction or inspection associated with the proposed ADU, regardless of method of
       creation or whether a non-permitted ADU has previously completed construction. No ADU
       permit and/or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for an ADU until all associated
       construction is complete and inspected pursuant to applicable building codes.
    F. Statement of Owner Occupancy. An application for an ADU shall include documentation, using
       forms provided by the Planning Department, that demonstrates an owner occupant resides in
       one of the approved dwelling units on the property.



                                                   2
11.340.040 General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards
The following standards and conditions shall apply to all accessory dwelling units:

   A. Location: An I-ADU must be enclosed within the primary dwelling.
   B. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one I-ADU. I-ADUs are not permitted
      within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
   C. I-ADUs shall not be permitted in single-family residential dwellings located on lots or parcels
      that are six-thousand square feet (6,000 ft²) or less in size.
   D. I-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
   E. ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit or on a parcel serviced by a failing
      septic system.
   F. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any I-ADU or D-ADU.
   G. An I-ADU or D-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a time period of less than thirty (30)
      consecutive days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one time.
   H. Size: The accessory dwelling unit shall be accessory and subordinate to the primary dwelling.
      For purposes of this subsection, accessory and subordinate requires the accessory dwelling
      unit to be no more than fifty percent (50%) of the total square footage of the dwelling.
   I. The primary dwelling associated with any ADU shall be occupied by the owner of record as their
      primary residence and shall not be separately rented or offered for rent. If the primary dwelling
      associated with the ADU ceases to be occupied by the owner of record, the ADU shall not be
      rented, leased, hired or loaned. Owner occupancy of the primary dwelling shall not be required
      when:
          a. The owner has a bona fide, temporary absence of three years or less for activities such
               as military service, temporary job assignments, sabbaticals, or voluntary service
               (indefinite periods of absence from the dwelling shall not qualify for this exception); or
          b. The owner is placed in a hospital, nursing home, assisted living facility or other similar
               facility that provides regular medical care, excluding retirement living facilities or
               communities;
          c. The property is changing ownership for up to 90 days; or
          d. The owner lives in the approved ADU.

   J. Number: A maximum of one ADU shall be allowed per parcel which contains a primary dwelling.
      ADUs shall contain no more than one dwelling unit.
   K. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an I-ADU. As a condition of approval
      for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to waive any right to create an I-ADU on the
      same property unless the D-ADU is first removed from the property. This condition shall be
      included in the recorded notice of accessory dwelling unit required by section 11.340.070 of this
      chapter.
   L. Parking: At least one (1) off street parking stall shall be constructed for a I-ADU. A minimum of
      two (2) off street parking spaces shall be constructed for a D-ADU. Parking stalls for ADUs
      shall be constructed of an all-weather surface rolled and compacted road base, asphalt, or
      concrete surface which meet the dimensional requirements of Chapter 11.120 of this Title.
      Such parking stalls shall be in addition to all off street parking requirements for the primary
      dwelling on the lot and be reserved for exclusive use by occupants of the approved ADU. The
      parking stall shall be located behind the front plane of the dwelling and shall not impede or
      prevent access to the primary dwelling's required parking. The parking stall may be in a


                                                   3
       garage only if the stall is in addition to the required number of parking spaces for the primary
       dwelling and is not a tandem parking stall. Driveways must conform to all applicable building
       and fire code requirements and adopted standards. See Figure 1 for illustration of
       permissible parking locations for ADUs.
    M. All ADUs shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in effect at the time
       the ADU is constructed, created or subsequently remodeled. The owner of record shall be
       responsible to ensure that all required building permits and other permits are obtained for the
       creation of an ADU.
    N.
       ADUs that have been previously constructed before May 1, 2023, and cannot be shown to have
       complied with permit and inspection requirements in effect at the time of their construction
       shall comply with the requirements of the International Existing Building Code and other
       applicable adopted building and fire codes and shall comply with all permit procedures and
       requirements of the City.

    O. Number of Residents. The total number of residents that reside in an ADU may not exceed the
    number allowed for a “family” for the lot on which the accessory dwelling unit is found, as defined
    in BCC 11.20.

    P. Home Occupations. Home occupations may be conducted in an ADU as allowed per Title 3 of
    the BCC. Standards for home occupations and associated impacts shall be calculated on a total
    per parcel basis, not per ADU.

    Q. Addressing. Separate addressing and mailboxes for ADUs are not allowed.

    R. Continuing Use: Approval of an ADU shall run with the land if it complies with all adopted
    requirements.

11.340.050: D-ADU Development Standards:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:
A. Separate Structure: A D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary dwelling contained on the
same lot or parcel as the primary dwelling.
B. Conditions: A D-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 11.340.040 of this
Title and all the following conditions:
1. Only one D-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
2. A D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for an accessory building in the zoning district in
which the lot or parcel is located. Regardless of size, a D-ADU cannot be created within a building or
structure which has utilized the reduced side and rear setbacks allowed for small accessory buildings
or structures in BCC 11.160.260. All structures shall also comply with the maximum lot coverage
percentages for the zone in which it resides.
3. A D-ADU shall be located within the rear or side yard area of the lot or parcel and is prohibited
within the front yard area.


                                                    4
4. The total square footage of a D-ADU shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the primary dwelling's
total square footage not including the garage and shall be 400 square feet or greater.
5. A D-ADU shall comply with all building construction and fire codes in effect at the time the D-ADU is
constructed, created or subsequently remodeled, including obtaining the required building and other
permits.
6. The architectural design, color pallet, and materials of a D-ADU shall be designed to follow the
architectural design, style, and character of the primary dwelling. The exterior surface finishes shall
have the same visual appearance of the exterior materials and colors of the main building. Structures
used for a D-ADU, which received final city occupancy approval before May 1, 2023, and which are not
architecturally compatible with the main dwelling may be considered legal non-conforming relative
to this design requirement. The following standards apply:
        a. A D-ADU shall incorporate at least one of the exterior materials used the in the primary
        dwelling for 20% of all facades of the D-ADU structure.
        b. A D-ADU shall maintain the same color of the primary dwelling for a least 50 percent of all
        facades.
        c. D-ADUs which are constructed in a second floor or story shall have a pitched roof unless the
        primary dwelling has a flat roof, in which case the D-ADU may have a flat or pitched roof.
8. D-ADUs shall be a permanent structure anchored to a foundation which meets the adopted building
codes. Trailers, mobile homes, tiny homes with wheels, and other portable or temporary structures, or
structures with wheels shall not be permitted as a D-ADU.
9. Exterior lighting shall provide illumination directed downward. Light source shall not be visible
from adjacent properties.
10. Windows on a façade, located within 20 feet of an adjacent property containing a single family or
townhome residence shall be translucent or installed as a skylight.
11. Exterior stairways and landings shall not encroach within 20 feet of an adjacent property
containing a single family or townhome residence.
12. Balconies on a D-ADU shall be located on the interior side of the lot and building, not adjacent to a
rear or side yard shared with a neighboring residence, and:
        a. Shall not exceed 80 square feet in size when located above the ground level of the building;
        b. Shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from a side or rear yard lot line unless the applicable
        side or rear yard lot line is adjacent to an alley;
       c. Rooftop decks or second-story decks are prohibited on an accessory structure used as a D-
       ADU.
13. The height of a D-ADU shall conform to the height limit specified for accessory buildings in the
zoning district in which it is located.
14.     A second kitchen in a D-ADU is not allowed.



                                                    5
15. Entrance Locations. The entrance to an accessory dwelling unit in an accessory building shall be
located:

                (a) Facing an alley, public street or facing the rear facade of the single-family dwelling
                on the same property.

                (b) Facing a side or rear property line provided the entrance is located a minimum of
                10 feet from the side or rear property line if at ground level or first story level or 20
                feet from side or rear property line if above the first story.

                (c) Exterior stairs leading to an entrance shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from a
                side or rear property line.

       FIGURE 1 PERMISSIBLE ADU PARKING LOCATIONS




                                                    6
11.34.060: I-ADU Development Standards:
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each I-ADU:
A. Existing Structure: An I-ADU shall be contained within the existing footprint of the primary
dwelling. The existence of a second kitchens within the primary dwelling's footprint does not, by itself,
qualify a living space an I-ADU. An existing second kitchen located within a primary dwelling can be
converted to an I-ADU as part of an application for the creation of an I-ADU in compliance with all
other standards for I-ADUs listed in this chapter.
B. Conditions: An I-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter and with all the
following conditions:
1. Only one I-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
2. If an I-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary dwelling, the parking
spaces contained within the garage or carport that are removed shall be replaced in accordance with
current parking and access standards.
3. The I-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health, and fire codes in effect at the time the
I-ADU is constructed, created, or subsequently remodeled. The owner of record shall be responsible to
ensure that all required building permits and other permits are obtained for the creation of an I-ADU.

4. In accommodating an I-ADU within the primary dwelling, the exterior of the primary dwelling may
not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter the appearance of the primary dwelling from
that of a single-family dwelling.
5.       Design And Character: I-ADUs shall retain the compatibility of the primary dwelling with the
residential character of the neighborhood. I-ADUs shall include materials comparable to those used on
and within the primary dwelling. Construction Codes: The I-ADU shall comply with all adopted building
and fire codes in effect at the time the accessory dwelling unit is constructed and shall comply with all
procedures and requirements of the City building regulations.

Ownership: The single-family dwelling and the I-ADU shall remain in single ownership and either the
single-family dwelling or the I-ADU shall be owner occupied

6. Entrance Locations. Entrances to an I-ADU shall only be permitted in the following locations:

        (a) An existing entrance to the single-family dwelling;
        (b) Exterior stairs on lots other than a corner lot, leading to an entrance above or below the
        first level of the principal structure, may be located on a side or rear elevation of a building;
        (c) Located on the rear facade of the dwelling.

11.340.070 Recorded Notice


A. As part of the ADU permit process, the owner of the property shall execute a “notice
of accessory dwelling unit” affidavit. The city shall record the notice with the County Recorder as a use

                                                     7
condition on the property. The notice shall be in a form approved by the Bluffdale City attorney. Once
recorded, a copy of the notice shall be delivered to the owner of record.
B. The notice of accessory dwelling unit shall include:
1. A legal description and address of the property; and
2. Either of the following statements as applicable to the type of ADU permit being issued:
a. The primary dwelling contains an approved I-ADU and that the I-ADU may only be used in
accordance with the land use regulations of the City of Bluffdale; or
b. The property has an approved D-ADU and that the D-ADU may only be used in accordance with the
land use regulations of the City of Bluffdale.


11.340.080: Nonconforming Units:
A. ADUs legally established prior to May 1, 2023, may continue to operate under the applicable
provisions in effect at the time they were approved and established in accordance with this chapter of
the BCC. Provided, however, legal nonconforming ADUs shall obtain and maintain an ADU permit
under the procedures of section 11.340.070.
11.340.090 Violations
Violations of this chapter shall be enforced consistent with this title and Utah state code and may
include fines and liens.
A. Notice of Violation:
1. Whenever an owner of record has violated any of the provisions of this chapter the City shall
provide a written notice of violation. The notice of violation shall:
a. Describe the violation;
b. Provide the owner of record an opportunity to cure or correct the violation that is:
(1) Not less than fourteen (14) days after the notice of violation is issued, for violations of BCC
11.340.040(G);
(2) Not less than thirty (30) days after the notice of violation is issued for any other violation;
c. Include a statement that if the owner of record fails to cure the violation within the given time
period that they may be subject to daily fines, liens, the revocation of permits or approvals, criminal
prosecution, and other enforcement actions permitted by applicable law;
d. Provide notification to the owner of record that they may file a written objection to the violation
within fourteen (14) days after the day on which the written notice of violation is post-marked or
posted on the property;
e. Indicate the department name and address where the owner of record may file the written
objection;



                                                      8
f. Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to receive notice in the
owner's license or permit records, and a copy shall be posted on the property.
2. If an owner of record files a written objection to the written notice of violation in accordance with
Utah Code 10-9a-530(5) as amended, the Zoning Administrator shall provide notice, hold a hearing,
and conduct a review to determine whether the violation described in the written notice of violation
has occurred. If the Zoning Administrator determines that the violation in the notice of violation has
occurred, the city may impose any of the remedies listed in this section or others as permitted by
applicable law.
3. If an owner of record does not file a written objection to the notice of violation and does not cure
the violation within the time period provided in the notice, the city may impose any of the remedies
listed in this section or others as permitted by applicable law.
4. If an owner of record cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the notice of violation,
or if the Zoning Administrator finds that the violation listed in the notice of violation has not occurred,
the city may not impose sanctions.
B. Liens:
1. Notice of lien:
a. A written notice of lien issued under this section shall:
(1) Comply with the requirements of Utah Code 38-12-102 as amended;
(2) State that the property is subject to a lien;
(3) Specify the lien amount for each day of violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure
the violation expired; and
(4) Be mailed to the owner of record, or to any other individual designated to receive notice in the
owner's license or permit records, and a copy of the notice shall be posted on the property.
b. Each notice of lien shall be recorded with the respective county recorder.
C. Remedies:
1. Revocation.
a. In addition to cases of an uncured violation as set forth above, an ADU permit may be revoked if
the Zoning Administrator determines:
(1) The permit was procured by false representation; or
(2) The permit was issued by mistake.
b. After the written notice of revocation is served no further construction for an ADU may continue
until a new permit is issued, or the permit is reinstated by the Zoning Administrator.
c. If the permit was issued by mistake, the city shall notify the owner of record of the mistake and the
actions or changes that must be made to bring the ADU into compliance with applicable requirements
and ordinances.


                                                     9
d. For properties where a permit has been revoked for any reason other than a mistake, a new or
reinstated ADU permit may not be issued except in conformance with applicable ordinances,
resolutions, regulations, and requirements.
e. Properties for which an ADU permit has been revoked may be subject to the recordation of a notice
of non-compliance against the property and shall be prohibited from renting, leasing, hiring or
loaning the accessory dwelling unit.
2. The city shall have such other remedies as are and may be from time to time provided by Utah law
or city ordinance for the violation of any provision of this title.
3. All remedies pertaining to violations of this chapter are cumulative.




                                                   10
