Cn WEST VALLEY CITY
——— | wy ; a
ans ©
2025 DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY
State of Utah
}ss.
Salt Lake County
Print name EXAGTLY as it is Jo appear on the official ballot. No changes can be made after 5:00 p.m. on June 6, 2025.
declare my intention of becoming a candidate for the office of:
Mayor (Four-Year Term)
At-Large Council (Four-Year Term)
él ouncil District # 2 (Four-Year Term)
Council District # 4 (Four -Year Term)
I, under penalty of perjury, do solemnly swear, that: I meet the qualifications to hold the office, both legally and constitutionally.
I reside at = 29 6 Ss. F GY oD WW, in West Valley City, Utah, _ 8420
Phone Number: Go (~" 7o8- IQ4¢S8 _ E-mail Address Fellinako | ee —————
Website:
Jam a registered voter in West Valley City, Utah. I will not knowingly violate any law governing campaigns and elections, If filing via
a designated agent, | attest that I will be out of the state of Utah during the entire candidate filing period. 1 will file all campaign
financial disclosure reports as required by law and | understand that failure to do so will result in my disqualification as a candidate
for this office and removal of my name from the ballot. 1 request that my name be printed upon the applicable official ballots.
Signatt peeve cae idate
Subscribed and sworn before me this \o day of JU ie . 2025.
iy ie f AN ~ os
fas? — pam ,
By: ~ call Nt | pn -_
City Recordgr a a
CVS
\VA
Nani’ j
SOS AD
“PORATE 5
3600 South Constitution Boulevard, West Valley City, Utah, 84119 | Phone: 801-963-3220 | Fax: 801-963-3206

Please initial:
The filing officer read the constitutional and statutory qualifications as listed below to me, and I meet those qualifications.
‘ I understand that an individual who holds a municipal elected office may not, at the same time, hold a county elected office.
: CO I agree to file all campaign financial disclosure reports, and I understand that failure to do so may result in my
disqualification as a candidate for this office, possible fines and/or criminal penalties, including removal of my name from
the ballot.
have complied with the conflict of interest disclosure requirements as required in 10-3-301.5.
received a copy of the pledge of fair campaign practices, and I understand that signing this pledge is voluntary.
I provided a valid email, or physical address if no email is available, and I understand this will be used for official
communications and updates from election officials.
a —F . . . . . .
nderstand I will receive all financial disclosure notices by email.
understand my name will appear on the ballot as it is printed on this declaration of candidacy, and that | may not make any
mendments or modifications after 5:00 p.m. on June 6, 2025.
I have received a copy of Section 20A-7-801 regarding the eee Electronic Voter Information Website Program and its
applicable deadline. Meee Yoo
+ j ra
Sf =\
0 , .
ignature of Filing Officer Date
‘ j
\ ‘
\ f
QUALIFICA ins
"Pp met
ORATE 35
Before the filing officer accepts any declaration of candidacy, the filing officer shall read to the candidate the constitutional and
statutory requirements for candidacy, and the candidate shall state whether he/she fulfills the requirements. If the candidate
indicates that he/she does not qualify, the filing officer may not accept his/her declaration of candidacy (Utah Code Section 20A-
9-203).
MUNICIPAL CANDIDATE
Utah Code §10-3-301
Utah Code §20A-9-203
= Registered voter in the municipality in which the individual is elected*
= Must have resided within the municipality for which the candidate is seeking office for the 12 consecutive months immediately
before the date of the election.
= Maintain a principal place of residence within the municipality. and within the district that the elected officer represents. during the
officer's term of office
= — If the individual resides in a territory which was annexed into the municipality: must have resided within the annexed territory or the
municipality the 12 consecutive months immediately before the date of the election.
= Pay filing fee, if one is required by municipal ordinance
= Not convicted of a felony. treason. crime. or offense relating to elections** .
= — Cannot have been declared mentally incompetent
* Utah Code §20A-2-101 states: A registered voter (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a resident of Utah; (3) will. on the date of that election,
be at least 18 years old. (4) has been a resident of Utah for 30 days tmmediately before that election; (5) and ts registered to vote.
** Utah Code §20A-2-101.5 states: A person convicted of a felony loses the right to hold office until (1) all felony convictions have been expunged, OR
(2) ten years have passed since the most recent felony conviction AND the person has paid all court-ordered restitution and fines AND the person has
completed probation, been granted parole, or completed the term of incarceration associated with the felony.
