Meeting Body: Magna Planning
Commission
Meeting Date: September 12,
                                                                 REQUEST
2024
                                       Jeffery Copeland is making a rezone request on behalf of
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning
                                       Habitat for Humanity. Habitat for Humanity is requesting
Manager
                                       that the property be rezoned to accommodate 4 dwelling
Project Name and File Number:          units on the ½ acre subject parcel.
REZ2024-001105 – Habitat for
                                                                LOCATION
Humanity Rezone Request
                                       The property is located along 2820 S and is surrounded by
Current Zone: A-1/zc
                                       residential land uses. The areas to the north and west are
Requested Zone: RM/zc                  zoned R-1-10 and the areas to the east and south are
Project Address: 7563 West 2820        zoned A-1/zc. The residences within the immediate vicinity
South                                  of the subject parcel are all detached single-family
                                       residences, situated primarily on 10,000 square foot lots.
Parcel ID: 14-28-209-013-0000
                                       The area within ¼ mile includes a mix of densities and unit
Applicant(s):                          types.
Jeffrey Copeland                                         Figure 1 - Location Map
Key Findings:
•   The proposed rezone is
    compatible with the Adopted
    General Plan.
•   The proposed rezone has no
    discernable negative impact
    on the public health, safety
    and welfare.
•   The proposed rezone
    represents a continuation of a
    development pattern in this
    area that includes a mix of
    densities and dwelling types.
Attachments:                                           SUMMARY/BACKGROUND
1. Location Map                        The applicant originally applied for a rezone to R-2-6.5,
2. Conceptual Site Plan and            with the intention of placing 6 dwelling on the subject
   elevations (for illustration        parcel. The Planning Commission held a public hearing for
   purposes only).                     the proposed rezone in May 2024. After having heard from

                     [Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 1 of 9
the applicant and a number of neighboring property owners and other members of the public,
the Planning Commission recommended that the Council deny this rezone. The feedback
from the public about the number of units and the height of the proposed structures
prompted the applicant to have conversations with some of the neighbors about
development options. The applicant tabled their rezone request in order to explore their
options.
In August 2024, the applicant came back to the Planning Commission with a 4 unit proposal
in the form of 2 single story twin home structures. The applicant was now requesting the R-
1-5 zone that they had been led to believe would allow them to build the 4 unit project that
they were requesting. The Planning Commission again held a public hearing and again the
feedback from the neighbors and the public was not supportive. Additionally, a Planning
Commission member noted that the maximum density allowed in the R-1-5 zone is 7 units
per acre, meaning that the maximum density on ½ acre would be 3½ units rather than the 4
units the applicant desires. The Planning Commission moved to approve the proposed rezone,
but the vote, 2 ayes and 2 nays, did not result in a recommendation for either approval or
denial. The application was forwarded to the Council, who then remanded the case back to
the Planning Commission in order to obtain a clear recommendation.
Staff have advised the applicant that the R-1-5 zone will not provide the needed density. In
the R-1-5 a standard subdivision would allow 8 units per acre / 4 units per half acre (21,780
sf / 5000 = 4.36 du/acre). However, in the R-1-5 zone, PUD density is capped at 7 units per
acre (Table 19.28.030). Staff had mistakenly advised the applicant that an R-1-5 rezone would
suffice.
The applicant is seeking a rezone to build 4 units on ½ acre. In order to accomplish this, the
applicant needs a rezone to R-1-4 (9.0 units per acre maximum density), R-2-6.5 (12 units per
acre), or the Multi-Family Residential Zone (RM). The Multi-Family Residential Zone allows 25
units per acre unless a zoning condition is placed on the rezone limiting density to a lower
number of units. Staff have recommended that the applicant seek a rezone to Multi-Family
Residential Zone (RM) with a zoning condition limiting the development to 4 total units on
the ½ acre subject parcel. The applicant is now requesting the RM/zc Zone with a condition
limiting development to 4 units.
                                       STAFF ANALYSIS

Moderate Income Housing Plan:

In response to the lack of affordable housing in the State of Utah, municipalities are required to
select and adopt strategies from a list of options to bring in more housing for moderate income
households. Magna City selected five of the criteria to adopt into Magna’s Moderate Income
Housing Plan. This proposed rezone fulfills one of the criteria that Magna has adopted. Criteria F
which is to zone or rezone for higher density or moderate income residential development near

                  [Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 2 of 9
major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers. 7563 W 2820 S is
located close to employment centers that are located near SR-201.

Review Criteria:

There are eight guidelines to consider when considering a zoning map amendment (Magna Code,
Table 19.18.080). These factors are not binding approval criteria but are merely a guide as to issues
that may be considered in forming a recommendation.

Criteria 1. The proposed (zoning) amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.

   Magna’s General Plan calls out this part of Magna as a residential mixed density area. The
   general plan defines the residential mixed density area as having densities ranging from R-1-
   8 (4.5 units per acre) to R-2-6.5 (up to 12 units per acre) with a mix of single family homes and
   duplexes. The requested 8 units per acre (4 units per ½ acre) density falls within this suggested
   density range.

Criteria 2. The proposed (zoning) amendment promotes the public health, safety and welfare.

   There have not been any comments from reviewing agencies that are opposed to the rezone
   on public health, safety, statutory, or technical grounds. The proposed (zoning) amendment
   has no discernable or quantifiable negative impact on the public health, safety and welfare.

Criteria 3. The proposed (zoning) amendment is a more suitable zoning classification for the
property than the current classification.

   Suitability is a subjective measure, not a quantifiable one. Viewed through the lens of Magna’s
   General Plan, the proposed (zoning) amendment is a more suitable zoning classification for
   the property than the current classification when the proposed zoning condition is applied.

   When viewed through the lens of the adjacent property owners and that adjacent pattern of
   development, it represents an unsuitable doubling of the allowed dwelling units per acre, even
   though the project area is very small.

   This portion of the city, bounded by the Riter Canal to the north, 2820 South Street to the
   south, 8000 West to the west and 7200 West to the east, is home to 4 major Planned Unit
   Developments. These developments contain at least as many townhomes, twin homes and
   other units on lots 6,000 square feet or smaller or at densities exceeding 8 units per acre as
   those on lots with 8,000 square feet or more. When viewed through that lens the proposed
   rezone is a continuation of a mix of densities that has been perpetuated since the early 1980’s.

Criteria 4. The proposed (zoning) amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes
of the ordinance.

   The proposed zone change is not at odds with the purposes of the ordinance. The applicant
   has followed the correct procedures and is going through the process that Magna has created


                   [Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 3 of 9
   to allow for a rezone. According to the Magna General Plan, the future use envisioned for this
   area is in-line with what zone that the applicant has proposed.

Criteria 5. The proposed (zoning) amendment corrects an error or omission, adds clarification to
existing requirements, or reflects a change in policy.

   This criterion is not applicable to this rezone as it is not intended to be a correction.

Criteria 6. The proposed (zoning) amendment benefits the citizen of the municipality as a whole.

   This rezone would allow for a mix of densities development than what is currently allowed
   while both maintaining a similar feel to the surrounding community and allowing for the
   creation of affordable housing. The land is owned by Habitat for Humanity, a non-
   governmental organization, that seeks to provide affordable housing to those who come from
   low-income or disadvantaged backgrounds.

Criteria 7. The proposed (zoning) amendment does not create a significant number of
nonconformities.

   The subject parcel is currently vacant and undeveloped No nonconformity would be created
   by this zone change.

                             Figure 2 – Development Trends Map




Criteria 8. The proposed (zoning) amendment is compatible with the trend of development in the
general area of the property.



                  [Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 4 of 9
    One of the first developments in this area was the Copperview Village, a townhome project
    within 1/8 mile of the subject parcel, where construction began in the early 1980’s. Most of
    the existing development in this portion of the city is from the 2000s and later. Some of the
    developments in the area have densities around a 3-5 units per acre, while other developments
    include duplexes or townhomes that have similar or even higher densities to what is being
    proposed. The proposed zoning amendment would allow for “attached” single-family homes,
    also known as “twin homes.” The trend of development in this area is a mix of densities and
    dwelling types, with neighborhoods of exclusively larger lots bordering on or located near
    twin home and town home neighborhoods. The proposed rezone represents a continuation
    of that trend. (See Figure 2)

Issues of Concern/Proposed Mitigation:

The Development Review Committee (DRC) and associated reviewing agencies have reviewed the
application and have not identified any issues with the rezone. Because this review is for a rezone,
only conceptual layouts and elevations have been submitted. The applicant will need to apply for
either a PUD in accordance with Chapter 19.18 or a Subdivision in accordance with Title 18 to
develop the property. The DRC will conduct technical reviews of those future applications.

                                   STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

    1. The proposed (zoning) amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan.
    2. The proposed (zoning) amendment has no discernable negative impact on the public
       health, safety and welfare.
    3. The proposed (zoning) amendment does not create any nonconformities.
    4. The proposed rezone represents a continuation of a development pattern in this area that
       includes a mix of densities and dwelling types, with neighborhoods of exclusively larger
       lots bordering on or located near twin home and town home neighborhoods.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Magna Planning Commission recommend that the
Council approve the rezone of the subject parcel to Multi-Family Residential Zone (RM) with the
following zoning condition (zc):

    1. The allowed density shall not exceed 4 units on the subject ½ acre parcel.




                    [Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 5 of 9
              Attachment 1 - Location Map




[Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 6 of 9
  Attachment 2 - Conceptual Site Plan and Elevations

             (for illustration purposes only).

                     Illustrated Site Plan




                          Elevations




[Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 7 of 9
                    Project Perspective 1




                    Project Perspective 2




[Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 8 of 9
            Project in Neighborhood Context 1




            Project in Neighborhood Context 2




[Habitat for Humanity Rezone / REZ2024-001105 / September 12, 2024] | Page 9 of 9
