Meeting Body: Magna Planning                      BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Commission
                                     In response to citizen concerns about parking on streets, parking
Meeting Date: October 3 , 2024
                         rd
                                     on front lawns, and snow removal operations, Magna’s Planning
File Number & Project Type:          Staff, Code Enforcement Staff, and the Magna Precinct of the
OAM2024-001231- 2024 Magna           Unified Police Department have worked to update Titles 11, 12
Parking Revisions                    and 19 to ensure that city streets remain passable in all weather
Applicability: Single and Two-       conditions. The proposed amendments to Title 19 are intended
Family Zones Citywide                to create more opportunities for on premise parking while
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning      ensuring that front yards continue to project an attractive
Manager                              streetscape.
Applicant: Magna Staff               Utah, like much of the country, is in a housing crisis. The
Key Findings:                        combination of elevated housing prices and the shortage of
• On street parking must be          housing units have resulted in more people sharing the housing
  regulated on public streets to     that is available. In Magna this has resulted in more working age
  ensure that they are passable in   people sharing households. With more working age people living
  all weather conditions.            in a suburban environment that is not efficiently served by transit,
• Older neighborhoods in Magna
                                     this has resulted in more commuters per household than the
  were not designed with enough
                                     driveways in Magna’s older neighborhoods were designed to
  parking     to    accommodate
  today’s automobile ownership       accommodate. This is the root cause of the parking concerns that
  rates.                             the citizens have brought to the Council’s attention. Until the
• If well regulated, on premise      housing market sees increased availability of housing and an
  parking can be expanded            easing of housing prices, Magna is not going to see any significant
  without compromising the           reduction in the number of cars per dwelling. The challenge is to
  desire for an attractive street
                                     ensure that those cars can be accommodated without turning
  scape.
                                     front yards into parking lots or rendering the streets impassible
Staff Recommendation: The            due to parked cars, especially in inclement weather.
MSD Planning Staff recommend
that   the   Magna    Planning                           PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Commission recommend that the
Council approve the attached         Working with the Magna Precinct and Code Enforcement,
ordinance.                           Planning Staff have created an ordinance that:
Exhibits:                            - Allows parking on a gravel parking pad between the driveway
    A. Proposed Ordinance            and the nearest side lot line. This allows additional parking on a



                              [OAM2024-001231 / Magna Parking Amendments / October 3, 2024] | Page 1 of 2
        more affordable surface without significantly decreasing the landscaped area between
        a house and the street.

   -    With the exception of the gravel parking pad between the driveway and the nearest
        side lot line, requires hard surfaced front yard parking.

   -    Allows parking on a gravel parking pad in a side or rear yard when located behind a
        view obscuring fence or gate.

   -    Allows up to 60% of a front yard to be used for parking if the combined coverage area
        of all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways, paved walkways, patios,
        decks, and other structures, does not exceed 60% of the area of the lot. The municipal
        engineering division must approve site plans with more than 50% front yard parking.

   -    In order to better implement these changes and the parking related ordinances in
        general, the proposed ordinance defines the terms “Drive Approach”, “Driveway”,
        “Driveway, Cross Access”, “Driveway, Multifamily”, “Driveway, Private”, “Driveway
        Shared”, “Hard surface”, “Pavement”, and “Paved”.

   -    Clarifies that Private Roads are Private Streets.

   -    Expands the definition of “Street, Private” to limit the use of private streets to the
        owner or group of owners who share the use and maintenance obligations. This
        definition is more in line with the definition in Title 14.

                                 STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

   1. On street parking must be regulated on public streets to ensure that they are passable
      in all weather conditions.

   2. Older neighborhoods in Magna were not designed with enough parking to
      accommodate today’s automobile ownership rates.

   3. If well regulated, on premise parking can be expanded without compromising the
      desire for an attractive street scape.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Magna Planning Commission recommend that
the Council approve the attached ordinance.




                     [OAM2024-001231 / Magna Parking Amendments / October 3, 2024] | Page 2 of 2
                                   Proposed Ordinance


19.04.020 General Definitions.
“Drive Approach” means an area of the public right-of-way located between the roadway and
property adjacent to the public right-of-way that is intended to provide access for vehicles from
the roadway to the adjacent property.
“Driveway” means a path of ingress and egress constructed within and adjoining a roadway,
connecting the roadway with adjacent or nearby property in accordance with Magna Municipal
Code. A “driveway” is an unobstructed access from a public or private right of way to an adjacent
or nearby property that does not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian travel within the right of
way.
“Driveway, Cross Access” means a service drive providing vehicular access between two or more
contiguous sites, so the driver need not enter the public street system.
"Driveway, Multifamily" means a driveway providing access to more than four dwelling units.
“Driveway, Private” means a driveway limited to the use of the owner or a group of owners who
share the use and maintain the access and those having express or implied permission from the
owner or owners, but not by other persons.
“Driveway, Shared” means a driveway serving more than one lot.
“Hard surface” means any asphalt or concrete surface of an approved thickness, or other
approved surface, but excluding rock, gravel, grass, or dirt.
“Pavement” includes the paved portion of a street, including paved shoulders and on street
parking areas. “Pavement does not include curbs, gutters, park strips, sidewalks, trails, and
driveways.
“Paved” means ground covered with stone, brick, concrete, asphalt, or other approved surface,
installed over a compacted base course, making a permanent surface that is firm, smooth, and
level. A graded natural surface, or one covered with rolled stone or overlaid with compacted or
loose gravel is not considered a paved surface.
“Road, Private” means the same as “Street, Private”
“Street, Private” means an access way, other than a driveway, similar to and having substantially
the same or similar function as a public street, providing access to one or more properties, but
held in private ownership. A “private street” is limited to the use of the owner or group of owners
who share the use and maintain the street without the assistance of public entities. “Street,
Private” and “Road, Private” can be used interchangeably.
19.28.060 Lot Coverage
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structure and other structures, may cover
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures may cover more than twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the rear yard.
C. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways, paved
   walkways, patios, decks, and other structures, may not exceed 60% of the area of the
   lot.Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent
   (50%) of the yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes both the required
   setback area and any other yard area between the main building and the property boundary.
   Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent
   (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in
   width.


19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or
   right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.
   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth
      in Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
      driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the
      applicable provisions of this Title.
   There shall be a hard-surfaced driveway from the public or private road or drive to each
      required parking space (See Table 19.48.150). Each required parking space shall also be
      hard surfaced. The drive and parking surfaces shall consist of a permanent, durable, hard
      surface such as concrete (including permeable concrete), asphalt (including permeable
      asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. A pervious surface may be used, subject to
      applicable municipal ordinances and policies.
B. Except as provided in subsection C, Ppaved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not
   occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty
   feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) parking or
   driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.
C. Parking areas in the front yard may exceed 50% of the front yard area under the following
   conditions:
   1. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways,
      paved walkways, patios, decks, and other structures, may not exceed 60% of the area of
      the lot; and
   2. The parking areas in the front yard do not exceed 60% of the front yard area; and
   3. The municipal engineer verifies that the site plan as proposed will not adversely impact
      the municipal or local storm drain system; and
   4. A landscape planting area of at least 500 square feet is maintained in the front yard.
D.C. Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the
   front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in
   the front yard may be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
E. Driveway Surfacing. There shall be a hard-surfaced driveway from the public or private road
   or drive to each required parking space (See Table 19.48.150). Each required parking space
   shall also be hard surfaced except for parking pads as provided in this Subsection.
      1. The drive and parking surfaces shall consist of a permanent, durable, hard surface such
         as concrete, asphalt, brick, pavers, stone, or block.
      2. A pervious surface, including permeable concrete or permeable asphalt may be used,
         subject to applicable municipal ordinances and policies.
      3. A parking pad consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may be located between a
         paved driveway and the nearest side lot line in a front yard, provided the gravel parking
         pad is not within the clear view area of intersecting streets. Motor vehicles and recreational
         vehicles may be parked or stored on said gravel parking pad provided the parking pad is
         kept weed free. No other parking pad is permitted in the front yard area.
      4. Parking pads consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may also be located in a side
         yard or rear yard provided they are accessible by a driveway surfaced in accordance with
         this part. These parking pads must be located behind a view obscuring fence or gate and
         kept weed free.
D. Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any
   R-1 or R-2 zone shall:
      1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
         dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad
         which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area shall be kept weed free.
FE.      Commercial Vehicles. Commercial vehicles may not be parked or stored on residential
      property in an R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:
      1. Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully permitted
         construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are
         diligently pursued.
      2. One commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of the dwelling and screened
         from view from public streets or neighboring properties with an opaque fence that is at
         least six feet (6’) tall, provided it is parked on a paved surface. The commercial vehicle
         may not exceed Class 5 (two (2)-axle, six (6)-tire single unit trucks) in Federal Highway
         Administration vehicle classification.
      3. One commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side yard of a dwelling in the
         R-1 or R-2 Zones upon issuance of a permit by PDS, as long as all of the following criteria
         are met:
         a. No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property;
         b. The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call twenty-four (24) hours a day to
            use the vehicle in response to an emergency;
         c. The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface;
       d. The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over
          the street or sidewalk; and
       e. The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks)
          in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
GF.    Clear View Triangles. In accordance with Subsections 19.46.120 D and E, no vehicle may
   be parked in a manner that obstructs the clear view triangle of an intersecting street or a
   driveway.
