Meeting Body: Magna Planning                         BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Commission
                                        The ordinances concerning park strips, what a developer must
Meeting Date: January 9 , 2025
                          th
                                        build and what an adjoining land owner must maintain, are found
File Number & Project Type:             in a number of different parts of Magna’s Municipal Code. Title 14
OAM2024-001295-          2024           includes standards concerning sidewalks and park strips; Title 18
Magna Park Strip Amendments             includes requirements for the development of subdivision lots
Applicability: Citywide                 and the adjoining streetscape, including requirements for street
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning         lighting; and Title 19 includes landscaping requirements,
Manager                                 including specific standards for street trees and landscaping in
Applicant: Magna Staff
                                        park strips. Additionally, the adopted standards and specifications
                                        include standard drawings for street cross sections, the
Key Findings:
                                        construction of sidewalks, including pedestrian ramps, and street
• Magna City has an interest in         light design. The existing ordinances generally allow Staff to
  ensuring that streetscapes are
                                        require developers to construct street improvements that include,
  constructed in a uniform and
                                        4’ sidewalks, 5’ park strips, 1 street tree for every 25’ of street
  aesthetically pleasing manner to
  facilitate       long      term       frontage, and street lights. Where double fronting lots rear on
  maintenance.                          collector or arterial lots a developer must install a decorative
• It is in the City’s interest to       masonry wall to separate the home from the major street. Park
  ensure that walls, street trees       strips are generally not allowed to be paved unless they are
  and stamped concrete are              adjacent to a major street or less than 5’ wide. Park strips must
  installed so that the City may
                                        include at least 30% live plant material in addition to the street
  maintain these streetscapes in a
                                        trees and turf is prohibited in park strips less than 8’ wide. Where
  cost effective manner.
                                        paving of a park strip is allowed, it must be stamped and colored,
Staff Recommendation: The
                                        red with a brick pattern. Alternative stamp templates and colors
MSD Planning Staff recommend
that   the   Magna    Planning
                                        are allowed upon request.
Commission recommend that the                               PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Council approve the attached
ordinance.                              Based on conversations with the Mayor and Engineering Staff,
Exhibits:                               Planning Staff have created an ordinance that:

    A. Proposed Ordinance               - Ties the separate portions of the various streetscape related
                                        ordinances together with references to help a developer or citizen
                                        more easily find the requirements for park strips;




                               [OAM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / January 9, 2025] | Page 1 of 3
   -    Requires a 5’ wide sidewalk and a 5’ wide park strip to encourage and better facilitate
        pedestrian use and the installation of street trees;

   -    Requires developers to install decorative masonry fences on corner lots where the side
        yard, corner lot is adjacent to a collector or arterial. This requirement it specifically
        limited in length to ensure that the clear view triangle remains unobstructed;

   -    Clarifies that pavement in the park strip is prohibited except in certain limited
        circumstances, including when an existing park strip is less than 5’ wide;

   -    Requires that when pavement is installed in a park strip, it must be with stamped
        concrete, using an Ashlar Slate pattern with a grey/brown color;

   -    Allows the use of grey or brown bricks or paving stones in some circumstances,
        including residential applications;

   -    Allows landscaping of park strips along collector of arterial streets where a masonry
        wall has been installed only when a maintenance agreement between Magna and a
        homeowners association or special service district is in place; and

   -    Requires tree grates to be installed along with the required street trees where the park
        strip is otherwise paved.

                                 STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

   1. Magna City has an interest in ensuring that streetscapes are constructed in a uniform
      and aesthetically pleasing manner to facilitate long term maintenance;

   2. Because they are not easily accessed by adjacent property owners, park strips and
      walls/fences along arterial and collector streets are difficult for those property owners
      to maintain. It is in the City’s interest to ensure that walls, street trees and stamped
      concrete are installed so that the City may maintain these streetscapes in a cost
      effective manner; and

   3. Tree grates help to protect street trees when located in areas where impervious
      surfaces make up the majority of the street scape.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Magna Planning Commission recommend that
the Council approve the attached ordinance. Staff also recommend that the Planning
Commission recommend that the Council consider how street trees along collector and
arterial roads will be maintained, especially when the street trees are not yet established.


                    [OAM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / January 9, 2025] | Page 2 of 3
[OAM2024-001295 / Magna Park Strip Amendments / January 9, 2025] | Page 3 of 3
14.12.060 Sidewalks

A. Sidewalks shall be located as far as practical from travel lanes. As the minimum
   standard, concrete sidewalks shall be five four feet (5’) in width with a five foot (5’)
   parkutility strip between the roadway edge of sidewalk and back of curb.
B. A five-foot (5’) sidewalk will be allowed required integral with the back of curb where
   exceptional topographic conditions exist. Where integral sidewalk is permitted, the
   right-of-way may be reduced accordingly.
C. Park strips shall be landscaped and maintained in accordance with Section 19.50.060.
D. Double Fronting Lots. Where lots rear on a public street, the developer must install a
   decorative masonry wall along the right of way, at the property side of the sidewalk,
   subject to Sections 18.14.170 and 19.50.060. When properties are adjacent, but do
   not access or front on public right-of-way, a stamped brick pavement in the utility strip
   or other suitable approved finishing material shall be required to reduce maintenance
   in these areas unless a homeowners association or special service district is provided.
E. In areas zoned R-1-43 and other developments which have an average minimum lot
   area of one acreone-acre, aesthetic alternatives may be approved in lieu of standard
   concrete, except areas along collectors and arterials. The public works
   engineerMunicipal Engineering Division shall review and approve all design and
   geometric standards for such requests.
18.12.050 Lots

E. Double Fronting Lots.
   1. Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shall be prohibited, except where they
      may be essential to provide separation of single-family or duplex residential
      development from fronting on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific
      disadvantage or hardship imposed by topography or other factors. Such double
      frontage lots allowed within the municipality shall be constructed to the adopted
      engineering design standards.
   2. Where lots have double frontage, are not screened, and/or are provided access
      directly onto an arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each
      street side.
   3. Lots in single-family or duplex residential subdivisions and lots measuring less than
      one hundred feet (100’) wide and located within multifamily residential subdivisions
      may abut a street on both the front and rear boundaries, but only under the
      following conditions:
          a. One lot boundary must abut a collector street, arterial street or freeway;
          b. No access to the abutting arterial street or freeway. The administrative land
             use authority may require a reservation, easement or other condition of
             approval to ensure that no right of access is given; and
          c. The administrative land use authority may require that a parkway at the rear
             of a double frontage lot be landscaped, or other aesthetic treatment be
             provided by the subdivider, subject to the approval of the Planning
             Commission to provide a visual and physical separation between the
             development and the street.

   4. Double fronting lots must include a park strip in accordance with Sections
      14.12.060 and 19.50.060(E)(3), and a decorative masonry wall in accordance with
      Section 18.14.170. When a street facing side yard, corner lot is adjacent to
      collector or arterial streets, the street landscaped park strip and decorative
      masonry wall shall be extended along the side yard, corner lot frontage subject to
      Subsection 19.46.120.(E) Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. The Municipal
      Engineering Division may permit an extended clear view area subject to adopted
      municipal standards.
19.50.060 Landscaping of Park Strips

A. Landscaping Responsibility. Although park strips are part of the public right-of-way, it
   is the responsibility of the property owner immediately adjacent to a park strip to
   provide basic maintenance of that park strip. This responsibility includes the
   establishment and maintenance of landscaping that conforms to these regulations.
B. Irrigation. It is the responsibility of the adjacent property owner to provide regular and
   adequate watering to ensure the health of park strip landscaping. If the adjacent
   property is irrigated, the irrigation system shall be extended to include the park strip,
   exceptions must be approved by the City Engineer.
C. Applicability.
   1. Any new development shall provide park strip landscaping in conformance with
      these regulations.
   2. Existing development is not required to provide park strip landscaping, except
      where the provisions of Section 19.50.020 apply.
   3. Any new park strip landscaping done in conjunction with existing development
      shall conform to these regulations.
D. Landscape Plans. For all new development, park strips shall be shown on all
   landscape plans for approval.
E. Pavement in Park Strips. Pavement within a park strip is prohibited, except as follows:
1. A paved pedestrian walkway up to five feet (5’) in width is allowed across any park
   strip.
2. Hardscape or an alternative form of landscaping is allowed in existing park strips
   of less than five feet (5’) in depth, as measured from the back of curb to the
   sidewalk, upon approval of the Municipal Engineer. Hardscape may consist of
   permeable or impermeable concrete stamped with an Ashlar Slate pattern with a
   grey or brown color. Grey or brown bricks or paving stones may also be used.
3. Paving in park strips with a depth, as measured from the back of curb to the
   sidewalk, of five feet (5’) or greater is only allowed when the maintenance of
   landscaping is impractical due to site topography, lack of direct access, traffic
   patterns, or other such factors and is subject to approval by the Director or
   Designee.
4. The pavement allowed in Subsections 19.50.060.E. 2 and 3 shall consist of
   decorative stamped concrete, removable brick, or paving stones.

3. Double Fronting Lots and Side Yard, Corner Lots. Where a street facing side or
   rear yard is adjacent to a collector or arterial street, and no access is permitted to
   the collector or arterial street, the following standards shall apply:

   a. A park strip must be installed that is at least five feet (5’) wide between the
      roadway edge of sidewalk and back of curb.

   b. Street trees shall be installed in accordance with subsection 19.50.060.(G).

   c. A decorative masonry wall shall be installed along the entire frontage of the
      collector or arterial subject to Section 18.14.170. Fencing Requirements, and
      Subsection 19.46.120.(E) Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. The
      Municipal Engineering Division may permit an extended clear view area subject
      to APWA and adopted municipal standards.

   c. Live plant material other than the required street trees is appropriate only where
      a homeowner’s association or special service district will provide adequate
      maintenance. A maintenance agreement must be entered into with Magna prior
      to the installation of the park strip landscaping. Turf may only be installed in a
      part strip that is at least eight feet (8’) wide.

   d. Unless live plant material is installed in accordance with Subsection
      19.50.060.(3)(c)., stamped concrete shall be installed within a park strip. The
      stamped concrete must consist of an Ashlar Slate stamp pattern and
      grey/brown color.
       e. Tree grates (wells) with adequate dimensions to accommodate the tree species
          are required for trees in which the surrounding park strip consists of an
          impervious surface.

F. Plants.
   1. The type of plants used in park strip landscaping shall be at the discretion of the
      adjacent property owner, subject to these regulations. The use of water efficient
      standards as outlined in Section 19.50.030, Landscape Irrigation and Efficient
      Water Usage, is required.
   2. Lawn is prohibited in areas less than eight feet (8’) wide. The use of drought-
      tolerant plants is encouraged.
   3. No less than thirty percent (30%) of the ground area of a park strip may be covered
      by plants, not including tree canopies. These plants may include evergreen or
      deciduous groundcover, herbaceous plants, or shrubs that do not exceed a mature
      height of eighteen inches (18”). No plant may create a visibility obstruction for
      motorists.
G. Trees in Park Strips. One (1)deciduous tree shall be planted in the park strip area for
   every twenty-five (25) linear feet of lot frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.
   Park strips less than five feet (5’) wide as measured from curb to sidewalk are not
   subject to this requirement. All trees shall be planted in the center of the width of the
   park strip.
   1. Trees Prohibited for Park Strips. Any tree or shrub that could conflict with the safe
      use of the right-of-way is prohibited in the park strip. Some of these trees include:
       a. Box Elder – Acer negundo
       b. Silver Maple – Acer saccharinum
       c. Tree of Heaven – Ailantus altissima
       d. River Birch – Betula nigra
       e. Russian Olive – Eleagnus angustifolia
       f. Poplar (all, includes Cottonwood) – Populus spp.
       g. Quaking Aspen – Populus tremuloides
       h. Flowering Plum – Prunus cerasifera
       i.   Pin Oak – Quercus palustris
       j.   Idaho Locust – Robina x ambigua ‘Idahoensis’
       k. Willow (all) – Salix spp.
   l.   Siberian Elm – Ulmus pumila
2. Trees Recommended for Park Strips.
   a. Paperbark Maple – Acer Griseum
   b. Tatarian Maple, single stemmed – Acer tatrium
   c. Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
   d. Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn – Crataegus crus-galli var. inermis
   e. La Valle Hawthorn – Crataegus x lavallei ‘Carrier’
   f. Amur Maakia – Maackia amurensis
   g. Fruitless Crabapple – Malus, ioensis ‘Klem’s Improved’ or ‘Spring Snow’, etc.
   h. Eastern redbud – Cercis Canadensis
   i.   Blackhaw Viburnum – Viburnum prunifolium
3. Trees Appropriate for Use Under Powerlines.
   a. Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
   b. Seedless Ash – Fraxinum pennsylvatica lanceolata ‘Marshall Seedless’
   c. Thornless Honeylocust – Gleditsia tricanthos var. inermis ‘Imperial’
   d. Goldenrain Tree – Koelreuteria paniculate
   e. Crabapple spp – Malus ioensis ‘Spring Snow,’ ‘Snow Drift,’ ‘Centurion,’ and
      ‘Zumi’
   f. Callery Pear – Pyrus calleriana ‘Aristocrat,’ Chanticleer’,’ and ‘Redspire’
   g. Japanese Pagodatree – Sophora japonica ‘Regent’
   h. Wireless zelkova serrulata
4. Other species of trees may be used, subject to review and approval by the Director
   or Designee.
