                                            Files # REZ2025-001360

                                            Rezone Summary

Public Body: Magna Planning Commission
Meeting Date: May 8, 2025
Parcel ID: 14-29-101-023-0000
Current Zone: C-3
Property Address: 2734 S 8750 W
Request: Rezone from C-3 to C-1
Applicant Name: James Schouten
MSD Planner: Justin Smith
Staff Recommendation: Recommendation of Approval to the City Council


PROJECT SUMMARY

The applicant, James Schouten, is seeking a rezone from C-3 to C-1 so that he can use the property for auto
detailing. The property owner, Michael Frank, is aware of the rezone and has provided and signed and notarized
affidavit stating that he is ok with the rezone application.

SITE & ZONE DESCRIPTION

This property is located on 8750 W, a small side street along Magna Main Street. 8750 W is a short gravel road
that has a home and then a shop or garage style building that would be used for the proposed auto detailing
business. This building was originally built as a storage building and went through the land use process in 2014.
        Request: Rezone                                                            File #: REZ2025-001360




ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION

The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and reviewing agencies have reviewed the application and have
not identified any issues with the rezone. No other departments or reviewing agencies have pointed out any issues
of concern and have given an “ok” to the conceptual review.




Rezone Summary                                                                                        Page 2 of 4
      Request: Rezone                                                               File #: REZ2025-001360
PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

General Plan Considerations

The Magna General Plan shows that this property is located within the Historic Neighborhoods Area of Magna.
This area includes the original Magna Town area and the development nearby.

Review Guidelines

There are seven guidelines set in Chapter 19.16.080. The first guideline is whether the proposed zoning
amendment is compatible with the Adopted General Plan. The Adopted General Plan does not call for any
specific uses and instead calls for neighborhood stabilization and historic preservation in this area of Magna. The
zone change would be beneficial to the property as it is currently zoned C-3, which is a “legacy zone” with very
few of it’s previously allowed permitted and conditional uses remaining after the code update in 2023. The new
and updated C-3 zone no longer allows auto detailing as a permitted or conditional use. The C-1 zone allows for
minor vehicle and equipment repair which includes detailing.

The second guideline is whether it promotes the public health, safety and welfare of the community. There have
not been any comments from reviewing agencies that are conceptually opposed to the rezone or have
presented any concerns regarding the safety, health, or welfare. The applicant has provided a letter from the
Salt Lake County Health Department that states that the applicant has provided a spill prevention plan that
meets the Salt Lake County Health Department requirements.

The third guideline is whether the proposed zone is a more suitable zone than the current classification. The C-1
zone is more compatible than the C-3 zone because the C-3 zone has vastly limited permitted and conditional
uses. The C-1 zone is also more compatible than the C-2 zone which has a 3 acre minimum project area
requirement that was added in 2023.

The fourth guideline is whether the proposed amendment is compatible with the intent and general purposes of
Magna’s land use ordinances. This rezone application is compatible with the purposes of the land use
ordinances. Purpose G is “fostering agriculture and economic development,” which aligns with this rezone as
the applicant is looking to rezone it to conduct business, whereas it was originally built for personal storage
only.

The next guideline is whether the rezone creates a significant number of nonconformities. This rezone would
create a nonconforming structure due the proximity of the building to the side and rear property lines. This
building went through the land use process and met the requirements of the C-3 zone at the time of
development. The C-1 zone does list pre-existing structures as being permitted, but this would restrict any type
of expansion to the west side and the rear of the building. The front and the east side may also be limited by
the C-1 zone setbacks.

The Magna Planning Commission makes recommendations to the Magna City Council for rezones. The Magna
City Council is the decision-making body for rezones and will weigh the recommendation of the Planning
Commission.

Based on the above analysis, MSD staff has found that the proposal is consistent with the surrounding land uses
as well as the general plan. Full compliance with required ordinances and policies will be verified through the
subsequent technical review process before the issuance of the Land Use permit, and license inspection process.




Rezone Summary                                                                                          Page 3 of 4
        Request: Rezone          File #: REZ2025-001360
ATTACHMENTS:
   A. Site Plan
   B. Legal Description
   C. Property Owner Affidavit




Rezone Summary                                     Page 4 of 4
                                   Planning Commission Staff Report
