Meeting Body: Magna Planning
Commission
                                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Meeting Date: September 11th, 2025
                                          The proposed project is the creation of the Magna Historic
File Number & Project Type:
                                          District Parking Overlay Zone, a new zoning tool intended to
OAM2025-001481 – Planning staff is
                                          guide parking supply, design, and management within Magna’s
seeking a recommendation regarding
                                          Downtown Historic District.
the adoption of Chapter 19.72 Magna
Historic District Parking Overlay Zone    The Overlay will establish context-sensitive parking standards
as part of the Magna City zoning          that better reflect the unique conditions of the historic town
ordinance. The purpose of the overlay     center, where traditional main street development patterns,
is to consider and plan for parking       older building stock, and walkable block structures differ from
within the Historic Magna Main Street     suburban commercial areas.
district while supporting the integrity
                                          Key features of the Overlay include:
and character of the area.
                                          • Submittal of a Parking Management Plan for any
Planner: Matthew Starley, Long
                                          development or redevelopment subject to the overlay.
Range Planner II
                                          • Adjusted minimum parking ratios for commercial and
Applicability: Greater Magna Historic     residential uses.
Commercial District Area                  • Allowance for shared and off-site parking arrangements
Key Findings: Magna’s Downtown            within 800 feet of a property.
Historic District is experiencing         • Requirements for site design standards that mitigate the
renewed development interest              visual and functional impacts of parking lots,
through façade improvements, new          • Emphasis on utilizing the district’s historic alleys as access
businesses, and planned                   points and cross-access between parking areas.
redevelopment projects. Existing
                                          This zoning tool is intended to balance the needs of residents,
zoning regulations do not adequately
                                          businesses, and visitors while protecting the historic character,
address the unique parking needs of
                                          pedestrian orientation, and economic vitality of Magna’s Main
a walkable, historic main street
                                          Street.
environment.

The Parking Overlay Zone is intended
to provide context-sensitive parking
standards tailored to Magna’s historic
                                          BACKGROUND/ISSUES TO CONSIDER
downtown.                                 Historic Downtown Context
Staff Recommendation: Staff            Magna’s Historic District is characterized by a traditional main
recommends that the Planning           street layout with narrow lots intended to be covered nearly
Commission review and forward a        entirely with a building footprint. Existing historic buildings
recommendation to the Magna Metro      were constructed without on-site parking, and narrow rights-
Township Council to adopt Chapter      of-way at the rear of the sites offered by alleyways. These
19.72: Magna Historic District Parking
Overlay Zone into the Magna
Municipal Code.
              Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001481 Date:09/09/2025 | Page 1 of 5
Exhibits:

Draft Ordinance – Title 19.72 Historic
       conditions make it difficult for potential property owners to meet conventional off-
       street parking requirements.
Parking Supply Challenges
Existing zone standards require more parking than can realistically be provided on Historic
District lots without the purchase of additional adjacent lots or by compromising the pedestrian
character of the area. Parking that is available in the area, is often underutilized due to a lack of
clearly articulated expectations for visitors. Shared parking opportunities are underutilized due
to a lack of formal mechanisms in the zoning code.
Development Pressure & Investment
Redevelopment interest is increasing as new businesses, façade improvements, and mixed-use
projects are proposed in the downtown area. Without an overlay, strict adherence to current
parking ratios has discouraged adaptive reuse of historic buildings and new development on
unbuilt lots, limiting reinvestment in the district.
Design & Character Considerations
Large surface parking lots disrupt the walkable character of the main street and detract from
the historic setting. Improved design standards, tailored for the unique conditions of the
Historic District, are needed to mitigate the visual and functional impacts of parking lots
through placement and access considerations.
Policy Alignment
The Overlay supports Magna’s General Plan and the proposed Downtown Historic District Plan,
both of which prioritize walkability, historic preservation, and economic revitalization. The
standards are designed to strike a balance between ensuring adequate parking and supporting
a pedestrian-oriented environment.



                                         ANALYSIS
Magna staff have reviewed the proposed Magna Historic District Parking Overlay Zone in the
context of existing conditions, community goals, and anticipated development trends. Several
key findings emerge:
Balance Between Supply and Demand
The proposed parking ratios better reflect the actual demand in a mixed-use, historic main
street environment, where walking, biking, transit, and on-street parking all contribute to
mobility. By simplifying minimum requirements, the Overlay removes a significant barrier to
adaptive reuse of historic buildings and new infill projects while allowing for a diverse mix of
business types within the district.
Preservation of Historic and Pedestrian Character
Locating parking to the side or rear of buildings and pushing parking away from the existing
build-to lines ensure that as parking opportunities expand, the visual character of Main Street is

       Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001481          Date:09/09/2025 | Page 2 of 5
preserved. These provisions help Magna avoid the suburban pattern of large front parking lots
that could erode the downtown character.
Flexibility and Economic Development
The Overlay introduces mechanisms such as shared parking and off-site parking allowances
within 800 feet, providing flexibility for property owners and developers. This flexibility
encourages reinvestment and supports a variety of land uses, including small businesses,
restaurants, and mixed-use housing, without imposing undue cost burdens. This also provides
existing property owners with an opportunity to benefit from additional parking opportunities
they currently manage that may be chronically underutilized.
Integration with Public Infrastructure
Differentiation of the role of on-street parking and off-street parking as part of the supply aligns
with the role of Main Street’s public realm in supporting downtown businesses. The Overlay
anticipates the need for future coordinated management strategies such as time limits,
enforcement, and metering to ensure turnover and availability of prime parking spaces.
Policy Consistency
The Overlay directly advances the Magna General Plan (2021) goals of enhancing downtown
vitality, promoting mixed-use redevelopment, and creating a pedestrian-friendly environment.
It also supports the goals articulated in the proposed Historic District Area Plan by providing
regulatory tools that maintain historic scale and rhythm while accommodating contemporary
land use needs.
Anticipated Outcomes
Staff anticipates the Overlay will facilitate redevelopment of underutilized parcels, protect the
pedestrian character of the Historic District, and improve the overall efficiency of parking
supply. These outcomes will contribute to long-term economic vitality and support Magna’s
Historic district identity as a historic, walkable community.



                     GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
This amendment supports the Magna General Plan (adopted March 23, 2021). It aligns with the
following goals from the Future Land Use Concept Map Designations chapter:
   •   Review current parking requirements to ensure the highest and best use of land within
       commercial nodes.
   •   Changes to a historic structure in a Historic District must undergo a review process to
       ensure the proposed changes are compatible with the site’s historic architecture and
       must retain the “character defining” elements of the property which reflect materials in
       the surrounding neighborhood. Parking is limited within the historic areas, which
       should be considered with new development.
STRATEGY 2: Create additional public parking opportunities near Magna Main Street.


       Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001481         Date:09/09/2025 | Page 3 of 5
   •   ACTION: Prioritize projects and policies that improve the parking experience near
       Magna Main Street.
   •   ACTION: Conduct parking inventory and utilization analysis to identify the quantity of
       currently available on-street and off-street parking and the demand for that parking
       supply.
   •   ACTION: Develop strategies for future growth impacts on parking capacities and
       regularly monitor parking occupancy and other factors by periodic parking studies.
STRATEGY 6: Encourage development and redevelopment of Magna Main Street to strengthen
its role as a historical center and urban district through expansion of the RDA and addition of
“form based” regulations.
   •   ACTION: Adopt zoning that addresses building form, setbacks, parking, landscaping,
       block structure, uses, and other components within Main Street to encourage
       appropriate redevelopment/development patterns to protect the historic character of
       Main Street while protecting property rights to encourage economic development.
   •   ACTION: Develop an incentive and reinvestment policy to encourage private investment
       of existing buildings and businesses.
   •   Create and adopt an Illustrative Plan, Regulating Plan, Building Form Standards and
       Public Space Standards for Magna Main Street
   •   Adopt zoning that addresses building form, setbacks, parking, landscaping, block
       structure, uses, and other components within Main Street to encourage appropriate
       redevelopment/development patterns to protect the historic character of Main Street
       while protecting property rights to encourage economic development.
The Overlay encourages reinvestment in the Historic District by reducing parking barriers and
reinforcing a pedestrian-oriented urban form. By allowing flexible parking arrangements and
recognizing shared/on-street supply, the Overlay creates conditions for small businesses and
adaptive reuse to thrive. The Overlay balances parking needs with support for walking, biking,
and transit, consistent with the multimodal vision of the General Plan. By tailoring residential
parking standards and enabling shared supply, the Overlay removes barriers to mixed-use and
missing-middle housing opportunities in the Historic District. Design standards for parking
placement, landscaping, and build-to lines reinforce the visual integrity of Main Street and
ensure that future development contributes to a cohesive and attractive public realm.



                                    PUBLIC INPUT
Planning Staff has not received any comments from the public as of the completion of this staff
report. Any comments that are received will be forwarded to the Magna City Planning
Commission for review and will be summarized on September 11, 2025.




       Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001481        Date:09/09/2025 | Page 4 of 5
                 PLANNING COMMISSION OPTIONS:
As a recommending body to the Council for zoning map amendments and text changes, the
Planning Commission has the following options:
   1. Approval: The Planning Commission recommends approval of application OAM2025-
      001481 to amend Title 19 of the Magna City code.
   2. Approval with changes: The Planning Commission recommends approval of application
      OAM2025-001481 to amend Title 19 of the Magna City code with the following changes:
   3. Denial: Having considered the Guidelines for Zoning Text Amendments contained in
      Chapter 19.72 of the Magna City zoning ordinance, the Planning Commission
      recommends denial of application OAM2025-001481 to amend Title 19 of the Magna
      City code.


                           STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff finds that the proposed Magna Historic District Parking Overlay Zone:
   •   Provides parking standards that are better aligned with the unique historic and walkable
       character of Downtown Magna;
   •   Removes regulatory barriers that have historically limited reinvestment and adaptive
       reuse of existing buildings;
   •   Establishes design standards that protect and enhance the pedestrian-oriented
       streetscape; and
   •   Advances multiple goals and policies of the Magna General Plan, the proposed Downtown
       Historic District Plan, and other adopted community plans.
Recommendation:
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the
Magna Metro Township Council for adoption of Title 19.72: Magna Historic District Parking
Overlay Zone as presented, with a recommended overlay zone area selection, in this report and
accompanying ordinance.




       Ordinance amendment application number: OAM2025-001481       Date:09/09/2025 | Page 5 of 5
Magna Historic District Parking Overlay
Zone
Draft Ordinance language

Table of Contents
  19:72:010 Purpose .............................................................................................1
  19:72:020 Applicability........................................................................................2
  19:72:030 Definitions ..........................................................................................2
  19:72:040 Minimum Parking Requirements .............................................................2
  19:72:050 Parking Management Plan .....................................................................2
  19:72:060 Location of Parking Spaces and Associated Use Expectations .....................3
  19:72:070 Credit for On-Street Parking Improvements ..............................................4
  19:72:080 Shared Parking ....................................................................................4
  19:72:090 Public Parking Facilities ........................................................................5
  19:72:100 Development Standards for Parking Areas ...............................................5
  19:72:110 Service and Delivery Access ..................................................................6




19:72 Magna Historic District Parking Overlay Zone

19:72:010 Purpose
The purpose of the Magna Historic District Parking Overlay Zone is to:

   A. Ensure an appropriate level of vehicular parking, loading, and storage to support a
      variety of land uses within the Downtown Historic District;
   B. Mitigate the visual and functional impacts of surface parking on adjacent land uses
      and the public realm through appropriate site design standards; and
   C. Support the walkable, pedestrian-oriented character, and economic vitality of
      Magna’s Historic District.



                                                                                                      1|P a g e
19:72:020 Applicability
The standards of this section apply to all properties located within the boundaries of the
Magna Historic Downtown Parking Overlay Zone as designated on the official zoning map.



19:72:030 Definitions
As used in this Section:

Parking, Long-Term: Parking intended for use by residents, employees, or others, for a
duration exceeding four (4) continuous hours.

Parking, Short-Term: Parking intended for customers or visitors, with high turnover and
durations less than four (4) hours.

Parking, Shared: Off-street parking used jointly by multiple uses or properties through a
formal agreement approved by the City.



19:72:040 Minimum Parking Requirements
   A. Retail and Non-Residential Uses: A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces
      shall be provided per one thousand (1,000) square feet of leasable or saleable
      building area.

   B. Residential Uses: A minimum of one (1) off-street parking space shall be provided
      per bedroom, up to a maximum of two (2) spaces per dwelling unit.



19:72:050 Parking Management Plan
   A. A Parking Management Plan shall be submitted for any development or
      redevelopment subject to this Overlay Zone. The Plan shall demonstrate the
      project’s ability to provide adequate parking for:
         1. Residential Uses.
         2. Retail and Non-Residential Uses.
         3. Service and delivery needs.
   B. The Parking Management Plan shall include:
         1. a site plan identifying:
                 a. all proposed parking spaces with dimensions, access aisles,
                      entrances, and loading zones;

                                                                                  2|P a g e
               b. The location and terms of any off-site parking;
               c. service and delivery access location
               d. alley or side street utilization
               e. screening and impact mitigation
               f. Identification and documentation of parking acquired through lease,
                   covenant, or arrangement.
               g. Identification of shared parking expectations;
               h. Evidence of compliance with ADA parking standards.
  C. The Director shall review and approve the Parking Management Plan prior to
     issuance of a land use or building permit.



19:72:060 Location of Parking Spaces and Associated Use Expectations
     A. On-Site Parking:
           1. May be used to satisfy residential and non-residential parking
               requirements.
     B. Off-Site Parking:
           1. May be used to satisfy residential and non-residential parking
               requirements if:
                   a. The closest edge of the off-site parking area is located no more
                       than 800 linear feet from the main entrance of the associated use;
                       and
                   b. The parking is secured by lease or recorded covenant; and
                          i. If secured by lease, the agreement must have a minimum
                             termination notice of ninety (90) days.
                   c. Approved as part of the Parking Management Plan by the Director.
     C. On-Street Parking
           1. On-street parking is intended to serve customers, visitors, and other
               short-term users. They are not intended to satisfy long-term or employee
               parking needs.
           2. Existing on-street spaces may not be used to satisfy minimum parking
               requirements for residential units.
           3. Long-term vehicle parking and storage within on-street spaces is
               prohibited.
                   a. The City may establish time limits, metering, or other enforcement
                       mechanisms to preserve availability and turnover.



                                                                               3|P a g e
19:72:070 Credit for On-Street Parking Improvements
   A. On-street parking spaces that are newly created or substantially improved as part of
      a development project may be credited toward the non-residential parking
      requirements of that project, subject to the following conditions:
          1. The on-street parking spaces are located directly adjacent to the
              development site, within the public right-of-way;
          2. The spaces are designed, constructed, or reconstructed by the developer in
              accordance with City standards;
          3. Improved spaces have not been previously restricted or designated for time-
              limited, metered, or short-term parking use;
   B. All credited spaces must be shown on the Parking Management Plan and approved
      by the Director.
   C. The City shall retain ownership and full authority to modify, relocate, or remove any
      on-street parking space located within the public right-of-way.



19:72:080 Shared Parking
   A. Shared parking is defined as an arrangement in which two (2) or more uses with
      differing peak parking demand periods use the same off-street parking spaces.
   B. A Shared Parking Plan may be approved by the Director as part of the Parking
      Management Plan if the applicant demonstrates that the uses have non-overlapping
      parking demand periods.
   C. The shared parking analysis shall use the following guidance table unless the
      applicant submits an alternative analysis approved by the Director:
   D. Shared Parking Demand Ratios Reference Table
      (Table 19.48.070)

                     Table 19.48.070: Guidance for the Determination of Shared Parking Requirements.
                                               Weekdays                                       Weekends
General Land Use Category
                               12 AM – 7AM    7 AM – 6 PM    6 PM – 12 AM    12 AM – 7AM     7 AM – 6 PM   6 PM – 12 AM
Office                             5%            100%             5%              0%             5%            0%
Industrial                        75%            100%            75%             75%            100%          75%

Retail                             5%            100%            75%              5%            100%          60%
Restaurant                        25%             70%            100%            30%            75%           100%
Lodging                           100%            55%            100%           100%            55%           100%
Theater /
                                   5%             20%            100%             5%            50%           100%
Entertainment
Conference Rooms /                 0%            100%            100%             0%            100%          100%


                                                                                                              4|P a g e
Reception Venue

Place of Worship         0%         30%        50%         0%        100%        65%
Institutional            5%         100%       20%         5%        100%        10%
Residential              100%       60%        95%        100%        75%        90%




   E. A change in use that disrupts or invalidates the shared parking arrangement shall
      require revised parking analysis and approval by the Director.



19:72:090 Public Parking Facilities
   A. Public parking lots may be used to satisfy minimum parking requirements only if:
         1. The public parking facility is within 800 feet of the subject property;
         2. No more than ten percent (10%) of the total public parking capacity is
             allocated to the subject property (or as otherwise determined by the City);
         3. The use complies with shared parking requirements;
         4. A Parking Management Agreement is approved by the Director.
   B. Public parking may not be used to satisfy residential or employee parking
      requirements, except with Director approval.



19:72:100 Development Standards for Parking Areas
   A. ADA Compliance.
         1. All required parking must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
            (ADA).
   B. Frontage Setback.
         1. Off-street surface parking shall be set back a minimum of forty (40) feet from
            the build-to line along Magna Main Street.
   C. Access.
         1. Cross-access between parking areas on adjoining lots is required .
         2. Alley access shall be prioritized where alleys exist or can reasonably be
            constructed.
         3. Where alley access exists, it shall be the exclusive vehicular access point for
            off-street parking.




                                                                                 5|P a g e
19:72:110 Service and Delivery Access
  A. Prohibited Frontage. Service, loading, unloading, and delivery activities shall not
     occur from Magna Main Street or its sidewalks. No loading or service vehicle may
     stop, park, or stage along Magna Main Street for purposes of loading or unloading
     goods, materials, equipment, or refuse.
  B. Access Location. All service and delivery access shall be located to the rear or side
     of the property and accessed via an alley, side street, or rear drive aisle, where
     available.
  C. Design Requirements. Site plans shall demonstrate that adequate space is
     provided for service and delivery functions without interfering with pedestrian areas,
     customer parking, or public rights-of-way.
  D. Exceptions. The Director may grant a limited exception for temporary service or
     delivery access on Magna Main Street only when:

         1. No reasonable alternative access exists; or

         2. The service activity occurs outside of hours of typical district business
            activity; and

         3. The applicant has submitted a delivery and service plan approved by the
            Director.




                                                                                 6|P a g e
