                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        slco.org/development-services




                                                   File # 30836


           Conditional Use Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Planning Commission                       Meeting Date: January 2019
Parcel ID’s: 1421151010                                      Zone: M-2
Property Address: 7944 W U-201 HWY
Request: Contractors Storage Yard

Planner: Jim Nakamura
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval
Applicant Name: Elaine George



                                        PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is requesting Conditional Use approval for a Contractor Storage yard on the subject property.



                           SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
        Request: Conditional Use                                                 File #: 30836


                                    GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS


                                 LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS M-2 zone
         Requirement                       Standard                           Proposed                 Compliance Verified
  Height                         None                            n/a                             Yes
  Front Yard Setback             None                            n/a                             Yes
  Side Yard Setback              None                            n/a                             Yes
  Rear Yard Setback              None                            n/a                             Yes
  Lot Width                      None                            330 feet +/-                    Yes
                                 None, Lots greater than 1
  Lot Area                       acre must follow                7.85 acres                      Yes
                                 Conditional Use procedures.
  Parking                        n/a                             None                            Yes
                                 No more than 80% coverage
  Lot Coverage                                                   None                            Yes
                                 with buildings or structures

  Compatibility with existing buildings in terms of size, scale and height.                      n/a
  Compliance with Landscaping Requirements Verified.                                             No
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                              n/a




                                         NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
No response has been received as of the writing of this report.



                                     REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE

AGENCY: Grading                                            DATE: 12.19.18
RECOMMENDATON: Revisions Required – additional items required

Need to submit site grading and drainage plans of how they will contain their drainage.
No Wetlands or Geotechnical Studies required at this time of parking. If buildings are constructed you additional
review is required.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                             Page 2 of 3
        Request: Conditional Use                                          File #: 30836


                                       PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.84.060 - Standards for approval.
Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be found to conform to the
following standards:

    A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance,
       including parking, building setbacks, and building height.
    B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances.
    C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard due to poor site
       design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system which exceed the amounts called for
       under the county transportation master plan.
    D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the safety of persons who
       will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious threat to the safety of residents or
       properties in the vicinity by failure to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic
       hazards, soil or slope conditions, liquifaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood
       control, high ground water, environmental health hazards, or wetlands.
    E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in the vicinity of the
       site through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance
       with community general plan standards.
    F. The landscape ordinance requires that storage yards to be screened from public view by plants, solid
       opaque fencing, berms, or a combination thereof. The interior areas of storage yards are exempted from
       the landscaping requirements.




                               PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Salt Lake County Planning Commission grant approval for the Conditional Use permit subject to
the following conditions:
     1. Comply with UODT regulations and access approval.
     2. Comply with requirements of the listed reviewers and review agencies through the technical review process.
     3. Comply with applicable Development Standards for Industrial uses.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                      Page 3 of 3
              Industrial (cont.)

                   Open Storage Yards Objective: To allow for visual screening of outside
                   storage from a public street.


                   1.           Any salvage or
Standards

                            wrecking storage
                            yard or operation
                            not located within
                            or entirely behind
                            a building shall
                            be located at least
                            40' from any
                            public street
                            right-of-way and
                            shall be screened
                            by a solid visual
                            barrier fence at
                            least 6' high.
                            The 40' set back
                            area shall be
                            planted according to a planting plan prepared by a landscape architect
                            or licensed nurseryman specifying types, sizes, location of plants likely
Development




                            to adapt or survive considering the soils, climate and specific site
                            constraints. A visual barrier fence should be placed around the entire
                            parcel. See Figure C-4 and Appendix "A".
                   5


                   2.          When the
                            salvage or
                            wrecking area is
                            more than 3'
                            lower than the
                            crown of the
                            public street, an
                            earthen berm
                            may be required
                            in addition to the
                            solid visual
                            barrier fence or
                            wall.




              Salt Lake County Public Works Department
              Planning and Development Services Division                                          C-4
