                                                  File # 30826


             Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
                  Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna MT Planning Commission
Meeting Date: January 10, 2019
Current Zone: R-4-8.5 & R-1-6
Property Address: 3151 South 7900 West
Request: 50 Unit PUD (Three structures accommodating four dwelling units have been built or are in process)

Planner: Max Johnson, AICP
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval
Applicant Name: Adam Loser representing D.R. Horton


                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This project is an amendment to conditional use project #29191. This application is very similar to the previous
application with three notable modifications. As this amendment is being proposed by a different developer, their
first request is to no longer seek a mixture of housing types (i.e. single-family, two-family, and four-family
dwelling units) and instead propose to maintain the PUD project with all single-family dwellings. The PUD was
originally to be comprised of 50 units, which is still the desire of the developer. As one two-family dwelling and
two single-family dwellings have been built or are in construction, this approval will be applicable to the
remaining 46 units.

The second requested change is to alter the previously approved modern design of the building elevations to a
more traditional rambler design, while the third change involves the active-adult theme of the previous
development. The developer is not moving away from this concept as buyers express interest, but there is not an
aggressive marketing strategy to maintain the requirement either.

The site will also include the necessary amenities based upon the magnitude of the project, including
professionally landscaped open space.

This site was rezoned earlier to R-4-8.5 to accommodate the vision of the previous developers for two-family and
four-family dwellings, which are no longer being pursued.
        Request: [Conditional Use Amendment of file #29191                                         File #: 30826


                             SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)




Adjacent property is single-family residential in nature.



                                  GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
This development satisfies objectives within the following goals of the general plan.

Goal 2: (Community) Develop communities with quality urban design that encourage social interaction and
support family and community relationships, as well as healthy, active lifestyles.

Goal 3: (Mobility) Promote land use development patterns that provide a high quality of life to all and offer choice
in mobility.

Goal 5: (Housing Choices) Create places where all citizens are welcome to live.



Conditional Use Summary                                                                                   Page 2 of 5
        Request: [Conditional Use Amendment of file #29191                                           File #: 30826



                                      LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
         Requirement                    Standard                       Proposed                Compliance Verified
  Height                      35 Feet                       >35 Feet                     Yes
  Front Yard Setback          25 Feet                       15 Feet                      Yes – With PC Approval
  Side Yard Setback           18 Feet (10’ & 8’)            5 Feet                       Yes – With PC Approval
  Rear Yard Setback           15 Feet                       10 Feet                      Yes – With PC Approval
  Parking                     2 Per Dwelling Unit           <2 Per Dwelling Unit         Yes



  Compatibility with existing buildings in terms of size, scale and height.              Yes
  Compliance with Landscaping Requirements Verified.                                     Yes
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                      Yes



                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Issue of Concern: Planned Unit Developments require an appropriate amount of amenity credits in addition to a
required playground. The applicant prefers not to install a playground, which was also not a requirement of the
previous approval as the intent at the time was to have an active adult-oriented community.

Proposed Mitigation: The Planning Commission requires either adherence to the standard or the addition of an
equivalent amenity in lieu of the playground.



                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
There has been one inquiry from the public in response to the notification mailing. In addition, there have been
two negative responses to this application at the time of this report dated January 7, 2019. The two responses
have been received from the owners who currently occupy the new homes in this development.



                               PLANNING COMMISSIONS’ RESPONSE
This item has been discussed briefly at both a planning commission meeting in October and November, and at
Council meetings in November and December. These discussions were in response to questions asked of staff by
the public bodies, and on one occasion, by public comment provided at the November Council meeting.



                                  REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
Compliance with current building, construction, engineering, fire, health, landscape and safety standards will be
verified prior to final approval.
                                        PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
19.78.030 – Planned unit development defined.


Conditional Use Summary                                                                                     Page 3 of 5
          Request: [Conditional Use Amendment of file #29191                                      File #: 30826

        “Planned unit development” for the purpose of this chapter, means an integrated design for
development of residential, commercial or industrial uses, or combination of such uses, in which one or more
of the regulations, other than use regulations, of the district in which the development is to be situated, is
waived or varied to allow flexibility and initiative in site and building design and location in accordance
with an approved plan and imposed general requirements as specified in this chapter. A planned unit
development may be:

          A. The development of compatible land uses arranged in such a way as to provide desirable living
             environments that may include private and common open spaces for recreation, circulation and/or
             aesthetic uses;
          B. The conservation or development of desirable amenities not otherwise possible by typical
             development standards;
          C. The creation of areas for multiple use that are of benefit to the neighborhood;
          D. The adaptive improvement of an existing development.

Staff believes that the developer’s proposal meets the definition of a planned unit development. Staff has worked
with the applicant to ensure that the appropriate amounts/ratios of open space, landscaping, and amenities will
be provided. The standard as applied to the initial application required the applicant to add a playground, though
the applicant’s desire to build an active adult community was not conducive to offering a playground. With this
amendment, there is one credit of open space remaining unsatisfied if a playground is not installed. This would
require the applicant to request a waiver of the playground requirement. The planning commission may deviate
from this standard to require the playground and approve an alternative amenity to satisfy this requirement.

19.40.100 – Density
        The allowable density for planned unit developments and dwelling groups shall be determined by the
planning commission on a case by case basis, by reviewing the following factors:

    •     Recommendations of the County and non-county agencies;
    •     Site constraints;
    •     Compatibility with nearby land uses;
    •     Provisions of the applicable general plan.

    Notwithstanding, the planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with density higher
    than the following:

                           Housing Type                                            Density
        Single-family dwellings                              7.0 units per acre
        Two-family dwellings                                 12.0 units per acre
        Three-family dwellings                               15.0 units per acre
        Four-family dwellings                                18.0 units per acre



The current amendment is consistent with the original approval of 50 lots total (46 new single-family dwellings).
Staff has reviewed this submittal and verifies that as requested with this conditional use amendment, density is
not increasing beyond what was originally approved under project #29191.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                  Page 4 of 5
         Request: [Conditional Use Amendment of file #29191                                      File #: 30826


                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends approval of this project subject to the following:

    1.   Applicant demonstrates compliance with a technical review, which includes a more detailed analysis of the
         proposed landscaping.
    2.   Applicant obtains a private lane agreement with Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District.
    3.   Applicant works with staff to add the additional amenity required (unless waived by the planning
         commission).
    4.   Applicant to supply staff with two copies of the CC&R’s for the project prior to final approval.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                 Page 5 of 5
                                                                                                                   Existing
                                                                                                                     Unit




                                                                                              Existing
                                                                        Existing   Existing     Unit
                                                                          Unit       Unit

                                                                                                         PHASE 1
W:\15-015\dwgs\15-15 SP2.dwg, 12/10/2018 10:03:33 AM, DWG To PDF.pc3,




                                                                                                                        PHASE 2




                                                                                                                                  12-10-2018
1:1
                                                                                                                  Existing
                                                                                                                    Unit




                                                                                             Existing
                                                                       Existing   Existing     Unit
                                                                         Unit       Unit

                                                                                                        PHASE 1
W:\15-015\dwgs\15-15 SP2.dwg, 12/10/2018 8:56:52 AM, DWG To PDF.pc3,




                                                                                                                       PHASE 2




                                                                                                                                 12-10-2018
1:1
12/10/2018
12/10/2018