                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                             slco.org/development-services




                                                        File # 31069


         Exception Request Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: November 14, 2019
Parcel ID: 14-21-201-001-0000
Current Zone: M-2
Property Address: 2109 So. Jenkins Park Lane
Request: Exception Request for a waiver from having to install curb, gutter, and sidewalk
Applicant Name: Lyndon Jones Construction (Agent: Brent Overson)

Planner: Diana Martinez
Planning Staff Recommendation: Denial


                                              PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant is requesting Exception Request for a waiver from having to install curb, gutter and sidewalk along this
project property of Lot 1 of Jack Ass Flats Subdivision.



                               SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located off 2100 South in the newly subdivided Jack Ass Flats subdivision. The property in question is the
interior lot of the subdivision.
The property to the east is in Salt Lake City’s jurisdiction and currently stores jersey barriers. The properties to the west
and south are both vacant lands, zoned A-20 (Agriculture). The property to the east is zoned M-2.




                                          PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Jack Ass Flats Subdivision Plat was recorded with the requirement that “curb, gutter, and sidewalk improvements are
required at the time of any land use approval and/or building permit”. Planning Staff believes the applicant was made
aware of this at the time that they made application for the Conditional Use request. Although there are no other
improvements along this roadway, Planning Staff believes at this time curb and gutter should not be waived and these
improvements should be installed. As for the sidewalk, Staff believes this too should not be waived but perhaps the
applicant can be required to sign a 10 year delay agreement, so that if the sidewalk is called to go in within that 10 year
period, this applicant would be required to put in the sidewalk at their cost.
         Request: Exception Request                                           File #: 31069

Greg Shultz, Managing Director, recommends to the Council that the waiver be denied. And has stated “the fact that the
property sits in the Utah Inland Port footprint and is surrounded by other properties that are highly likely to see
development in the near term. Waiving required infrastructure is not the responsible move here and sets a trend for
others to ask for the same treatment. The improvements are required, per ordinance, so if they want to develop the
property, they need to install the required infrastructure.”

Crystal Hulbert, County Transportation Engineer, has stated that “Engineering does not think it is imperative for sidewalk or
curb and gutter to be installed for this application at this time…”



                                 PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION


Planning staff recommends that the Magna Metro Township Planning Commission forward a recommendation to the Magna
Metro Mayor (or his designee) that the exception to the installation of roadway improvements be denied, and that the
roadway improvements be installed as required, and that instead a delay agreement be entered into between Magna Metro
Township and the applicant to allow for a delay of the installation of the required sidewalk at a later time when requested by
engineering and the Metro Township (up to 10 years).




Exception Request Summary                                                                                          Page 2 of 2
    Neighboring Land Use
    Subdivision Application #30921
    2109 South Jenkins Park Lane




                                          S 7500 West
          Magna, UT 84044


                                      ³
       Target Property - Zone M-2

0     100    200           400 Feet
Cartography by Tom C. Zumbado
SLCo Planning & Development Svcs




                                                                     W 2100 South




                                                         Source: Esri, DigitalGlobe, GeoEye, Earthstar Geographics, CNES/Airbus DS, USDA, USGS, AeroGRID,
                                                        IGN, and the GIS User Community
