                                          Planning and Development Services
                                          2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                          Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                          www.msd.utah.gov




                                                     File # 31196


           Conditional Use Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: July 9, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-16-200-070-0000
Current Zone: A-20
Property Address: 7501 W. California Avenue
Request: Conditional Use for expansion of an existing landfill
Applicant Name: Rob Reynolds

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approve request for conditional use with conditions




                                           PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Rob Reynolds, is requesting Conditional Use approval to expand an existing landfill. The original
landfill is on property that is within Salt Lake City’s jurisdiction. This expansion property is 40 acres in size and is
the west of the existing landfill. The proposal is half the size of the original operation. When reached by phone,
a Salt Lake City Planner expressed no concerns related to this proposal.

The expansion will not have water or sewer connections, and no structures will be built on the site.


                             SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located off California Avenue (which is approximately 1300 South).

The property to the direct north of the subject property is the Salt Lake City Model Plane Airport. To the west is
the site for the new Dominion Energy Liquid Gas Facility, with properties to the south being vacant land.

In the near vicinity is the Waste Control Management landfill, the asbestos waste landfill and the Kennecott
tailings area as well as the Magna Water District and other industrial use facilities.
        Request: Conditional Use                                  File #: 31196




                                   LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS
The conditional use is compatible with other uses, as most properties in the vicinity are zoned or used for
manufacturing/industrial.




                               GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The current General Plan for Magna Metro Township was adopted September 2012. The property is
located on a mapped General Plan corridor which is planned for an area of “moderate change” and
encourages compatible development. Therefore, the development of this land is encouraged. It
should be noted that the General Plan for the Magna Metro Township is currently being updated by
the MSD Planning Staff.


                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
There are no issues in the conceptual review. As part of the development process, a technical review
will be performed providing the request is granted preliminary approval by the Planning Commission.


                                   NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent to property owners within 300’ of property. No neighborhood response has
been received as of the writing of this report.


                               REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
Agency reviewers approved the preliminary plan, with standard revisions and conditions to be met.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                          Page 2 of 4
        Request: Conditional Use                                         File #: 31196


                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

The conditional use is compatible with the General Plan and goals of the Magna Community.
19.84.050 Approval/Denial Authority
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.

   1. Planning Commission Approval.
          1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public
              meeting.
          2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
              meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the
              director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
          3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter upon
              satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
          4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
              commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be
              granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
          5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within a
              reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to
              review and take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the
              applicant of the meeting date.
          6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning
              commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section
              19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.
   2. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
          1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed
              for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
          2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the manner
              and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in
              Section 19.84.060; or
          3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
              imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards
              outlined in Section 19.84.060.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
        Request: Conditional Use                                     File #: 31196




                             PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff is recommending that the Planning Commission grant approval of the Conditional
Use for the Expansion of an Existing Landfill at 7501 W. California Avenue, subject to the following conditions:

    1. That The proposed use and development shall not present a traffic hazard due to poor site design
       nor anticipated traffic increases on the adjacent road network, nor exceed the amounts prescribed
       in the County Transportation Master Plan.
    2. That The proposed use and site development shall not pose a threat to the safety of persons who
       work or visit the property nor pose a threat to the safety of residents or properties in the vicinity by
       failing to adequately address: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions, liquefaction
       potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental
       health hazards, or wetlands.
    3. That the applicant complies with all agency reviewer requirements and revisions recommendations.
    4. That all final engineering fees and/or any improvement bonds must be paid prior to the release of
       the land use permit and any required business licenses.




Conditional Use Summary                                                                              Page 4 of 4
N


    California Avenue (approx 1300 South)




         Landfill
         expansion
         within Magna
         Township
         jurisdiction
                          Original landfill
                          within Salt Lake
                          City jurisdiction
                           California Avenue (1300 South)




Landfill expansion area                                 Salt Lake
                                                        City
                                                        jurisdiction




                   Magna Township
                   jurisdiction