                                          Planning and Development Services
                                          2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                          Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                          www.msd.utah.gov




                                                    File # 31215


           Conditional Use Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: November 12, 2020
Parcel ID: 14-30-204-002-0000
Current Zone: C-3
Property Address: 9135 W. Magna Main Street
Request: Modification to the original Conditional Use application for a Day Care Center, to add an outside
play area.
Applicant Name: Deana Rydalch

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions


                                          PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Deana Rydalch, would like to modify her original CUP application request to include an outside
play area for the Day Care Center/Preschool at 9135 W. Magna Main Street.

The play area is 19’ x 25’, with a 95 square foot shed within that area, leaving a usable area of 380 square feet.
Please see the photos attached to this report. The applicant is planning to have a playhouse, planter boxes and
sensory tables in this area for the children. Since this play area is very small, the applicant will not be able to put
any playground equipment.


                             SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The property is located on Magna Main Street at 9135 West. The building that Ms. Rydalch’ s proposed Day Care
was approved to be in, is one of two suites in the building. The business in the other suite and next door is “The
Door Church”.

The building that abuts the building directly to the west also has two suites in it. Next to Ms. Rydalch’ s suite is a
retail shop called “Utah Crystal Sanctuary”.
        Request: Conditional Use                                        File #: 31215


                                  GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The current General Plan for Magna Metro Township was adopted September 2012. The property is
located on a mapped General Plan corridor which is planned for an area of “focused change” and
encourages compatible development. Therefore, the development of this land is encouraged. It
should be noted that the General Plan for the Magna Metro Township is currently being updated by
the MSD Planning Staff and GSBS Consultants.


                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
The applicant will be required to work with the Building Official on options for safely locking this outdoor area, so
that the employees and children will be able to get out of the building in case of an emergency.




                                      NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent to property owners within 300’ of property. No neighborhood response has
been received as of the writing of this report.


                                  REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
The MSD Building Official and Unified Fire Authority (UFA) reviewer have given a conceptual OK for this
project.



                               PLANNING COMMISSION AUTHORITY
19.84.050 Approval/Denial Authority
The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications.

        A. Planning Commission Approval.
           1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during a public
               meeting.
           2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented through the public
               meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of
               the director or director's designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
           3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final approval letter
               upon satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of approval.
           4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the planning
               commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month extension may be
               granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the original filing fee.



Conditional Use Summary
        Request: Conditional Use                                     File #: 31215

           5. A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use application within
              a reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning commission is authorized to
              review and take action on an application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified
              the applicant of the meeting date.
           6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the planning
              commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the standards in Section
              19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.

       B. Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:
           1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property is proposed
               for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in Section 19.84.060;
            2. Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including the
               manner and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be mitigated with
               the imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards outlined
               in Section 19.84.060; or
           3. Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated with the
               imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance with the standards
               outlined in Section 19.84.060.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017
/2017


                            PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends the Planning Commission grant approval of the modification to the
original Conditional Use of a Daycare Center to add an outside play area located at 9135 W. Magna Main
Street, subject to the following conditions:
    1. That the applicant comply with the original conditions of approval for the Daycare Center.
    2. That the applicant complies with all agency reviewer requirements and recommendations for the
        outdoor play area.
    3. That the outdoor play area is not to be covered.
    4. That the applicant is to follow Utah State code for the number of children to be in the outside play
        area at one time.
    5. That the outdoor play area is fenced to allow for the safety of children and others supervising them.




Conditional Use Summary
N
Door   Building

       25'

19'
          Shed
                  gate