                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                      www.msd.utah.gov




                                         EXP2020-000118


           Special Exception Summary And Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Township Planning
Commission Meeting Date: January 14, 2021
Parcel ID: 14-28-354-017-0000
Current Zone: R-1-6
Property Address: 3348 South 7780 West
Acreage: 0.20 acres
Request: Special Exception Application to have a Nonconforming Use (two-family dwelling) declared
legal in a Single-Family zone
Applicant Name: Tamara Gunderson

MSD Planner: Diana Martinez
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval with conditions



                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
     The applicant, Tamara Gunderson, is requesting a determination that a use violation be declared legal
through Special Exception. This includes a non-conforming use of a two-family dwelling declared legal in a
single-family zone. The two- family dwelling unit looks like a single-family dwelling with one main front door
providing access to the main level of the structure. There is a second entrance on the side of the house that
goes to the basement, which has been rented out for many years as a basement apartment.
     Our research indicated that two electrical panels have been in place since 1993 (see attached letter from
Rocky Mountain Power). However, there is only one address for the structure. The two units use “Unit A” and
“Unit B” to distinguish between the two for mail and other services.



                           SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
      The subject property is in an area of Magna that is currently zoned for single-family residential (R-1-6
zoning). However, as recently as 1993, most of the central portion of Magna was zoned R-2-6.5, which allowed
two-family dwellings on a 6,500 square foot lot.
      The applicant’s house was built in 1968, according to the County Assessor’s office. Although the zoning at
that time was R-2-6.5, the house was built as a single-family dwelling with one kitchen with no intent of a second
unit.
EXP2020-000118             Special Exception Summary and Recommendation

                           ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
        This structure has not had a building code inspection for a two-family dwelling, as it was originally built as a
single-family home in 1968. It is not known if there are building code violations that could involve the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents, nor is it known if there is fire wall between the two units that would meet
building code requirements for a two-unit structure. If the applicant receives approval for this request, the
applicant will be required to obtain a building permit, so this will allow for building code inspections can be done
to assure that the structure meets building code requirements for a two-family dwelling.
        The applicant has submitted documentation to show continuous renting of the units for a ten-year period
(attached). In addition, having had two electrical panels since 1993 (when the zoning allowed two-family
dwellings) is strong evidence that there has been two units in this structure, since that time.




                                        NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
       Notice has been sent out to property owners within 300’ of the property. No responses have been
  received as of the writing of this report.


                                    REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
       The application was sent out to the Building Official and the Code Enforcement Supervisor for
  review and recommendation.

       The Building Official’s comment:
                    • Conditional upon making sure there are no life safety issues, and that they meet
                      the requirements of the building code for a two-family dwelling, including fire
                      separations.
       The Code Enforcement Supervisor’s comments:
                    •   There are no open cases on this property.
                    •   Code enforcement has no issues with this property becoming a legal two-family
                        dwelling as long as all proper approvals are given, and that the applicant comply
                        with all requirements from the Building Department.



                                            PLANNING ANALYSIS

  Section 19.88.140(A) of the ordinance provides a mechanism for property that has been used in violation of the
  zoning ordinance to be recognized as a lawful use, as outlined below:

   A. Whenever land or a structure is used in violation of this title, the owner may file an application with the
      planning commission to have the use declared legal through special exception. The planning commission may
      approve such an application only when the evidence establishes all of the following:




                                                                                                                  2 of 3
EXP2020-000118            Special Exception Summary and Recommendation


           1. The use exists on the property at the time of the application and has been in continuous violation of
              the zoning ordinance for a period exceeding ten years;
           2. No complaint has been made to the development services division concerning the violation for a
              period exceeding ten consecutive years during which the violation existed;
           3. Continuation of the use will not have a detrimental effect on the health, safety or welfare of persons
              or property in the vicinity.



  Section 19.88.140(B) outlines the evidence that the Planning Commission may consider when making its
  determination, as follows:

   B. The planning commission may consider as evidence:
          1. Documents that are part of the public record, such as tax appraisals, utility records, aerial
              photographs, building permits, etc.
          2. Documentation from third parties, such as affidavits, photographs, etc.
          3. Documentation from current or past property owners, such as tax records, rental/lease agreements,
              appraisal                                      records,                                     etc.

               In approving an application hereunder, the planning commission may set any conditions it deems
               necessary for protection of adjacent properties or the public welfare including provisions limiting the
               period of time the use may continue. This section shall in no way be interpreted to permit the
               continuation of any violation which exists on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
               section. Any person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing officer a decision rendered
               by the planning commission pursuant to this section. Appellants shall follow the appeal procedures
               set forth in Section 19.92.050 of this title.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 17-01-03 on 1/17/2017



                                PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
  The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the Special Exception allowing for a
  Non-conforming Use of a two-family dwelling to be declared legal, subject to the following conditions:
      1- That the non-conforming use be allowed to continue so long as it is owner occupied.
      2- That the non-conforming use shall expire if the ownership of the property is to change, at that time, the
          new owner may apply for a special exception to be reviewed and approved by the Planning
          Commission.
      3- That the owner/applicant must apply for a building permit within 30 days of the Planning Commission’s
          approval (by February 15, 2021) and obtain the issuance of the building permit within one year of the
          Planning Commission’s approval date (by January 14, 2022)
      4- That the owner/applicant comply with all building code requirements for a two-family dwelling.
      5- That the owner/applicant comply with off street parking requirements as per Ordinance 19.80.030 and
          19.80.035.




                                                                                                                3 of 3
N