                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        msd.utah.gov




                                                 File # REZ2021-000383


                   Rezone Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: September 9, 2021
Parcel ID: 14-30-233-043-0000
Current Zone: R-1-6
Proposed Zone: R-1-5
Property Address: 2927 South 8850 West
Request: Rezone
Applicant Name: Gary Wilson, owner/applicant

MSD Planner: Molly Gaughran
MSD Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval



                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The applicant, Gary Wilson, is requesting a rezone for the subject property to allow for the future subdivision of
the property into two single-family residential lots. The existing home on the property would remain. One
additional single-family home is proposed.


                            SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
The subject property for the proposed rezone is located at 2927
South 8850 West, and fronts onto 8850 West. The property is
12,632 sq. ft. in size (0.29 acres). The neighborhood
surrounding the subject property is zoned R-1-6.
        Request: Rezone R-1-6 to R-1-5                                   File #: REZ2021-000383




                                 GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
This property is located in the Historic Neighborhoods Area, which has the highest residential neighborhood
densities in the Municipality at approximately 7 dwelling units per acre. Future residential development
opportunities are limited to possible development of the Cyprus High School site and limited infill opportunities.
Future residential densities should be consistent with existing lot sizes and densities (General Plan, 2021, pg.
35).

Neighborhood Stabilization Area (pg. 41)
The property is located in the “Old Magna” neighborhood, the community’s original neighborhood with the
oldest housing and infrastructure, characterized by older homes on small lots.
Future Zoning Considerations:

    •   Target Building Height: 1-2 Stories
    •   Target Maximum Density: 6 du/acre internal to area, 12 du/acre at Magna Main/8400 West node, 6
        du/acre at existing Cyprus High School site
    •   Character: This area stretches beyond the Historic District but retains much of the same character with
        historic masonry structures and small lots. Lots increase in size and are structures are newer as you move
        south. This area also contains the old Cyprus High School Site which will be vacated in 2024 when the
        new Cyprus High School is completed in Little Valley Gateway. The neighborhoods in near the southern
        boundary of the area are established with a mixture of densities.
    •   Primary Uses: Mixed density residential, institutional
    •   Special Features and Considerations: Parking is limited within the historic areas which should be
        considered with new development. The location of the old Cyprus High School site is within a
        neighborhood which should be considered when determining a future use for the site.

Future Land Use Recommendations (pg. 38)
4. Provide for infill and replacement housing:
    • Review current zoning and development provisions to ensure that infill and replacement housing is
        context sensitive
    • Ensure zoning and development provisions ensure building mass, height, roof type and building materials
        are consistent with the surrounding neighborhood when the proposed project is located within an
        existing neighborhood


                                     LAND USE CONSIDERATIONS

    Requirement                 Existing R-1-6                  Proposed R-1-5               Existing Parcel
                                                                                        Approx. 0.29 acres
 Minimum Lot Area 6,000 sq. ft.                          5,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                        /12,632 sq. ft.
 Minimum Lot        60 feet at a distance 25 feet from   25 feet at a distance 20 feet
                                                                                       Approx. 91 feet
 Width              the front lot line                   from the front lot line
 Front Yard Setback 25 feet                              20 feet
 Rear Yard Setback
                    30 feet without a garage; 15 feet    20 feet without a garage; 15
                    with a garage                        feet with a garage


Rezone Summary                                                                                           Page 2 of 5
        Request: Rezone R-1-6 to R-1-5                                  File #: REZ2021-000383

                   5 feet one side and 11 feet on the
                                                      5 feet unless attached to a
 Side Yard Setback garage or driveway side or 8 feet
                                                      dwelling on an adjacent lot
                   on each side
                   No accessory building or group of
                   accessory buildings shall cover
 Lot Coverage                                         Same as R-1-6
                   more than twenty-five percent of
                   the rear yard.
 Building Height   35 feet                            Same as R-1-6
 Single-family
                   Allowed as a permitted use         Allowed as a conditional use
 dwelling allowed

 Compatibility with existing buildings in terms of size, scale and height.             Yes.
 Compliance with the General Plan.                                                     Yes.



                         ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
The Magna Planning Commission has expressed disfavor in previous public meetings regarding upzoning
(increasing residential density) within old Magna. While rezoning the subject property could potentially reduce
the lot width following a subdivision process, there is enough lot area existing to create two lots of
approximately 6,000 square feet each. This is the current lot area requirement of the existing R-1-6 zone.


                                     NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Notice has been sent out to property owners within 300’ of this property. No response has been received as of
the writing of this report.



                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
The potential increase in residential density is limited to one single-family home. In the existing neighborhood
nearly, all homes are on 6,000 square foot lots and larger however, many are non-conforming as to the
minimum lot width of 60 feet. While the R-1- 5 zone would allow for a smaller lot size and a minimum width as
small as 25 feet, the smallest potential lot that could be created from the subject property would be 5,000 sq. ft.
in size and approximately 45 feet in width. This lot width would not be out of character for the neighborhood.
Neighboring lots on the North and the West of the subject property are each only 50 feet wide. The most likely
lot created from this property (with the existing house to remain) would be approximately 45 feet in width and
6,250 square feet in size.

Most homes on the block are also non-complying with regards to front yard setbacks in the R-1-6 zone. A new
home complying with the R-1-5 setbacks listed in ordinance would not alter the character of existing front yard
setbacks on the street.




Rezone Summary                                                                                          Page 3 of 5
       Request: Rezone R-1-6 to R-1-5                              File #: REZ2021-000383



                           PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The MSD Planning Staff recommends that the Magna Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation
to the Magna Township Council for the property located at 2927 South 8850 West subject to the following
findings:

   1. The proposed lot sizes will exceed 6,000 square feet in size.
   2. The lot width will not be out of character for this neighborhood.
   3. The recently adopted Magna General Plan encourages infill and replacement housing in viable locations.




Rezone Summary                                                                                    Page 4 of 5
       Request: Rezone R-1-6 to R-1-5   File #: REZ2021-000383

APPENDIX A. 2927 S 8850 W, Existing




Rezone Summary                                                   Page 5 of 5
Gary Wilson                                                                           7/21/2021
Owner
801-541-9757
garywilsonrealestate@gmail.com

Subject property:
2927 S. 8850 W
Magna UT, 84044

Thank your for you review of my parcel # 14-30-233-043

Proposal;
I am asking the City of Magna and Salt Lake County to allow a rezoning from R-1-6 to a R-1-5
on a existing vacant lot parcel that was subdivided prior to 1987.

The Subject property was originally (2) parcels therefore a subdivision should be authorized.

The current .29 acre parcel # 14-30-233-043 describes (2) old parcel legal descriptions of .15
acre vacant lot and .14 acres existing residence lot which were combined for tax purposes in
1987. The Salt Lake County Recorder’s office shows the current (1) parcel with the old legal
descriptions of .15 acre and .14 acre still reflected proving they were already subdivided. So, I
was advised to pursue rezoning in order to build a single family home on the vacant old parcel
(.15 acre, 47ft x149ft= 7003 sqft.)

I seeking to separate (Subdivide) the .29 acre parcel into their old original lot sizes as reflected
on the SL County’s office and build on the vacant lot that would fit in harmony with the existing
48 other homes of its same size.

FACTS
-Property has (2) water meters. One for each old parcel of .15 acre vacant lot and .14 acre
resident lot
-Property has (2) driveways built into the cement curbing for both .15 acre lot and .14 acre lot.
-Property still has (2) legal descriptions recorded in SL County Recorders office
-There are 48+ homes that would match the proposed lot size on the same street
-D.R. Horton’s new Development has built homes in 2021 that are 48ft wide frontage;(Violation
of R-1-6 ordinance) If they are approved, then should I be approved also?
-Affordable housing is needed in area
-Residential home would generate tax income for city
-Vacant lot has been used as an eye sore with Trailers and weeds
-This is a better alternative to the space than current status quo.

Sincerely,
Gary Wilson
To:       Magna Planning Commission
From: Travis Hair, MSD Planner
Date: September 1, 2021
Re:       OAM2021-000273 - ADU Ordinance
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (“MSD”) has prepared a proposed accessory
dwelling unit (“ADU”) ordinance for consideration by the Magna Metro Township (“Magna”). This
ordinance will also include regulation of internal accessory dwelling units (“IADU”) as mandated
by state legislation. This memo outlines the mandatory substantive requirements to comply with
state law, identifies areas where Magna retains discretion, and outlines requirements for
detached ADUs.
The proposed ordinance satisfies the minimum statutory requirements while allowing Magna to
retain as much regulatory authority as permitted under the new state law.
Generally speaking, any ordinance that conflicts with state law would be deemed invalid and no
effect. Taking no action therefore could result in vacuum of regulation where property owners
have more freedom with respect to IADUs than Magna may desire.
2021 Mandatory Requirements – Allowing Certain ADUs and Prohibiting Certain Municipal
Regulation
2021 House Bill 82 (the “Bill”) was passed by the legislature and signed by the Governor in 2021.
The effective date is May 5, 2021, and the deadline for establishing conforming ordinances under
UCA 10-9a-530 is October 1, 2021.
The Bill requires “internal” ADUs (“IADUs”) to be permitted in any residential zone. An internal
ADU is defined as an accessory dwelling unit created (i) within a primary dwelling, (ii) within the
footprint of the primary dwelling … at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit is created,
and (iii) for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer in UCA
Section 10-9a-530(1)(a).
The Bill allows Magna to regulate all IADUs to the extent that:
      •   Magna may identify up to 25% of the area of its residential zones where IADUs are
          prohibited.
      •   Magna may prohibit the installation of a separate utility meter.
      •   Magna may require that IADUs be designed in a manner that does not change the
          appearance of the primary dwelling as a single-family dwelling.



                 2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84114 • 385-468-6700
                                             msd.utah.gov
   •   Magna may require one additional on-site parking for an IADU – regardless of whether
       the primary dwelling is existing or newly-constructed.
   •   Magna may prohibit creation of IADUs if:
           o   The property is served by a failing septic tank; and/or
           o   The lot is 6,000 square feet or less.
   •   Magna may prohibit the rental of an IADU:
           o   For a period of less than 30 consecutive days; and/or
           o   If the primary dwelling is not occupied as the owner’s primary residence.
The proposed ordinance also requires:
   •   IADUs shall have a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing.
   •   Property owners must obtain a business license prior to renting an IADU.


Detached ADUs
In addition to those requirements and options outlined, the current draft also allows for detached
ADUs so long as they meet requirements as well. While many of the requirements will remain
the same, there are some additional requirements specifically for Detached ADUs. Those
requirements include:
   •   2 required parking spaced for detached units
   •   Detached ADUs only allowed on lots 12,000 square feet or greater or 6,000 square feet
       as approved by development agreement in a PC zone.
   •   Limited by height and lot coverage requirements.
   •   Height not taller than the existing home.
   •   Must be in the rear of the home not in front or side yards.


Recommendation:
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend approval of the ADU ordinance to
the Magna Council.




               2001 S State Street, #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190 • 385-468-6709
       SECTION I.        The amendments made here are designated by underlining the new

substituted words. Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations.

       SECTION II. Chapter 19.15 of the Magna Metro Township Code of Ordinances is enacted

as follows in order to authorize accessory dwelling units in certain residential zones and to enact

related regulations.

19.15.010 Purpose.

Magna Metro Township recognizes that Accessory Dwelling Units in single-family residential

zones can be an important tool in the overall housing plan for Magna. The purposes of the

Accessory Dwelling Unit standards of this code are to:

       A. Comply with State of Utah legislation which allows for Internal Accessory Dwelling

           Units generally and requires municipalities to adopt an ordinance if they wish to

           regulate certain requirements of the dwellings;

       B. Allow opportunities for property owners to provide social or personal support for

           family members where independent living is desirable;

       C. Provide for affordable housing opportunities;

       D. Make housing units available to moderate income people who might otherwise have

           difficulty finding housing in Magna;

       E. Provide opportunities for additional income to offset rising housing costs;

       F. Develop housing units in single-family neighborhoods that are appropriate for people

           at a variety of stages in the life cycle;




                                                   1
        G. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods by providing standards

            governing development of Accessory Dwelling Units; and

        H. Ensure that Accessory Dwelling Units are properly regulated by requiring property

            owners to obtain a business license and a building permit for an ADU prior to renting

            the ADU.

19.15.020 Definitions.

“Accessory Dwelling Unit” (ADU) means a self-contained dwelling unit located on an owner-

occupied property that is either incorporated within the single-family residence or in a detached

building (detached ADU) and is further defined by this chapter and by Utah State Code.

“Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit” (IADU) means an accessory dwelling unit created:

        A. within a primary dwelling;

        B. within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling

unit is created; and

        C. for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

“Owner Occupancy” means a property where the property owner, as reflected in title records,

makes his or her legal residence at the site, as evidenced by voter registration, vehicle registration,

driver's license, county assessor records or similar means.

“Primary Dwelling” means a single-family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary

residence of the owner of record.

“Public Utility Easement” (PUE) means an area on a recorded plat map or other recorded document

that is dedicated to the use and installation of public utility facilities.

19.15.030 Allowed areas and zones.




                                                    2
   a. IADUs shall be a permitted use on single family home lots in areas zoned primarily for

       residential use with a lot area of 6,000 square feet or greater, including R zones, A zones,

       , and the PC Zone. Detached ADUs are also permitted but may only be built on lots with

       an area of 12,000 square feet or greater, except that detached ADUs in a PC Zone are

       permitted on lots with a minimum area of 6,000 square feet if Magna has approved design

       standards for the same.

   b. In no case shall an ADU be permitted in a townhome, a multi-family PUD or other attached

       unit type, or on any lot that cannot satisfy parking, setback, or lot coverage requirements.

19.15.040 Number of residents.

ADUs shall not be occupied by more than one family.

19.15.050 Setbacks.

Setbacks on IADUs are the same as the setbacks for a single-family dwelling in the zone. Side

yard setbacks on detached ADUs will be consistent with setbacks for a single-family dwelling in

the zone. Rear yard setbacks on detached ADUs are a minimum of 10 feet. Detached ADUs must

also be a minimum of 6 feet from the main dwelling. For detached ADUs, if existing PUEs are

greater than the required setback, the minimum setback will be the PUE boundary.

19.15.060 Parking requirements.

In addition to the required parking for the existing home, the property owner must demonstrate

that one (1) on-site parking space is available for an IADU, and that two (2) on-site parking spaces

are available for a detached ADU. A property owner bears the burden of showing by a

preponderance of the evidence that sufficient parking is available. In cases where garage

conversions are done to create an IADU or detached ADU, replacement on-site parking spaces are




                                                 3
required for the primary dwelling in a number equal to the parking spaces eliminated by such

ADU.

19.15.070 Height requirements.

Detached ADUs shall be no taller than the existing home.

19.15.080 Lot coverage.

Lot coverage maximums as outlined per each zone. Any additions to an existing building or

construction of a detached ADU shall comply with Section 19.15.050 and except as provided in

that section, shall not exceed the allowable lot or rear yard coverage standard for the underlying

zone.

19.15.090 – Owner occupancy.

The principal unit or the ADU must have owner occupancy, except for medical, military service,

or religious reasons for a time period of up to 2 years. If an absence is warranted due to the above

reasons, an on-site manager shall be designated. The property owner may not receive rent for the

unit that was occupied by the owner. An application for an ADU shall include evidence of owner

occupancy.

19.15.100 – Number of ADUs per lot.

If one IADU on a lot exists, a detached ADU is not allowed.

19.15.110 – ADU design standards.

        A. An approved building permit is required for all ADUs before an ADU is constructed,

           and all other applicable provisions of this chapter and the Magna Metro Township Code

           must be met before an ADU can be rented. Existing non-compliant ADUs may come

           into compliance by receiving a permit and verifying existing work was done according

           to code.



                                                 4
B. A building permit may not issue for an ADU until the applicant has provided written

   confirmation from the applicable water supplier that the ADU complies with all

   applicable water service requirements.

C. The design and size of an ADU shall conform to all applicable building, fire, and health

   codes, including applicable water service requirements. The design and size of a

   detached ADU shall conform to these codes and any other applicable codes and a

   building permit.

D. Detached ADUs shall have a permanent foundation on which they are built. Detached

   ADUs are not allowed to be built on a foundation with a basement, on piers, or on any

   temporary or wheeled structure.

E. Conversions of an existing space to an ADU will require compliance with safety

   requirements per building code including, but not limited to, egress windows with

   window wells in case of emergency, and sufficient HVAC and climate control for the

   ADU.

F. IADUs will not require a separate HVAC or firewall.

G. Owner shall provide a separate address marking for emergency services and mailing

   services.

H. Detached ADUs shall not be located in a front or corner lot side yard.

I. Detached ADUs must be offset 10’ or more from the front façade of the main dwelling.

J. Any detached ADU shall have adequate facilities for all discharge from roof and other

   drainage.

K. Single family residences with a detached ADU shall retain the same appearance as a

   single-family residence.



                                         5
        L. An existing accessory building may be converted into an ADU provided that it meets

            the same ADU requirements in this chapter.

19.15.120: Affidavit and Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit.

Applicants for ADUs shall provide an affidavit stating that the owner of the property will live in

either the primary dwelling or ADU as their permanent residence. Upon approval of the ADU by

the building official, and upon the issuance of a business license pursuant to Section 19.15.130, a

Notice of Accessory Dwelling Unit including the affidavit shall be recorded against the property

to provide notice to a future owner of the owner occupancy requirement for the ADU. Upon sale

of the property, the new owner shall be required to sign and record a new affidavit and secure

reauthorization of the ADU by the building and business license officials. A copy of the recorded

notice will be provided to the applicant when completed.

19.15.130: Business licensing.

Prior to renting out any ADU, a business license must be obtained. That license must be maintained

as long as the unit is rented out.

19.15.140: Retention of single-family residence status

        A. ADUs are part of a single-family residence and shall not be used as a multi-family

            residence.

        B. ADUs may not be separately metered apart from the single-family residence.

        C. ADUs may not be sold or subdivided separately from the single-family residence.

19.15.150: Short-term rental use prohibited.

Units approved as ADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals. Any rentals shall be made for 30

consecutive days or more.

19.15.160 Variances.



                                                6
The land use hearing officer may grant variances to the standards of this chapter in accordance

with section 19.92.040. The land use hearing officer may not grant a variance from Building Code

requirements, owner occupancy provisions, square footage requirements, or the number of units

allowed per lot.




       SECTION III.     This ordinance shall become effective fifteen days after its passage and

upon publication of the ordinance, or a summary thereof on the Utah state noticing website.




                                               7
