                                                                    Planning and Development Services
                                                                    2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                                    Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                                    msd.utah.gov


                                        File # OAM2022-000542

                              Ordinance Amendment
                           Summary and Recommendation
Public Body:          Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date:         May 12, 2022
Proposal:             An amendment to Magna Municipal Code section 19.78.20. A proposed
                      amendment to Magna Municipal Code to allow an exception to the Applicability
                      and Area Requirements for a Planned Unit Development to allow certain multi-
                      family uses identified within Magna Municipal Code to use the Planned Unit
                      Development Standards and development process to create owner-occupied
                      units
Planner:              Brian Tucker
Recommendation:       Recommend approval of the proposed ordinance to the Magna Township
                      Council


                                     DESCRIPTION OF THE PROBLEM

MSD staff has repeatedly faced a problem with development proposals that involve multiple dwellings
that are for sale (e.g., townhouse, attached single-family unit), when the site is less than 3 acres. The
Magna zoning code currently only permits projects on smaller sites with multiple units if they are on one
lot and for rent, rather than divided into separate lots and for sale.

The Magna Municipal Code requires that a Planned Unit Development (PUD) have at least 3 acres. The
PUD ordinance gives guidance on the standards for multi-family projects and creates a means by which
those projects can be owner occupied. The Code also lists a number of uses, including multi-family, group
dwellings, dwelling groups, single family project developments and residential development with any
number of dwelling units per structure, per lot. These are all residential uses that can be approved based
on the density tables in the applicable zone rather than lot size.

In the case of dwelling groups and single-family project developments, the context of the code makes it
clear that these projects are intended to be in one ownership, rather than each unit or dwelling being
       Request: Ordinance Amendment                               File #: OAM2022-000542

owner occupied. These uses also include language that provides some guidance on the requirements
and standards by which they should be evaluated.

Multi-family, group dwellings and residential development with any number of dwelling units per
structure lack description or context. These uses generally lack usable development standards or an
approval process and cannot be made owner-occupied even though there is no clear reason they
couldn’t be. If the project area for one of these uses contained 3 acres, the MSD staff would use the PUD
standards, but these projects often lack 3 acres and have been proposed with as little as .65 acres.
Because they lack definition, context and standards, the proposed amendment would apply to only this
second group of uses.

                             DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE

Staff would like to amend the PUD ordinance, chapter 19.78 of the municipal code, to allow certain uses
to be processed as PUD’s, using a slightly modified version of the PUD standards, including the ability to
create owner occupied projects.

The proposed amendment would apply only to the R-M Residential Zone and the C-2 and C-3
Commercial Zones. In the R-M zone, the only use listed that the amendment would apply to is the
“Residential development with and number of dwelling units per structure per lot, pursuant to Section
19.44.040.” In the commercial zones, it is only the “multiple dwellings: group dwelling” use to which the
amendments would apply. Project areas with less than ½ acre and projects with less than 8 units would
be excluded. The ordinance is intended to provide a way for smaller multi-family uses to become owner-
occupied. However, when the project area is too small or when the dwelling units are limited, these
projects can be a detriment to a community. A for sale product with too few owners to bear the financial
burden of common areas, exterior and party walls becomes burdensome. When this happens, the
owners may look to the municipality for help, potentially creating a burden on the taxpayers that should
be borne by homeowners.

The proposed ordinance would require these developments to follow the lot width, area, and setback
requirements for the zone the project is located in. These standards will now apply to the project
boundary, rather than the property boundaries of the resulting lots or pads. Height would be subject to
the PUD standards.

A project developed under this amendment would follow the density of the “underlying zone”, meaning
the R-M or C-2/3 zone the project is developed under. A project developed under this amended code
would be subject to the ownership, interior streets, garbage and recycling, parking, building materials,
interior streetlight, and signage requirements of the PUD ordinance. Projects developed under this
amended code are subject to modified standards for landscaping along public rights of way, perimeter
fencing and open space requirements because smaller project areas have different challenges than
larger PUD’s. A smaller PUD is more likely to make use of a public street for access to individual lots and
private yards rather than common open space.

Because these project areas are smaller, developments created under the proposed ordinance will not
be able to increase the base density due to the density bonuses that larger PUD’s can make use of.


                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
       Request: Ordinance Amendment                               File #: OAM2022-000542

                                    PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT

Public notice was provided in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-205. Public notice was mailed to
affected entities on May 2, 2022. Notice was also posted on the Utah Public Notice Website at least 10
days prior to the public hearing.

No public comment has been received as of writing this report.

                                  REVIEW PROCEDURE AND CRITERIA

The Magna Township Council is the land use authority for zoning ordinance amendments. The Township
Council cannot amend the zoning map without first submitting the amendment to the Magna Township
Planning Commission for the Planning Commission’s recommendation. The Planning Commission must
hold a public hearing and review and recommend an action to the Council. The Council must then hold
a public hearing, after which they may adopt, adopt with revisions, or reject the ordinance amendment
recommended by the Planning Commission.

An ordinance amendment can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote
the public welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public welfare, or
is the best alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit from the
decision.

                                  PLANNING COMMISSION ACTIONS

The Planning Commission has three options with respect to the proposed ordinance amendment:
Option 1:     Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to Council; or
Option 2:     Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments to Council; or
Option 3:     Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.

                                PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to
the Magna Township Council.

Attachments:
1. Proposed Ordinance




                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
                                  Attachment #1 - Proposed Ordinance




19.78.20 Applicability And Area Requirements
A. Planned Unit Developments. A planned unit development is a conditional use that is only
   allowed for residential uses, except as provided in Section 19.78.040, and in zones that allow
   residential uses. The provisions in this chapter shall govern over the chapters relating to these
   other zones and other chapters in this title, with the exception of the FCOZ ordinance,
   Chapters 19.72 and 19.73, and the RCOZ ordinance (,Chapter 19.71), and Subsection B
   herein. A planned unit development in these zones shall have a minimum area of three acres,
   with the following exceptions:
   1. Existing condominium developments that cannot be sold or refinanced without the
      common area adjoining the homes in the development being divided up into individual
      lots that include the adjoining homes, and where these newly created lots would not
      qualify as traditional subdivision lots under county ordinance. In such cases, the newly
      created lots may qualify as a planned unit development if the development is at least one
      acre in size. Such a development shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter,
      except Sections 19.78.090—19.78.130 relating to review of the development.
   2. Developments abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan shall
      have a minimum area of one acre. To qualify as a development that is abutting or
      contiguous to a corridor, said development shall have a minimum frontage of the sum of
      the required minimum lot width of two lots as determined by the current zoning
      designation.
B. Attached Owner-Occupied Residential Development.
   1. Purpose. Magna Municipal Code allows for a number of attached residential
      development types beyond PUDs and condominiums, including residential development
      with more than two dwellings per structure. Residential development with more than two
      dwellings per structure is inadequately served by existing development processes and the
      PUD ordinance established through the rest of this Chapter. The purpose of this
      Subsection is to create development standards and review processes specific to residential
      development with more than two dwellings per structure, for-rent, and for-sale, on lots of
      less than three acres.
   2. Applicability. The following uses identified within the Magna Municipal Code, when
      not meeting the applicability of the three-acre PUD requirements, shall be subject to the
      requirements of this Subsection B.:
       a. In the R-M Residential Zone: Residential development with any number of dwelling
          units per structure per lot, pursuant to Section 19.44.040; and
       b. In the C-2 and C-3 Commercial Zones: Multiple dwellings; group dwellings.
       c. A development approved under this part shall have a project area of less than 3 acres
          but not less than ½ acre. This part does not apply to single or multi-phase projects
          containing 3 or more acres; such developments shall proceed under the PUD process
          as outlined in further sections of this Chapter.
       d. In order to facilitate the shared maintenance of common areas and amenities without
          burdening too few owners, a development approved under this part shall contain no
          fewer than 8 dwelling units.
   3. Interpretation of width, area, setback, and height requirements from the applicable
      zone:
       a. Developments under this part shall follow the lot width, area, and setback
          requirements identified for the zoning district in which the development is located.
       b. Developments under this part shall follow the height requirements established for a
          PUD in Subsection 19.78.030.K.2 of this Chapter.
       c. Lot width and area requirements apply to the project area as a whole and not any
          single lot or building pad created by a project developed under this part.
       d. Setback requirements are measured from the project boundary, between structures
          and roads and not from the lots or building pad created by a project developed under
          this part.
   4. Applicable developments shall be processed for approval under this part with the
      following requirements:
       a. A development approved under this part shall not exceed the allowable density or
          coverage of the applicable zone.
       b. A development approved under this part is subject to the ownership, interior streets,
          garbage and recycling, parking, building materials, interior streetlights, and signage
          requirements of this Chapter.
       c. A development approved under this part is subject to the open space, interior streets,
          landscaping on public right of way, and perimeter fencing requirements of this
          Chapter, as modified by this part.
           a. A development approved under this part may include the required landscaping on
              public rights-of-way within the yard area of a lot developed within the project or
              as common open space.
           b. A development approved under this part is subject to the perimeter fencing
              requirements of this chapter except that a lot or unit with primary access from a
              public right of way is not subject to the fencing requirements for the front yard of
              that lot or unit.
           c. A development approved under this part is subject to the 40% open space
              requirement of this Chapter but not subject to the 20% common area requirement.
       d. A development approved under this part is not eligible for any density bonus for any
          reason.

19.78.030 Development Requirements
The following are required for all developments:
   A. Ownership. The property shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time of
      application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of the property.
   B. Open Space. Common and private open space shall be provided and shall cover no less
      than forty percent of the gross site area. Common open space shall be provided in the
      amount of at least twenty percent of the gross site area. For purposes of this chapter,
   gross site area is defined as the total area of a planned unit development excluding
   anything in the public right-of-way.

   The required common open space shall be land areas that are not occupied by buildings,
   dwellings, structures, parking areas, streets, public park strips, curb-gutter-sidewalk,
   driveways, or alleys and shall be accessible by all residents of the development.
   Buildings erected for the purpose of providing an amenity may be included as open
   space. Said open space may be an area of land or water set aside, or reserved for use by
   residents of the development, including an expanse of lawn, trees, plants, fully accessible
   landscaped roof areas, or other natural areas. Common open space also includes common
   walkways (but not curb-gutter-sidewalk), formal picnic areas, and recreational areas.
   Common open space may be distributed throughout the development and need not be in a
   single large area. Common open space may include sensitive areas, such as areas with
   thirty percent or greater slope, fault zones, flood plains, high water tables, and wetlands,
   if they have been designed as an integral element of the project.

   Private open space is that space which is provided for each dwelling unit for personal use.
   Private open space is typically located immediately adjacent to or attached to the
   dwelling unit it is designed to serve and is for the exclusive use of the residents of the
   dwelling unit. Landscaped roof areas, balconies, or decks attached to individual units are
   considered private open space and are not to be calculated as part of required common
   open space.

   The planning commission may reduce the open space requirements of this section in
   order to accommodate a density bonus provided for in this chapter.
C. Interior Streets. The design of public and private streets within a development shall
   follow county standards for roadway development as defined by the county transportation
   engineer. Private streets shall be subject to the same inspections and construction
   standards as required for public streets. The county shall be granted a utility easement of
   the entire interior street system in a development project. All private streets shall be
   conveyed to a private association.
D. Garbage and Recycling. The development shall be designed to accommodate and
   efficiently manage the collection, storage, and removal of garbage in harmony with the
   neighborhood so as to minimize detrimental effects of the collection, storage, and
   removal on any residence within the development or abutting neighborhoods. If dumpster
   enclosures are provided for the development, no refuse dumpster or dumpster enclosure
   structure shall be located closer than ten feet to any perimeter property line. Enclosure
   structures must have a minimum of three sides that reflect or emulate the materials,
   design, and quality of the overall development. All developments shall provide recycling
   services.
E. Parking. The following minimum parking shall be provided for all multi-family projects
   under this chapter:
       1. Table of Parking Ratios.
One bedroom unit                                  1.5 parking spaces per unit

Two or more bedroom units                         2.0 parking spaces per unit

Guest parking spaces                              0.33 parking spaces per unit (min. of 6)

Storage parking spaces for recreational
                                                  Not Allowed
vehicle storage
2. The parking requirements identified in this section supersede other parking
   requirements in this title.
3. All parking areas, covered or open, except garages, shall have a landscaped buffer
   in accordance with Chapter 19.77, Water Efficient Landscape Design and
   Development Standards.
4. Developments offering the amenities listed below are entitled to the applicable
   parking reductions. These reductions are not mandatory, but if they are chosen,
   are cumulative. The planning commission may further modify the required
   parking with support of a traffic study.

    Eligible Unit Parking Reductions
Amenity                                               Reduction (stalls/unit)

Car Sharing (minimum 100 dwelling units)              0.05 per car share vehicle

Bicycle Lockers/Storage (1 space per unit
                                                      0.05
required)

Bicycle Share (on-site self-serve bike station)       0.05

Development-supplied transit passes for all
                                                      0.15
residents

Proximity of development within ¼ mile of a
                                                      0.20
rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station

Proximity of development within ½ mile of a
                                                      0.10
rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station

Senior Housing                                        0.20

Housing for students (< .25 miles from campus) 0.10

For Mixed-Use PUDs (19.78.040), shared
parking that allows both customers and residents 0.20
to park in the same spaces.
5. Parking is prohibited within approved fire access and turn-around facilities.
       6. Garages are encouraged.
          a. Garage parking, if used, shall have a minimum unobstructed size of twenty-
             two feet wide by twenty feet in length, or twenty feet wide by twenty-two feet
             in length. Single-car garages are also permitted and shall have a minimum
             unobstructed size of ten feet wide by twenty-two feet in length, or eleven feet
             wide by twenty feet in length.
           b. Covered parking, if used, shall be placed in locations adjacent or convenient
              to the buildings that they are intended to serve.
           c. Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty
              feet long by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two
              contiguous spaces per unit.
           d. Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty
              feet long by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two
              contiguous spaces per unit.
       7. Underground parking. Installation of underground parking adequate to meet fifty
           percent of the parking requirements of this section excluding guest parking, shall
           receive a twenty percent density bonus for the planned unit development.
F. Building Materials. Exterior materials of a durable or resilient nature such as brick, stone,
   stucco, prefinished panel, composite materials, or other materials of similar quality,
   hardiness, and low maintenance characteristics shall be used. No single material is
   allowed to exceed fifty percent on street-facing facades. Other materials may be
   considered for soffits, or as an accent or architectural feature. Twenty-five year
   guarantee, architectural shingles and/or other longer lasting roof materials are required.
G. Landscaping on Public Right-of-Way. With the exception of Forestry Zones, where a
   development is adjacent to a public right-of-way, a permanent open space shall be
   required along any front, side, or rear yard adjacent to said right-of-way. This area shall
   be kept free of buildings and structures (except fences, as per Chapter 19.77.050, and
   approved by the planning commission), and permanently maintained with street trees and
   other landscaping, screened or protected by natural features, as per Chapter 19.77. If such
   areas are the result of double frontage lot designs with inadequate access to the street,
   such areas shall be landscaped as per Chapter 19.77 with a five-foot landscaped area.
   Aesthetic entrance features are encouraged. Additional landscape treatments or buffers
   may also be required with width and landscaping specifications as per Chapter 19.77.
H. Perimeter Fencing. With the exception of Forestry Zones, fencing around the perimeter of
   all developments shall be provided. Acceptable fencing materials include architecturally
   designed brick, stone, or block, or pre-cast concrete. Fencing with materials using
   composite products, wrought iron, wood, or vinyl may be allowed with a minimum two-
   foot wide, six-foot tall brick or stone pillar spaced every ten feet on center. Unless
   otherwise allowed by the planning commission, exterior fencing along a public right-of-
   way shall be limited to brick, stone, or block, or pre-cast concrete and be setback a
   minimum of five feet from the property line to allow for a landscaping buffer designed in
   accordance with Chapter 19.77 to soften long expanses of walls. Interior fencing shall
   comply with Section 19.78.030(11)(f).
I. Interior Street Lights. With the exception of Forestry Zones, street and pedestrian lighting
   for streets on the interior of the PUD is required. All lighting fixtures shall be directed
   downward with mechanisms to prevent dark sky illumination. The applicant shall submit
   a plan which indicates the type and location of lights in relation to the development and
   designed for pedestrian safety. Minimum average foot-candles for local residential roads
   (thirty-five feet maximum) shall be 0.3, and shall be 0.5 for residential collector roads
   (thirty-six feet—forty-five feet).
J. Signage. Only low profile signs with a maximum size of fifty square feet, and five feet in
   height are allowed. No temporary signs are allowed other than for sale or rent signs with
   a maximum of six square feet in area per side. Only three such signs are allowed per three
   hundred feet of frontage. The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
   intensity and direction of any associated lighting shall be detailed in the application, and,
   except as provided in this chapter, shall be consistent with the characteristics of the
   community and Chapter 19.82, Signs.
K. Site Plan. All developments shall be guided by a total design plan in which the following
   development standards may be varied to allow density bonuses, and flexibility and
   creativity in site design and building location. The planning commission may require
   such arrangements of structures, open spaces, landscaping, buffering, and access within
   the site development plan so that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected. The
   following criteria shall be used by the planning commission principally to assure the
   design objectives of this section are met.
       1. Density. Subject to the following density bonuses, the density allowed for a
          development shall be no greater than that allowed in the zone in which it is
          located. Density shall be calculated using only net developable acreage. A density
          bonus in the following amounts is allowed if either or both of the following
          conditions exist:
          a. For developments with underground parking that is adequate to meet the
              parking requirements of this chapter excluding guest parking, a density bonus
              of twenty percent is allowed pursuant to 19.78.030(5)(g); and/or
          b. For developments within one-quarter mile (improved walking distance) of a
              rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station, a density bonus of twenty percent is
              allowed. For developments within one-half mile (improved walking distance)
              of a rail or BRT station, but greater than one-quarter mile, a density bonus of
              ten percent is allowed.
       2. Maximum Height. For the purpose of this chapter, building height is to be
          measured from the lowest point of original grade to the highest ridge.
           a. For any PUD adjacent to an R-1, R-2, R-4, A-1, or A-2 zone ("residential
              zone"), the maximum height for structures on the perimeter of the PUD
              adjoining said zones shall be twenty-eight feet. The maximum height of all
              other structures in such a PUD shall be thirty-five feet. PUDs with one
              building only, are allowed a rooftop garden or patio provided the rooftop
              garden or patio has a minimum setback of seventy-five feet from the property
              line. For purposes of this chapter, a structure on the perimeter is defined as
              any structure within fifty feet of the property line of the PUD.
       1. The height of buildings along the perimeter of a planned unit development
          adjoining a residential zone may be increased to the maximum height
          allowed in the underlying zone by one foot increments, with each
          additional one foot height increment requiring an additional one foot in
          setback from the perimeter (see figure 1 below for graphical rendering).
   b. The height of structures in all other planned unit developments shall conform
      to the otherwise applicable ordinances.
   c. At the discretion of the planning commission, height for dwelling structures
      along corridors as defined in the general plan and not adjoining a residential
      zone, may be increased by an additional five feet to accommodate a density
      bonus provided for in this chapter.
   d. Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission may at its discretion
      reduce or increase the otherwise stated maximum heights if mitigation is
      warranted, but only in cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional
      conditions or circumstances exist, such as the height of surrounding buildings.




       Figure 1. An illustration of height allowance as described in 11.b.1.a. above
       when approved by the planning commission, where for every foot increase in
       height requires a foot increase in minimum setback. This provision is designed
       to soften the impact to adjacent properties while allowing for increases in
       height where appropriate.
3. Perimeter Setbacks. Buildings (including covered decks or covered patios, or
   decks or patios in excess of eighteen inches above existing grade) located on lots
   on the perimeter (excluding the public frontage defined in Chapter 19.78.040 of
           the development), shall have not less than a fifteen-foot setback from the
           perimeter lot line, and shall have a setback from a right-of-way as prescribed by
           the underlying zone and Chapter 19.77. Otherwise, no specific yard, setback, or
           lot size requirement is imposed by this chapter. However, the purpose and design
           objectives of this chapter must be complied with in the final development plan,
           and the planning commission may require specific setbacks within all or a portion
           of the development to maintain harmony with the existing character of the
           neighborhood.
       4. Site Calculations. Specific calculations which address the percentage of open
          space, impervious versus pervious surfaces, and site improvements shall be
          submitted by the applicant with all project applications.
       5. Traffic Circulation. Points of primary vehicular access to the development shall
          be designed to provide smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements
          and minimum hazards to vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle traffic. Adequate
          emergency vehicle access shall be provided. Internal circulation systems shall
          include pedestrian paths, and may include bicycle paths, preferably separated
          from vehicular traffic. Where recreational facilities exist or are planned adjacent
          to the proposed development, such pedestrian and bicycle paths shall connect to
          these facilities.
       6. Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and acoustical privacy
          for dwelling units. Fences, walks, barriers, landscaping, and sound reducing
          construction techniques shall be used as appropriate to enhance the privacy of its
          occupants, the screening of objectionable views or uses, and the reduction of
          noise.
       7. Sidewalks. With the exception of forestry zones, as required elements of a
          development, interior sidewalks shall be installed to serve the units and connect to
          the public street.
       8. Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground, except as may be provided for
          in state law. Utility equipment shall be screened from view and preferably, not
          fronting on a public street.
       9. Private outdoor spaces. Each residential unit shall be required to have an outdoor
          patio/rear yard space with a minimum of one hundred square feet, or a balcony
          with a fifty square foot minimum.
L. Desirable Amenities. Amenities that are identified in the Salt Lake County Recreation
   and Open Space Standards Policy shall be installed in accordance with that policy. Where
   conflicts exist with this chapter and the Salt Lake County Recreation and Open Space
   Standards Policy, requirements identified in this chapter shall supersede.
M. Miscellaneous. Installation of xeriscaping is encouraged as an alternative to excessive
   lawn areas or other landscaping treatments that excessively consume water. Low
   impact/water retention development techniques are encouraged to manage stormwater
   onsite including but not limited to planter boxes, rain gardens, and bioswales in the open
   spaces.
Parking areas, service areas, buffers, entrances, exits, yards, courts, landscaping, graphics, and
lighting for both residential and non-residential development shall be designed as integrated
portions of the total development and shall project the residential character.
