                                                                     Planning and Development Services
                                                                     2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                                     Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                                     msd.utah.gov


                                         File # OAM2022-000543

                              Ordinance Amendment
                           Summary and Recommendation
Public Body:          Magna Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date:         June 9, 2022
Proposal:             Amendment to Magna Municipal Code sections 19.69.030 and 19.69.120. A
                      proposed amendment to Magna Municipal Code creating driveway length
                      standards and a tiered density requirement for the Neighborhood Land Use
                      District in the P-C Zone.
Planner:              Brian Tucker
Recommendation:       Recommend approval of the proposed ordinance to the Magna Township
                      Council
                                             BACKGROUND

At their February 8, 2022, meeting, the Magna Township Council adopted a motion to have the Magna
Township Planning Commission “examine and amend the zone density and parking issues”. This motion
was made in response to concerns raised by Councilman Barney about the lack of larger residential lots
in Magna generally and in the new master planned projects specifically. Councilman Barney also
expressed concerns about vehicles parking in a manner that block sidewalks in those new master
planned projects, thereby reducing walkability. The proposed ordinance amendment fulfills the Council’s
directive that the Planning Commission “examine and amend the zone density and parking issues”.

                                     DESCRIPTION OF THE PROBLEM

Zone Density: The Planned Community Zone makes use of land use districts or combinations of land use
districts in determining what uses will be allowed in a master planned community. The districts include
those for: open space; business, research or educational campuses; town centers; villages; and
neighborhoods. The neighborhood land use district is designed for “comparatively low-density mixed-
use development that emphasizes residential (single and multi-family) use, but also includes office,
commercial, public/semi-public, and recreation/open space uses. Neighborhood residential densities
are anticipated to range between 4 and 8 units per gross acre.” It is this district that is of interest for
discussing the Council’s adopted motion.
       Request: Ordinance Amendment                               File #: OAM2022-000543

The issue centers around the idea that are not enough larger residential lots being created where a
family can live for decades in the same home. The proponents of this idea have expressed a desire for
lots in the 1/3-to-1/4-acre range to be more common in Planned Communities and that a tiered system
should be created within the “Neighborhood” land use category. This tiered system would include some
number of lots in the 3-4 units per acre density range with others in the 5-7 unit per acre range.

When considering this issue, MSD staff notes that it is important to have a good mix of housing types
and sizes in a planned community but 1/3-to-1/4-acre lots are more typical of the traditional zoning of
the post war era than modern planned communities. The typical home in Magna is located on a lot
between 6,000 and 10,000 square feet, densities of 4.3 to 7.2 units per acre. It is estimated that less
than 10% of the homes in Magna are on a ¼ acre (10,890 square feet) or larger lot and yet many families
have been started and raised in this community and many of these residents are aging in place in the
same home where they raised their families. Others have raised their families and then downsized, not
wanting to continue to maintain relatively larger yards. There are those in the Magna community, as
well as the large Wasatch Front area, who would like to purchase a home to raise their family in but are
priced out of the market. Land acquisition costs are a significant component of house prices. These costs
are passed on to buyers, with larger lots being more expensive.

With these considerations in mind, the Planning Commission recommended that the MSD Staff bring
forward a proposed amendment that creates tiers of 4-5 gross acres per acre and 6-8 gross units per
acre. Staff have also proposed a minimum portion of the total housing be required in each of the tiers
with the remainder being negotiated between the Township Council and the developer.

Parking Issues: The discussion about vehicles parking in a way that blocks sidewalks seems to be centered
the idea that front setbacks in the master planned projects are not deep enough for today’s longer cars
and trucks. The largest projects under construction in Magna, Little Valley Gateway and Gabler’s Grove,
have a variety of front setback based primarily on the unit type. These setbacks rarely exceed 20’ and
can be as small as 10’. These setbacks are the result of the negotiations that led to the approval of these
projects. The P-C code does not have any required setbacks other than what the development
agreement states. The PUD ordinance has a focus more geared toward protecting adjoining land uses
and does not generally address setbacks from property lines. Planned Communities of both types don’t
always have lot lines in the traditional sense. These projects often make use of common areas and
building pads rather than lots.

It is important to ensure that a community is walkable and that residents are not forced to walk in the
street. In discussions with the Planning Commission in March, a number of ideas were presented and
discussed including a firm minimum setback, guidelines for setbacks that act as a baseline for
negotiations while retaining flexibility, adopting setbacks or guidelines for front facing garages rather
than a setback for the entire building and leaning on code and law enforcement to issue citations based
on existing codes.

                             DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE

Zone Density: The proposed amendment creates two tiers of density within the “Neighborhood” land
use category in the P-C Zone. These tiers are 4-5 units per acre and 6-8 units per acre. The ordinance
proposes that there be a mandatory portion of total dwellings in each tier, with the margin being at the

                                                                                                 Page 2 of 3
       Request: Ordinance Amendment                               File #: OAM2022-000543

discretion of the developer. The 4-5 units per acre tier would make up no less than 25% of the units and
the 6-8 units per acre tier would also make up no less than 25% of the units. The remaining 50% would
be negotiated between the Township Council and the developer and could range from 4-8 units per
gross acre.

Parking Issues: The proposed amendment addresses the setback of a street facing garage, rather than
the setback of the building itself. When the required setback is less than 25’, a garage facing a street,
alley, sidewalk, path or common driveway must be setback no less than 25’ or no more than 5’. A 25’
foot setback accommodates even the largest non-commercial vehicles and a 5’ setback is too small to
park a vehicle, even if that vehicle is sideways. The proposed ordinance requires that either an adequate
driveway parking space be provided or that driveway parking be precluded.

                                    PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT

Public notice was provided in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-205. Public notice was mailed to
affected entities on May 26, 2022. Notice was also posted on the Utah Public Notice Website at least 10
days prior to the public hearing. No public comment has been received as of writing this report.

                                  REVIEW PROCEDURE AND CRITERIA

The Magna Township Council is the land use authority for zoning ordinance amendments. The Township
Council cannot amend the zoning map without first submitting the amendment to the Magna Township
Planning Commission for the Planning Commission’s recommendation. The Planning Commission must
hold a public hearing and review and recommend an action to the Council. The Council must then hold
a public hearing, after which they may adopt, adopt with revisions, or reject the ordinance amendment
recommended by the Planning Commission.

An ordinance amendment can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote
the public welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public welfare, or
is the best alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit from the
decision.

                                  PLANNING COMMISSION ACTIONS

The Planning Commission has three options with respect to the proposed ordinance amendment:
Option 1:     Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to Council; or
Option 2:     Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments to Council; or
Option 3:     Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.

                                PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to
the Magna Township Council.

Attachments:
1. Proposed Ordinance

                                                                                                Page 3 of 3
                               Attachment 1 - Proposed Ordinance



19.69.030 Land Use Districts

Each P-C Zone shall establish land uses and development patterns, densities, and standards unique to
that zone. Upon approval, through the process set forth in this chapter, the established land uses and
development patterns and densities shall be established pursuant to the P-C Zone Plan and one or more
development agreements. The P-C Zone may consist of any number or combination of the following
land use districts that shall be identified in the Community Structure Plan as provided in this chapter.
Specific land uses proposed in the P-C Zone may only be established in conformance with provisions of
this chapter.

Neighborhood: This category is designed for comparatively low density mixed use development that
emphasizes residential (single and multi-family) use, but also includes office, commercial, public/semi-
public, and recreation/open space uses. Neighborhood residential densities are anticipated to range
between 4 and 8 units per gross acre, with no less than 25% of the total units in the 4-5 unit per gross
acre range and no less than 25% of the total units 6-8 unit per gross acre range to provide for a variety
of housing sizes and types. The remaining 50% of the proposed units can fall anywhere between the 4-8
unit per gross acre range.

Village: This category is designed for medium density mixed use development that includes residential
(single and multi-family), office, commercial, public/semipublic, and recreation/open space uses,
without a predetermined emphasis on any single use. Village residential densities are anticipated to
range between 9 and 20 units per gross acre.

Town center: This category is designed for high density mixed use development that emphasizes office,
commercial and recreational uses, but also includes residential (single and multi-family), public/semi-
public and open space uses. Town center residential densities may exceed 20 units per gross acre.

Business, Research, or Educational Campus: This category is designed to accommodate a campus
dedicated to a mixture of business uses: office, commercial, industrial, recreational, and public/semi-
public uses; or to an educational institution, including classrooms, laboratories, offices, housing,
educational facilities of all types and other related uses.

Open Space: Landscaped area, natural area or farmland that is established to provide and preserve
outdoor recreational, agricultural, or other similar uses. In addition to the open space district, areas of
open space may also be provided within the other land use districts as well.

19.69.120 Development Standards

(A)     Open Space and Common Areas.

 Open Space includes parks, trails, natural area, or farmland, which is established to provide and
preserve recreational, agricultural, or other similar uses in the P-C Zone as approved by the Planning
Commission. Common areas include landscaped areas (including landscaping around schools, colleges,
and other civic buildings), athletic fields, gathering places such as plazas, commons, exterior courtyards,
public recreational facilities, landscaped medians or park strips that exceed Magna standards, but do not
include areas contained within a typical public street cross section. The applicable CSP Standards and
Project Specific Standards shall govern the use and character of the open spaces and common areas.
Each P-C Zone shall contain a minimum of 20 percent of the gross acreage in a combination of common
areas and open space, at least half of which (10% of the gross acreage) shall be open space. These areas
shall be designated in the applicable Project Plan and separately identified on any applicable final plat of
subdivision or site plan. Open Space recorded as a lot or lots in subdivisions or as common area in
condominium plats and shall be maintained with open space or conservation easements or such other
arrangement as is approved by the Planning Commission in connection with Project Plan or subdivision
or condominium approval.

(B)     Yard requirements.

Yard requirements shall be determined and governed by the applicable Project Specific Standards
established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter. The following minimum requirements shall
apply in the P-C Zone.

1.       Minimum yard areas shall be measured from the front, side and rear lines of lots, condominium
private ownership yard areas (where building footprint is not recorded) or from accesses, driveways, or
streets (where no property lines or private ownership yard areas exist).

2.      Buildings may not be located within a public right of way or utility easement.

(C)     Fencing, screening, clear vision.

Fencing, screening, and clear vision requirements shall be determined and governed by the applicable
Project Specific Standards established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter. The following
requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

l. All mechanical equipment, antennas, loading and utility areas, and trash receptacles shall be screened
from view with architectural features or walls consistent with materials used in the associated buildings
as more specifically set forth in the applicable Project Specific Standards.

2. Fences and landscape materials, except for mature trees which are pruned at least 7 feet above the
ground, shall not exceed 2 feet in height within a 10 foot triangular area formed by the edge of a
driveway and the street right-of-way line or within a 30 foot triangular area formed by the right-of- way
lines of intersecting streets.

(D)     Architectural standards.

Architectural requirements shall be determined and governed by the Project Specific Standards
established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter. The following architectural standards and
requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

1.       Architectural design of buildings and building materials shall be established in the Project
Specific Standards.

2.      All building materials shall be high quality, durable, and low maintenance.

3.       The applicable Project Specific Standards shall address exterior relief of buildings, design of all
sides of buildings, and architectural compatibility of buildings.

(E)     Landscaping requirements.
Landscaping requirements shall be determined and governed by the applicable Project Specific
Standards established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter. The following landscaping
requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

1.      The applicable Project Specific Standards shall address the landscaping and proper maintenance
of required front, side, and rear yards of lots and private ownership areas in the P-C Zone.

2.       All areas of lots and parcels in the P-C Zone not designated for open space, parking, buildings, or
other hard surfacing shall be landscaped and properly maintained. Designated open space shall remain
in a natural condition, cultivated, or landscaped, and properly maintained in accordance with the Project
Specific Standards.

3.       All park strips and public right-of-way areas in the P-C Zone shall be landscaped and properly
irrigated and maintained by the applicable property owners in the P-C Zone unless otherwise approved
by the council. All park strip areas shall be installed by the developer and properly maintained by the
applicable owners in the P-C Zone. A plan for funding of on-going maintenance of street landscaping by
the property owners shall be presented for approval by Staff at the time of site plan approval.

(F)     Lighting.

Lighting requirements shall be determined and governed by the Project Specific Standards established
pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter.

(G)     Other requirements.

The following requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone.

1.      All developments shall be graded according to Magna's engineering and building requirements
to provide adequate drainage. Buildings shall be equipped with facilities for the discharge of all roof
drainage onto the subject lot or parcel.

2.      The applicable owners shall properly maintain all private areas of individual lots or parcels.

3.      The specific requirements of this Section 110 shall be governed by the Project Specific Standards
established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter and may be modified as the Council deems
appropriate pursuant to the terms of the applicable Project development agreement.

4.       All common area improvements including buildings, open space, recreational facilities, roads,
fences, utilities, landscaping, walkways, street lights and signs not specifically dedicated to Magna or
accepted for ownership or maintenance by Magna shall be perpetually maintained by the applicable
owners or their agents through a special taxing district, owners' association with power to assess and
collect fees for maintenance or other assessment and maintenance mechanisms acceptable to the
council. Improvements for which Magna agrees to accept maintenance responsibility shall be reviewed
by the applicable Magna service provider for compliance with adopted standards prior to approval.

5.       When the building setback and/or building to line is closer than twenty-five (25) feet from a
street, a sidewalk or path, an alley, or from a common driveway providing primary access and
circulation to other dwelling units, attached and detached garages that face that vehicular access or
pedestrian way shall be located so that the garage entry is a maximum of five (5) feet or a minimum of
twenty-five (25) feet, at the closest point from the street, pedestrian way, alley or driveway.
