                                                                   Planning and Development Services
                                                                   2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT
                                                                   84190-4050
                                                                   Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                                                   msd.utah.gov


                                       File # REZ2022-000616

                               Zoning Map Amendment
Public Body: Magna Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: June 22, 2022
Parcel ID: Portions of 14-20-378-025-0000
Current Zone: C-2 (Commercial Zone)
Property Address: 8516 West Magna Main Street
Request: Amend the Zoning Map from C-2 (Commercial Zone) to R-2-6.5 (Medium Density Residential
Zone) to allow a residential structure that had been converted to commercial use to be converted back
to a residential use.

Planner: Brian Tucker
Applicant Name: Derek Shenk

                                   SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION




The property is located on the east end of Magna’s Main Street at 8516 West Magna Main. The home
and property are located on the north side of the street between 8490 West and 8550 West.
       Request: Zoning Map Amendment                              File #: REZ 2022-000616

                              PROJECT BACKGROUND AND DESCRIPTION

The applicant made application for a building permit to remodel the structure in November of 2021. In
most cases a building permit is subject to a land use review prior to permit approval. In this case it was
noted that the property is zoned C-2 (Commercial) and that residential uses are not permitted in that
zone. It was initially recommended that the applicant seek to have the property declared legal, non-
conforming. In researching the record, the MSD realized that the property had been converted to
commercial use and business licenses had been issued for a barber shop. A non-conforming use
determination was no longer a possibility because the residential use had been intentionally abandoned
in favor of a commercial use by a previous owner. A legal, non-conforming use is abandoned when a
conforming land use is established. Residential uses are not allowed in the C-2 zone so the residential
use cannot be reestablished under that zone.

Conversations between the applicant and the MSD staff then explored alternatives such as variances,
exception and rezones with the applicant but none of these were thought to be likely fixes at the time.
Exceptions can only be granted as provided for in the code, variances are governed by state code and
are by design rarely granted and it was thought that the Magna Council was unlikely to grant a rezone
for one property where the property on both sides was still zoned commercially. Conversations
continued with the applicant and the idea of an administrative determination was floated in January of
2022 for allow a mixed-use project with commercial on the main floor and residential in the basement.

At some point the applicant started to remodel the structure without a permit and was issued a stop
work order. On April 3rd, 2022, the applicant submitted plans for a mixed-use building with a showroom
on the main level and a residence in the basement. On April 4th, 2022, the applicant submitted a formal
request for an administrative determination, a request that was granted on April 25, 2022, when then
Director of Planning and Development Lupita McClenning issued an administrative determination
allowing mixed use. The applicant then received Planning Commission approval of a conditional use
permit for a mixed-use structure on May 12, 2022.

In pursuing the building permit enabled by the conditional use permit, the applicant realized that
complying with the fire code requirements for a mixed-use building was not financially viable and
contacted members of the Magna Council to find a solution. A meeting was held with Councilman
Prokopis and Councilman/Mayor Peay, the applicant, Magna’s attorney, the Fire Marshall, the Chief
Building Official and the Interim Senior Planner to try to find a solution. MSD staff presented a number
of different options for a way forward, some of which were choices the applicant could make to move
forward and some of which were legislative options that only the Magna Council could allow. The
meeting outcome was a consensus opinion that rezoning the property to residential was the least
objectionable and most likely path forward. The applicant has now applied for a rezone from the existing
C-2 (Commercial) Zone to R-2-6.5 (Medium Density Residential) Zone. The R-2-6.5 does allow single
family residential as a permitted use. And if approved, would provide the path forward the applicant is
seeking.

                                               PROPOSAL




                                                                                                Page 2 of 4
        Request: Zoning Map Amendment                               File #: REZ 2022-000616

The applicant has now applied for a rezone from the existing C-2 (Commercial) Zone to R-2-6.5 (Medium
Density Residential) Zone. The R-2-6.5 does allow single family residential as a permitted use. If the
rezone is approved, it would provide the path forward the applicant is seeking.

                                        PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS

General Plan:
The Magna General Plan, adopted in March of 2021, identifies this parcel as part of the Magna Main
Street Catalyst Area (Magna General Plan, pg. 53). The General Plan identifies office, entertainment,
hospitality, mixed use housing, services and restaurants as the desired uses in a walkable environment
with small local businesses and amenities. The proposed single family residential use is not listed among
the desired land uses.

The General Plan is the template that rezones should follow, but it is not mandatory that zoning comply
with the General Plan.

Zoning:
The properties along Main Street to both the east and the west are zoned C-2. If the rezone were to be
approved, this parcel would be the only property with frontage on Main Street that is not zoned C-2
between 8400 West and 8590 West. The property north located north of these Main Street Parcels is
zone R-2-6.5, a medium density residential zone that does allow single family uses. If the subject
property is rezoned to R-2-6.5, it will be an anomaly among Main Street fronting parcels, but it will not
be a true spot zone because it will match those adjacent parcels to the north. Spot zones are not illegal,
but they are usually a bad idea. In this case the adjacent R-2-6.5 zoning district may make the requested
rezone more palatable to decision makers.

                                     PUBLIC NOTICE AND COMMENT

Public notice was provided in accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-205. Public notice was mailed to
affected entities on June 10, 2022. Notice was also posted on the Utah Public Notice Website at least 10
days prior to the public hearing. No public comment has been received as of writing this report.

                                   REVIEW PROCEDURE AND CRITERIA

The Magna Township Council is the land use authority for zoning map amendments. The Township
Council cannot amend the zoning map without first submitting the amendment to the Magna Township
Planning Commission for the Planning Commission’s recommendation. The Planning Commission must
hold a public hearing and review and recommend an action to the Township Council. The Township
Council must then hold a public hearing, after which they may adopt, adopt with revisions, or reject the
zoning map amendment recommended by the Planning Commission.

A rezone can be approved if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote the public
welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public welfare, or is the best
alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit from the decision. Similarly,
a rezone can be denied if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could detrimentally impact the
public welfare.

                                                                                                    Page 3 of 4
       Request: Zoning Map Amendment                       File #: REZ 2022-000616



                               PLANNING COMMISSION ACTIONS

The Planning Commission has three options with respect to the proposed zoning map amendment:
Option 1:     Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to Council; or
Option 2:     Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments to Council; or
Option 3:     Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.

Attachments:
1. Location Map




                                                                                       Page 4 of 4
                              Attachment #1

                     Location Map and Legal Description



BEG N 89^49' E 3372.9 FT & N 88^45' E 868 FT FR S 1/4 COR SEC
19, T 1S, R 2W, SLM; N 88^45' E 50 FT; N 133.5 FT; S 88^45' W 50
FT; S 133.5 FT TO BEG. 0.15 AC M OR L.
