SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
ORDINANCE NO. 912 
 
AN ORDINANCE CREATING SECTION 10-2-17 THE NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED USE ZONE 
(NMU-1) IN THE SNYDERVILLE BASIN DEVELOPMENT CODE  
 
PREAMBLE 
 
WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated (“UCA”) §17-27a-102(b) provides that counties 
can enact all ordinances that they consider necessary or appropriate to govern, among 
other things, land uses; and, 
 
WHEREAS, Policy 2.5 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan states that language 
from the Code include clear, predictable, and measurable standards; and 
 
WHEREAS, in furtherance of this goal, §10-1-1(D) of the Summit County Code 
(“Code”) states that the intention of the county is to assure the managed, proper and 
sensitive development of land to protect and enhance these desired qualities and the 
lifestyle that exists; and,   
 
WHEREAS, the creation of the NMU-1 zone is an important component in 
promoting and reaching these goals and policies; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the requirements and performance standards in the NMU-1 zone are 
written specifically to promote the goals and objectives in the Snyderville Basin General 
Plan; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission held a public hearing on 
September 24, and August 28, 2019; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission recommended adoption 
of the amended sections of the Snyderville Basin Development Code on October 9, 
2019; and 
 
WHEREAS, the County Council held a public hearing on June 5, 2020, July 15, 
2020, August 19, 2020, September 9, 2020 and March 10, 2021; and, 
 NOW, THEREFORE, the County Council of the County of Summit, State of Utah, 
ordains as follows: 
Section 1. SNYDERVILLE BASIN DEVELOPMENT CODE The Snyderville Basin 
Development Code is amended as depicted in Exhibit A.  
 
 
Section 2. Effective Date.  This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after 
publication. 
 
 Enacted this ___ day of_____. 
 
ATTEST:     SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
                                                                                    
Kent Jones     __________________________  
Summit County Clerk    Glenn Wright, Chair 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
__________________________ 
David L. Thomas 
Chief Civil Deputy 
 
VOTING OF COUNTY COUNCIL: 
 
Councilmember Stevens  ________ 
Councilmember Robinson  ________ 
Councilmember Clyde   ________ 
Councilmember Armstrong  ________ 
Councilmember Wright  ________ 
 
 
SECTION 10-2-17 
 
Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 (NMU-1) Zone 
 
A.  Purpose: The purpose of the Neighborhood Mixed-Use 1 (NMU-1) Zone is to create 
new Development and redevelopment areas that are: 
 
• Mixed use, 
• Pedestrian-focused, and 
• Transit-oriented 
 
The desired development pattern of the NMU-1 Zone shall be facilitated through 
flexible site and community design principles that: 
 
• Result in a mix of land uses that are compatible, mutually supportive, well 
connected through a variety of transportation choices.  
• Result in convenient, safe, direct, and well-connected transit and pedestrian 
linkages, 
• Result in A reduction in the need for parking, 
• Result in Compact development that creates public spaces, including but not 
limited to plazas and other outdoor amenity areas; and 
• Result in Sustainable infrastructure and building design consistent with best 
practices. 
 
B. Uses: Uses in the NMU-1 zone are limited to the Following: 
 
Allowed Uses  
 
1. Bars, Taverns, clubs 
2. Home Based Business, Class 1 (see Section 10-8-4) 
3. Mixed Use Structure  
4. Mobile Food Business 
5. Open Space 
6. Park, Community 
7. Park, Neighborhood 
8. Recycling Facilities, Class I 
9. Solar Array, Minor 
10. Telecommunication Facilities, Co-location 
11. Trails, Community Wide 
12. Trails, Neighborhood 
13. Trailhead Parking  
14. Offices, General 
15. Retail Sales, Convenience Store 
 
 
Low Impact Uses 
  
1. Art Space with Limited Public Performances  
2. Banks and Financial Services, no Drive-Through  
3. Building and Maintenance Services 
4. Childcare Center  
5. Construction Management Office 
6. Construction Services, Contract 
7. Cultural Activity 
8. Dwelling Unit, Employee  
9. Funeral Services 
10. Healthcare Facilities 
11. Home Based Business, Class II  
12. Laundromat 
13. Offices, Medical and Dental 
14. Personal Improvement Services 
15. Personal Services 
16. Property Management Offices, Check-in 
17. Public Community Event Center 
18. Rehearsal or Teaching Studio for creative, performing and/or martial arts 
with no public performances 
19. Restaurant, Deli or Takeout (no drive through) 
20. Restaurant Full Service 
21. Retail Sales, General, less than 10,000 square feet in size 
22. Telecommunication Facilities other than Co-location or Stealth 
23. Telecommunication Facilities, Stealth 
24. Transportation Services 
25. Utility Facilities, Above Ground 
26. Utility Facilities, Major 
27. Utility Facilities, Underground 
28. Veterinarian 
 
Conditional Uses 
 
1. Churches, Schools, Institutional uses 
2. Commercial Event Center  
3. Dwelling Unit, Multi-Family 
4. Group Home 
5. Hazardous Liquids or Materials Transmission Pipelines 
6. Historic Structures, preservation of, including related Accessory 
and supporting Uses  
7. Hotel, Motel, or Inn  
8. Indoor Entertainment such as bowling alleys, skating rinks, movie theaters, 
 
performing arts center  
9. Mobile Food Court 
10. Nursing Home 
11. Office, Intensive 
12. Open Recreation Uses, Commercial 
13. Park and Ride Lot 
14. Parking Lot, Commercial 
15. Public Facilities 
16. Recreation and Athletic Facilities, Commercial 
17. Recreation and Athletic facilities, Private 
18. Recreation, Public 
19. Retail sales, General, larger than 10,000 sf less than 50,000 sf in size 
 
Temporary Uses 
 
1. Temporary Use or Structure 
 
B.  Rezoning Eligibility:  Properties must meet all the following criteria to be eligible for 
consideration for a rezone to NMU-1: 
 
1. The property(s) must be designated for mixed-use on the Snyderville Basin 
General Plan, Future Land Use Map; 
2. The property(s) must be adjacent to (or a redevelopment of) existing 
commercial, mixed-use, or Institutional/civic Development:  
3. The property(s) must be located along an existing transit system or within 
the County Master Planned Development process, receive a written 
commitment to provide service from the County Regional Transportation 
Planning Director.  
4. Property subject to the terms and conditions of any prior Development 
Agreement, Settlement Agreement or similar instrument shall remain subject 
to those terms and conditions until such time as the prior agreement is 
amended or terminated as part of the Master Planned Development 
Process..  
  
C.  Rezoning and Master Planned Development:  A proposal for a rezone to the NMU-1 
Zone shall be processed concurrently with a Master Planned Development application 
subject to Section ____ of this title. 
 
D.  Density:  The maximum Density in the NMU-1 shall be determined by the ability of 
the proposed development to meet all required development and performance 
standards and criteria set forth in this title.  
 
E.  Setbacks:  Unless otherwise permitted through the Master Planned Development 
process, setbacks in the NMU-1 Zone shall be as follows:  
 
   
 
Exterior Boundary Setback To mitigate negative impacts, preserve 
view corridors or create a compatible 
street design/streetscape, the Planning 
Commission or County Council may 
m
odify the setbacks around the exterior 
boundary of the project.  In some cases, 
that Setback may be increased to create 
an adequate buffer to adjacent Uses at 
the discretion of the County. The 
Planning Commission/County Council 
may reduce Setbacks within the project 
from those otherwise required provided 
the project meets minimum International 
Building Code and Fire Code 
requirements and advances the goals set 
forth in the General Plan. 
 
 
Front Setback 
The minimum Front Setback is twenty 
feet (20') for all Structures. The 
twenty-foot (20') Front Setback may 
be reduced to ten feet (10'), provided 
all on-Site parking is at the rear of the 
Property or is in structured parking. 
 
Front Setback if property line 
extends to the centerline of a road 
The minimum Front Setback is forty-
five feet (45') for all Structures. The 
forty-five-foot (45') Front Setback may 
be reduced to twenty feet (20'), 
provided all on-Site parking is at the 
rear of the Property or is in structured 
parking. All Structures and 
improvements, excluding driveways, 
are to be fully contained on the Lot. 
 
Side Setback 
 
The minimum side setback is ten feet 
(10’). 
 
Rear Setback 
 
The minimum Rear Setback is ten feet 
(10’). 
 
Wetland Setback 
 
40’ from delineation line as defined 
by the Army Corps of Engineers 
 
East Canyon Creek Setback 
 
150’ from centerline 
 
 
River or Perennial Stream Setback 
 
100’ from centerline 
 
Lake or Natural Pond Setback 
 
50’ from High Water Mark 
 
Designated Roadway Setback, 
Highways 224, 40, 248, and 
Interstate 80  
 
100’ from the edge of the Right of 
Way 
 
 
Frontage Road Setback, including, 
but not limited to Kilby Road, 
Rasmussen Road, Bitner Road, 
North Pace Frontage Road, and US-
40 Frontage Road 
 
 
60’ from the edge of the Right of Way 
 
 
On a Corner Lot, one minimum Front Setback and one minimum side Setback is 
required with the following provisions: 
 
 a.  Any frontage with a driveway leading to a garage or Parking 
Space shall have a Front Setback. 
 
b.  On any Corner Lot, a clear view area must be maintained. This 
is a triangular area formed by the property lines abutting the 
street and a line connecting them at points twenty-five (25) 
feet from the intersection of the property lines. No obstruction 
to view more than three (3) feet in Height shall be placed in 
the clear view area, including walls, Fences, Structures, signs, 
trees, shrubs, or hedges. When topography presents a clear 
view, the area shall be graded to provide visual clearance. 
 
F.  Height:  Unless otherwise permitted through the Master Planned Development 
(MPD) process, the maximum building height in the NMU-1 Zone shall be forty-five feet 
(45’).  
 
Exception: The County Council may grant a height exception up to a maximum of 
60 feet to accommodate affordable housing and/or structured parking through 
the MPD process.  
 
For any Building sharing a common property line with a Detached Single-Family 
Dwelling Unit, the maximum height is limited to forty-five feet (45') and may not 
be increased through any process. 
 
 
Step back Requirement: Floors rising above thirty-five feet (35') in height shall be 
stepped back fifteen (15) horizontal feet from the building foundation at grade 
for building elevations that are facing a public street, public trail, or public open 
space. This step back does not apply to balconies on buildings with floors rising 
above thirty-five feet (35') in height. 
 
G.  Performance Standards: In addition to compliance with all Master Planned 
Development criteria set forth in Section _____ of this title, the following performance 
criteria shall apply to the NMU-1 Zone. 
 
1. Open Space:  Unless otherwise approved through the Master Planned 
Development process, all Master Planned Developments in the NMU-1 Zone 
shall provide twenty five percent (25%) of the project area for outdoor space, 
plaza. pathways, and/or trails and open Space. 
 
2. Mixed Use:  Unless otherwise approved through the MPD process, all Master 
Planned Developments in the NMU-1 Zone shall have a minimum of three land 
uses (residential, commercial, office, recreation, civic, etc.) integrated into the 
project area.  A range of different uses along the street, as well as diversity in 
building design and scale is encouraged wherever practicable.  
 
3. Limitation on Direct Retail Sales:  Unless otherwise approved through the 
Master Planned Development process, no single retail use may exceed 50,000 
square feet. 
 
4. Single-Story Commercial Building Standards Unless otherwise approved through 
the Master Planned Development process, no single-story commercial structures 
greater than 1,000 square feet are permitted it the NMU-1 Zone. 
 
5. Access to Public Transportation: All Master Planned Developments in the NMU-
1 Zone shall provide facilities that substantially facilitate, enhance, and support 
the use of alternative public transportation options such as transit services, 
neighborhood circulators, employee shuttles, car share, bicycle share, and 
bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure.  Unless otherwise permitted through the 
Master Planned Development process, all Master Planned Developments in the 
NMU-1 Zone shall provide a Transit Center, transportation stops and/or other 
improvements necessary to mitigate the impacts of the Development.  Unless 
otherwise permitted through the Master Planned Development process, all 
Transit Centers shall include a building with a waiting area, restrooms, bicycle 
lockers, and bike racks.  All transportation stops shall include shelters and bicycle 
racks to mitigate the impacts of the Development.   
 
6. Neighborhood Connectivity:  All Master Planned Developments in the NMU-1 
Zone shall provide pedestrian and bicycle linkages within the project area as well 
 
as connections to adjacent/off site sidewalk, pathway, and trail systems. 
Wherever possible, the Developer shall separate pedestrian and bicycle linkages 
from vehicular areas without disrupting the pedestrian way. Bicycle parking, 
storage, and bicycle racks consistent with the Summit County Bicycle Parking 
Standards, Guidelines and Regulations shall be provided. 
 
7. The Public Realm:  All Master Planned Developments in the NMU-1 Zone shall 
provide a project-specific Public Realm Plan for all areas to which the public has 
access including but not limited to streets, plazas, parking areas, sidewalks, 
pathways, and associated green spaces.  The design of all utilities, infrastructure, 
and signs/wayfinding shall be included with the plan. 
 
8. Parking:  The following parking requirements shall be met. When calculations of 
the number of required off street parking spaces result in a fractional number, 
any fraction of 0.5 or larger shall be rounded up to the next higher whole 
number. 
 
A. Residential Uses: Unless otherwise modified by the Master Planned 
Development process, residential parking shall comply with Section 10-4-9 of 
this title.  
 
B. Non-Residential Uses:  The base parking ratio shall be three and one-half (3.5) 
off street parking spaces per each one thousand (1,000) square feet of 
nonresidential space. 
 
Exception: Parking greater than or less than 3.5 off street parking spaces per 
1,000 square feet of non-residential area may be permitted by the Summit 
County Council as part of a Master Planned Development only after the applicant 
submits a parking study for comparable uses which demonstrates that a 
higher/lower demand can be anticipated.
 
 
a. When reviewing a request to exceed or reduce the overall parking 
requirement the County Council shall consider:  
 
i. Structured parking. 
ii. Traffic patterns in the area and how the proposed parking plan 
will affect them. 
iii. Ingress and egress issues, and locations and whether they will 
affect traffic patterns. 
iv. Requiring spaces for van pooling  
v. Carpool spaces 
vi. Covered bike parking  
vii. Site location as it relates to transit. 
viii. Shared Parking 
 
ix. Other conclusions from the Parking Study   
x. The change in parking shall not result in adverse impacts to public 
walkways, plazas, or other pedestrian circulation areas.  
 
C.  Parking Design: To minimize the potential adverse visual impacts of exterior 
parking, the following requirements shall apply to all parking areas: 
 
1. Unless otherwise permitted through the Master Planned Development 
process, off-street parking areas shall be located to the rear of the 
building and be designed to facilitate and optimize the traffic and 
pedestrian flow of the development. Single purpose uses exceeding 
10,000 square feet shall be permitted to design parking to the front 
façade provided exterior parking lots, parking structures are hidden from 
view from most primary streets and crossings serving the project and do 
not create unsafe pedestrian conditions.  
2. Parking structures shall be designed to have the appearance of horizontal 
storied buildings that reflect the character of adjacent buildings.   
3. Storefronts shall be located on the street level and designed to create 
street scape. shall be readily accessible by pedestrian/bicycle linkages 
and associated facilities. 
4. Structured parking design and space count shall consider project access, 
circulation, convenience, and practicality and be required to conform to 
the parking guidelines in the NMU-1 Zone. Design shall locate curb cuts 
away from the main thoroughfare.   
5. Developers shall utilize innovative parking reduction techniques such as 
shared parking, structured parking, smaller stalls, car stackers and valet 
parking.  
6. Bicycle parking shall be provided. Bicycle parking shall be consistent with 
the Summit County Bicycle Parking Standards, Guidelines and 
Regulations.   
 
9. Architecture and Building Construction: The project architecture shall foster a 
distinct neighborhood character. Designs shall be, sensitive to the landscape and 
topography of the site. While new structures are not required to mimic historic 
structures or themed designs, buildings in the NMU-1 Zone should reflect local 
and regional practices regarding materials, and roof forms. Streetscapes should 
respond to the human, pedestrian scale rather than the automobile. 
Architecture that relies on standardized corporate designs, mechanical climate 
control and automobile accessibility is strongly discouraged.  
 
10. Sustainability: Projects shall be socially, economically, and environmentally 
sustainable. Buildings should be designed, oriented, and constructed to 
maximize the potential for improved efforts regarding: 
 
 
a. connectivity  
b. energy efficiency 
c. on-site energy generation 
d. solar orientation, natural light, and ventilation 
e. thermal and light reduction 
f. sustainable materials  
g. water conservation landscaping such as:    
 
i. drought tolerant plant species 
ii. native plant species  
iii. xeriscaping 
iv. time of day watering; and 
v. rain or moisture sensors on irrigation systems 
 
11. Site topography: The project shall be designed to incorporate existing site 
topography into its design features and to practice sustainable excavation and 
site work that minimizes import and export of materials. Final project grades and 
elevations may be established as part of the development application and 
determined through the MPD process. 
 
12. Affordable Housing:  
 