 
  
60 North MainP.O. Box 128Coalville, UT 84017 
Phone (435) 336-3118, 615-3118, 783-4351 x3118Fax (435) 336-3046rmilliner@summitcounty.org 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
STAFF REPORT 
 
To:   Summit County Council    
From:   Ray Milliner, County Planner 
Date of Meeting: May 25, 2022 
Type of Item:  Code Amendment – Public Hearing Possible Action 
Process:  Legislative 
 
 
RECOMMENDATION:  Staff recommends that the Summit County Council review the proposed 
language to amend Chapter 10-4-20: Landscaping Regulations in the Snyderville Basin conduct a 
public hearing and adopt the attached ordinance per the findings of fact and conclusions of law 
in this staff report. 
 
Proposal 
The purpose of the amendments is to bring the landscaping regulations in Chapter 10-4-20 of the 
Development Code up to date with current best practices.   
 
Background 
Recently, staff has been directed by the Summit County Council to rewrite the Snyderville Basin 
Development Code Landscape Regulations. Specific direction was to make the new language 
apply to all new development in the County (currently landscape rules apply only to commercial 
development), and to make the regulations water wise.  
 
The Planning Commission reviewed the language on August 24, November 9, 2021, and again 
on March 22, 2022. As part of their review, the Commission had a discussion with the director 
of Mountain Regional Water and the County Sustainability Manager to address Commission 
concerns and answer any questions.  On March 22, the Commission forwarded a positive 
recommendation to the County Council.  
 
On April 27, 2022, the County Council reviewed the proposed language and conducted a public 
hearing. At the hearing, comments from the public were received and direction from the 
Council was given. 
 
 
Code Amendments     
Ordinance Highlights 
 
At the April 27, 2022, public hearing, the Council directed staff to make several changes to the 
document. Specifically, they directed staff to simplify the language and make it more user 
friendly. Based on that direction, staff has made the following changes: 
 
1. Amended and simplified the submittal requirements.   
2. Expanded turf limitations to include prohibition of turf on slopes greater than 15%, 
prohibited turf on small patches of ground less than 8 feet wide.  
3. Simplified the standards, eliminated requirements for seed weight and such.  
4. Inserted energy conservation language. Language encourages placement of trees for 
shading of home but not in areas where solar panels are located. 
5. Inserted preservation of significant native vegetation language. Requires preservation of 
large areas of native vegetation such as gambrel oak groves or mature trees.    
6. Inserted prohibition of turf in parking lot landscaping areas. 
7. Simplified irrigation system requirements.  
 
Analysis 
Section 10-7-3 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code states that whenever there is 
initiated an amendment to the Code, it must be reviewed by the Planning Commission who will 
deliver a recommendation to the County Council. The County Council, after holding a public 
hearing, shall approve, approve with modifications, or deny the amendment according to the 
following criteria. 
 
Criteria 1: The amendment shall be consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the 
general plan. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Chapter 5 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan States: 
 
“Policy 5.17: Irrigation: Promote advanced irrigation techniques, including the 
use of wastewater on golf courses and other large, irrigated areas.” 
 
The proposed amendments to the landscaping regulations are designed to promote 
sustainable land uses and promote better design throughout the Snyderville Basin.  
 
Criteria 2: The amendment shall not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses 
of properties nearby. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The Summit County Council has identified the update of the landscaping 
regulations as a priority for the upcoming year. The purpose of the regulations is to 
eliminate excessive water use in both residential and commercial landscaping.  
 
Code Amendments     
Criteria 3: The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis:  The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the 
proposed amendment to the uses to which they have been restricted.  
 
Criteria 4: The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which 
will unduly affect nearby property. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: The proposed Code language does not remove any existing restrictions that 
would unduly affect nearby property owners. They are designed to enhance the existing 
restrictions and bring them up to date with current best practices.   
 
Criteria 5:  The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one 
property owner or developer. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Staff finds no evidence that these regulations would constitute a special favor 
or create a favorable circumstance for a single property owner.  
 
Criteria 6: The amendment will promote the public health, safety, and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. COMPLIES 
 
Analysis: Everyone needs water to survive. The rules will protect and preserve Summit 
County’s water resources for current and future users. Staff finds that there is a need to 
update the existing landscape ordinance to recognize best practices and the benefits of 
sustainable landscaping while providing clear direction for its installation. 
 
Recommendation 
 
Staff recommends that the Summit County Council review the proposed language to amend 
Chapter 10-4-20: Landscaping Regulations in the Snyderville Basin conduct a public hearing and 
adopt the attached ordinance per the findings of fact and conclusions of law in this staff report. 
 
Findings of Fact 
 
1. The Summit County Council has identified the update of the landscaping regulations as a 
priority for the upcoming year.  
2. The purpose of the regulations is to eliminate excessive water use in both residential 
and commercial landscaping.  
3. The goal of Chapter 5 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan is updating the landscape 
regulations to allow for the best practices that allow for water wise landscaping. 
4. Water is a limited resource in Summit County, so designing the landscape to efficiently 
use water is important. 
Code Amendments     
5. Conserving water in a landscaped area can be accomplished by selecting low water use 
plants, designing, and scheduling irrigation systems efficiently, grouping plants 
according to their water requirements, and using hardscaping materials (patios, stone 
paths, decks, etc.) appropriately to reduce the area requiring irrigation. 
6. The proposed landscape regulations are designed to prevent the unnecessary waste of 
our water resources. 
7. The Snyderville Basin Planning Commission conducted a public hearing on March 22, 
2022, and forwarded a positive recommendation to the County Council.  
 
Conclusions of Law: 
 
1. The amendment is consistent with the goals, objectives, and policies of the General 
Plan. 
2. The amendment will not permit the use of land that is not consistent with the uses of 
properties nearby. 
3. The amendment will not permit suitability of the properties affected by the proposed 
amendment for the uses to which they have been restricted. 
4. The amendment will not permit the removal of the then existing restrictions which will 
unduly affect nearby property. 
5. The amendment will not grant special favors or circumstances solely for one property 
owner or developer. 
6. The amendment will promote the public health, safety, and welfare better than the 
existing regulations for which the amendment is intended to change. 
 
Exhibits 
 
Exhibit A.  Proposed Ordinance with Language  
  
Code Amendments     
 
SUMMIT COUNTY, UTAH 
ORDINANCE NO. _____ 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE SNYDERVILLE BASIN 
DEVELOPMENT CODE SECTION 10-4-20: GENERAL REGULATIONS, LANDSCAPING 
  
PREAMBLE 
 
WHEREAS, Utah Code Annotated (“UCA”) §17-27a-102(b) provides that counties can enact all 
ordinances that they consider necessary or appropriate to govern, among other things, 
landscaping; and, 
 
WHEREAS, the goal of Chapter 5 of the Snyderville Basin General Plan is to encourage 
community site design techniques that promote sustainable land use practices by updating the 
landscaping regulations to allow for best practices that allow for the preservation of Summit 
County’s limited water resources; and 
 
WHEREAS, In furtherance of this goal, §10-1-1 of the Snyderville Basin Development Code 
provides that The Snyderville Basin General Plan was developed to was developed “to ensure 
that the resort and mountain character of the basin is to be embraced and protected, while 
suburban development patterns, which erode the unique character of the basin, is discouraged 
and, to the extent possible, prohibited.” and,   
 
WHEREAS, Summit County is in the midst of a sever and unprecedented drought; and 
 
WHEREAS, because water is a limited resource in Summit County designing the landscape to 
conserve water is of great importance; and 
 
WHEREAS, Conserving water in a landscaped area can be accomplished by selecting low water 
use plants, designing, and scheduling irrigation systems efficiently, grouping plants according to 
their water requirements, and using hardscaping materials appropriately to reduce the area 
requiring irrigation; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission held a public hearing on March 22, 2022; 
and 
 
WHEREAS, the Snyderville Basin Planning Commission recommended adoption of the amended 
sections of the Snyderville Basin Development Code on March 22, 2022; and 
 
WHEREAS, the Summit County Council held a public hearing on April 27, and May 25, 2022 and, 
 
Code Amendments     
 NOW, THEREFORE, the County Council of the County of Summit, State of Utah, ordains 
as follows: 
 
Section 1. SNYDERVILLE BASIN DEVELOPMENT CODE The Snyderville Basin Development 
Code is amended as depicted in Exhibit A.  
 
Section 2. Effective Date.  This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after publication. 
 
 Enacted this ___ day of _______, 2022. 
 
 
ATTEST:     SUMMIT COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
                                                                                    
Evelyn Furse      __________________________  
Summit County Clerk    Chris Robinson, Chair 
 
 
APPROVED AS TO FORM 
 
 
__________________________ 
David L. Thomas 
Chief Civil Deputy 
 
 
  
VOTING OF COUNTY COUNCIL: 
 
Councilmember Stevens  ________ 
Councilmember Robinson  ________ 
Councilmember Wright  ________ 
Councilmember Armstrong ________ 
Councilmember Clyde   ________ 
 
Code Amendments     
EXHIBIT A 
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 4 
10-4-20: LANDSCAPING: 
 
Purpose: The purpose of the landscape regulations is to ensure the quality and character of the 
landscape in the Snyderville Basin reflects the high desert nature of the area by utilizing 
drought tolerant plants and water conservation techniques. Landscapes should protect and 
enhance the community's environmental, economic, recreational, and aesthetic resources by 
promoting efficient use of water, reducing water waste, and establishing a structure for the 
design, installation, and maintenance of water efficient landscapes. 
 
Applicability: 
    
New Development: All new development requiring a land use permit from the County shall 
comply with the provisions of this section. 
 
Existing Development: All projects that increase the square footage of the footprint of an 
existing building or the parking requirement by twenty percent (20%) or more shall comply with 
the provisions of this section. 
 
Exemptions: The following are exempt from the requirements of this section unless otherwise 
specified: 
 
1. Agricultural operations as defined by the State 
2. Cemeteries. 
3. Parks, athletic fields, and playgrounds. 
4. Ecological restoration projects that do not require a permanent irrigation system; and 
5. Similar uses and activities as determined by the County Manager in consultation with 
the Community Development Director or designee. 
 
Landscape Cost Estimate and Security: For Multi-Family Dwelling Unit, commercial, industrial, 
and institutional landscapes, a landscape cost estimate shall be submitted along with a security 
in the form of a bond or escrow account for one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the total 
cost of the estimate. The security is to ensure the proper installation and maintenance of the 
landscape and irrigation system. The bond or escrow may be reduced by an amount deemed 
appropriate when the Community Development Director determines the landscape has been 
adequately installed. This determination shall be based on a certificate of substantial 
completion completed by the contractor or landscape designer/landscape architect designer 
who prepared the plan and shall indicate the landscape was installed correctly with healthy 
plants. The remaining amount shall not be released for at least two (2) years or until the 
Community Development Director determines the landscape is established. The landscape cost 
estimate and security may be submitted in conjunction with a development improvement 
agreement between the applicant or owner and the County Manager. 
 
Landscape plan:   A landscape plan shall be prepared, submitted, and subject to approval for 
all applicable development projects in accordance with the procedures and requirements set 
forth in this Title . All changes to landscape plans shall be subje ct to approval by the 
Community Development Director prior to installation of any landscape improvements. The 
landscape plan shall include the following information:  
1. Location and identification of all proposed landscape areas . 
2. Location and identification of all significant native vegetation.   
3. Preliminary summary data indicating the landscape area (in square feet) of on -site, 
right-of-way, and parking lot landscaping.  
4. Location of existing and proposed trees, shrubs, and other landscape materi als and 
improvements. 
5. Notes, tables, and graphic symbols adequately showing the intent of the proposed 
plans, and any other information indicating how the plans will comply with this 
Chapter. 
6. Quantity and size of all proposed plantings . 
7. Location of all pro posed stormwater detention and retention areas . 
8. Irrigation plan, indicating the layout and details of the irrigation system  (see section B 
below).  
  
 Standards: All developments subject to this section shall comply with the following standards: 
 
1. Turf Restrictions: 
 
a. In Single Family or Two-family developments, the turf area shall not exceed 
___% of the total landscaped area. 
b. In Multi-Family, Commercial, industrial, and institutional landscapes the turf area 
shall not exceed ___% of the total landscaped area, outside of active recreation 
areas. 
c. Turf may only be used where it is functional: These areas include play areas, 
areas with foot traffic and areas needing noise or dust mitigation.  
d. Turf species with lower water requirements shall be used. Lists of plants that 
satisfy these requirements and that are available locally may be obtained from 
the Community Development Director.  
e. The use of turf in narrow, small, or oddly shaped areas less than eight feet (8’) 
wide, that are difficult to irrigate is prohibited.  
f. The use of turf on slopes greater than 15% is prohibited. 
g. Turf shall be irrigated separate from other landscape areas.  
 
2. Environmental Considerations : The landscape plan shall demonstrate that plants 
are placed in the optimum location for water conservation,  soil stabilization, and 
erosion control . 
3. Landscape Zones : Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together.  
Areas landscaped with high water use plants shall be, separated from those with 
low and very low water use.  
4. Critical Lands : Existing plants within critical land areas as defined in section 10 -4-3 
of this chapter, shall be disturbed only at the Community Development Director's 
discretion. If slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) are disturbed, t he area shall 
be landscaped with deep rooting, water conserving plants for erosion control and 
soil stabilization.  
5. Required Plants: All landscapes shall use plants identified as being water wise or low 
water plants. Lists of plants that satisfy these requirements and that are available 
locally may be obtained from the Community Development Director . 
6. Plant Substitutions: Landscaping shall be installed consistent with approved planting 
plans, but plant substitutions may be made provided that the substituted plants are 
of a similar plant type (bush for bush, tree for tree, etc.) and have a similar water 
need as the plant originally specified in the approved landscape plan. 
7. Soil Amendment/Preparation: Where appropriate, the use of organic soil 
amendments or additives, such as aged compost, are encouraged.  
8. Mulch: Mulch shall be installed and maintained at a minimum depth of three inches 
to four inches (3"- 4"). Fiber barriers and plastic sheeting that are not porous to air 
and water are prohibited. 
9. Water Features: Unless it is a natural lake, pond, or stream, recirculating systems 
shall be used for all water features such as fountains, ponds, reflecting pools, and 
other similar water features. 
10. Preservation Of Existing Vegetation: To the extent possible, significant native 
vegetation shall be maintained on Site and protected during construction. When 
allowed to be removed, based on an approved development permit, the native 
vegetation shall be replaced with landscaping similar in type. To ensure survivability 
replacement plantings may be smaller sized and slightly denser than the original. 
The Community Development Director may grant exceptions if it is found that 
replacement is impossible or would require excessive amounts of water.   
11. Energy Conservation: When planting trees, take the following into consideration: 
 
a. To maximize the utility and production of solar panels, trees should be 
planted in locations that will not shade or obstruct them on site or on 
adjacent properties. 
b. To take advantage of potential summer shade and winter sun to heat or 
cool the building, most deciduous trees should be placed along the south, 
east and west sides of the building.  
c. To help insulate a building from cold and snow, most evergreen trees 
should be placed on the north side. 
  
12. Hardscaped Areas:  
 
a. Landscape features such as decks, patios and walkways shall be constructed of 
permeable materials. Nonpermeable materials are prohibited.  
b. Permeable Asphalt, pavers, concrete, aggregate, and grass paving are all allowed 
materials.  
c. Loose aggregates like gravel, stones and pebbles may be used as a replacement 
for traditional landscape areas.  
 
13. Parking Area Landscaping: 
 
a. Internal landscape shall equal at least fifteen percent (15%) of the total 
parking area. 
b. The use of turf within an internal landscape area is prohibited.  
c. Landscape islands shall be a minimum of nine feet (9') in width and shall be 
landscaped with plants no more than four feet (4') in height or high canopy 
trees. 
d. Internal landscape shall be located so that pedestrians are not required to 
cross landscaped areas without pathways to reach building entrances from 
parked cars. This should be achieved through proper orientation of islands 
and spaces. 
e. Bioretention systems or other sustainable natural drainage systems which 
reduce the stormwater runoff created by the development and which 
promote infiltration of the generated stormwater into the subsurface are 
encouraged. Such systems include stormwater planter strips, infiltration 
swales or trenches, stormwater curb extensions, rain gardens, etc. 
Exceptions to the standards in these landscape regulations may be granted 
to accommodate the design of such systems.  
14. Golf Courses: All golf courses shall participate in the Audubon International's 
signature program or be designed and managed according to the Audubon signature 
program or a similar certification process. Wastewater reuse is strongly encouraged 
as allowed by the Utah code, as amended. 
 
Irrigation System Requirements . 
 
1. Automatic Controller. All irrigation systems shall include an electric automatic 
controller with multiple programs, multiple repeat cycle capabilities to reduce 
runoff on slopes and soils with slow infiltration rates, and a flexible calendar 
program. All controllers shall be capable of utilizing an automatic rain shut -off 
device, and the ability to adjust run times based on a percentage of maximum ET0.  
2. Irrigation Zones and Use . Each zone shall irrigate a landscape with similar site, 
slope and soil conditions and plant materials with similar watering needs.  
3. Tree Irrigation . Drip emitters or bubblers shall be provided for each tree not 
planted in a turf area.  
4. Time of irrigation . Zones with spray or stream sprinklers shall not be scheduled to 
operate between  the hours of ten a.m. to seven p.m. to  reduce water loss from 
wind and evaporation.  
 
Prohibition on Restrictive Covenants Requiring Uniform Plant Material Irrigated with Spray 
Irrigation: Any Homeowners Association governing documents, such as bylaws, operating rules, 
covenants, conditions, and restrictions that govern the operation of a common interest 
development, are void and unenforceable if they: 
 
1. Require turf that exceed ____% of the landscaped area; or 
2. Prohibit, or include conditions that have the effect of prohibiting, the use of 
water-conserving plants as a group; or 
3. Have the effect of prohibiting or restricting compliance with this ordinance or other 
water conservation measures. 
 
Penalty: Any violation of any provisions of these regulations shall be a Class C misdemeanor, 
subject to penalty as provided for in section 1-4-1 of this Code. Each day a violation of these 
regulations continues shall constitute a separate offense, unless otherwise prohibited. The 
County Attorney reserves the right to enforce these regulations using any of the remedies 
provided for in the Utah Code, as amended.  
 
 
  